EUGENE [UNESCO

"l have tried to exteriorize the anxiety of my characters through objects; to
translate the action into visual terms ... to play with words. I have thus tried to extend
the language of the theatre. Is this to be condemned? " asks Eugene Ionesco.

When he ﬁrst started to write, the bourgeois sensibility, attuned to expecting and getting - deﬁnite messages in familiar codes, rejected his experimentation. Over
the years, however. Ionesco has made even his sternest critics realize that his theatre,
farfrom being a polite, glib vehicle of ideas, is shock therapy - a violent exaggeration
which has the power to jolt the audience out oftheir soporiﬁc neutrality.

Underlying the layers of civility, Ionesco seems to say, are nothingness and
apathy. Perhaps it is this that results in the obsessive use of objects on the stage:
eggs in The Future is in Eggs, furniture in The New Tenant, cups in Victims of

Duty, and of course chairs in The Chairs. They seem to reduce man to size even as
they act as an externalization of his burdened consciousness.
lonesco's plays are unreal pageants of fantasy, nightmare, comedy and
poetry, with the cutting edge of social and cultural criticism. Language has
undergone radical surgery at his hands, its innards of cliche’s and platitudes stand
thoroughly exposed. The breakdown of language is linked, too, to a refusal of the
"theatre of ideas", for when communication itself is impossible it is ridiculous to
assume that contradictory points of view can settle down in a‘ comfortable dialectic

relationship.

The construction of lonesco's plays is marked by progressive anguish and
accelerated despair. Laughter serves as a mechanism of release, lending an
ambiguous quality to the looming ﬁnality. Hence his refusal to characterize his plays
the
with conventional labels: "comical drama" and "tragic farce" are more
descriptions he fancies.

who
There is not a little irony in the fact that Ionesco, a Rumanian immigrant
whose literary
spent the major part of his life attempting to sink roots on French soil,
dear, should have
reputation was founded on his destruction of all that society holds
mie F'rancaise.
been admitted, in 1971, to that bastion of the Establishment, the Acadé
e ..."
Perhaps it was only appropriate. As the French say, "Plus ca chang

