THE CHAIRS

A circular motif runs through The Chairs. Apart from the fact that the action
is set in a lighthouse, the text itself abounds in references to it. The play is suspended,
as it were, in time and place, but this very timeless quality creates an abundance of
images, not least that ofthe Wheel of Time.
While writing the play, Ionesco noted: "To express the void by means of
language, gesture, acting and props. To express absence. To express regret and
remorse. The unreality ofthe real. Original chaos. "
The characters in the play, though their age is deﬁned physically, seem
trapped in a time-machine whose circuitry has gone haywire. For the past, the
present and the future coalesce.
The lines between the real, the imagined and the invented are often blurred.
Death approaches inexorably but we cannot tell if it is a ﬁnalin or a commencement;
and, as in all of Ionesco's plays, objects assume a life of their own - neutral, comic
and horrific in turn.
"At certain moments, ” wrote Ionesco in the note he prepared for the play's
1952 production, "the world apppear's to me emptied of meaning, reality seems
unreal. It is this feeling of unreality, the search for some essential reality, nameless
andforgotten - and outside it I do not feel I exist - that l have tried to express through
my characters, who drift incoherently, having nothing apart from their anguish, their
remorse, their failures, the vacuity of their lives. Human beings saturated in
meaninglessness cannot be anything but grotesque, their sufferings cannot be
anything but derisively tragic. "

Ionesco, we would do well to remember, is no prophet of doom, but rather a
sort of mystic jester, juggling with all our pet fetishes and fantasies, standing things

on end, turning the world topsy turvy, only to prove that it is indeed right side up. In
this task he is helped by the fact that he, more than any other writer of "absurd
drama" exploits the destructive effect of humour and the essentially nonsensical
character of language.

L

"Contemporary drama," notes Ionesco, "is almost exclusively psychologicai.
social, cerebral or poetic. It is ametaphysical. The Chairs is an attemp
t to push
beyond the present frontiers of drama. " Our translation of The Chairs,
attempts.
however humbly, to recapture this wonderful inventive quality, without falling
into the
trap of cultural specificity.

