JEAN GENET

Born in Paris in 1910, Genet was abandoned by his mother almost
immediately. He spent his childhood amongst the peasants of Morvan. Accused of
stealing when he was sixteen, he was conﬁned to the remand home at Mettray. "I
suffered," he wrote, "I felt the cruel shame of being tonsured, draped in that
unspeakable costume, consigned to that vile place...To every accusation against me,
however unfounded, I would say, ’Yes!’.. .I felt in me the need to become what I had
been accused of being ."

Mettray was to harden him. Here he became a thief, he discovered and
revelled in his homosexuality. Here he heard legends about the great criminals in the
prisons of France, in the penal colonies at Devil's Island and Cayenne, echoes of
which are to be heard in Deathwatch and The Maids. Here he dreamed of becoming
their equal, ofrising in the hierarchy of crime. Between 1931 and 1942, he drifted all
over Europe, going in and out ofprison for a number ofoffences.

His ﬁrst poem, written in Fresnes prison in 1942 and published without
n
mentioning the poet ’s name or origin, created a ripple in the literary world. Betwee
the Rose.
1942 and 1945, Genet wrote Our Lady of the Flowers and The Miracle of
re-created
They reflected the passions of the author: prison fantasies, a fancifully
of legend and
past, a sordid and contemptible present transported into the realm
the outcasts,
myth. Against the Establishment which had condemned him, he set
s philosophy
thieves, criminals - a veritable epic work of evil. From this arose Genet'
also perfect equals.
of the essential "sameness" of things: perfect opposites are
d in his plays, which
Hence, too, the recurrent mirror motif of his works, more marke
were written between 1947 and 1961.

after his plays were
Genet was to become known to a wider public only
t and Roger Blin, and after
produced by such popular actor-directors as Louis Jouve
Genet - Actor and Martyr. The
Jean-Paul Sartre wrote his monumental work, Saint

and playwright regurgitating
realization grew that, far from being a marginal poet
r beyond compare. However,
the sordid details of his criminal life, he was a write
nued until his death in 1985 to
shunning thefavours of the Establishment, Genet conti
ed - Arabs in the Algerian war, the
champion the cause of the wretched and the damn
ns.
Black Panthers in America, the displaced Palestinia
“If the novelist can deal with any
Till the end, Genet remained true to himself:
obtain diversity, the poet is subject to the
subject, always with rigorous precision, and

him all those who are marked by evil
exigencies of his heart, which attracts towards
my books resemble one another...My
and by misfortune, and all the characters of
ext to show a soldier in blue, an angel
books will never be anything more than a pret
of dice or knucklebones in a sombre and
and a Negro ﬁaternizing, playing a game
bright prison. "

