SAMUEL BECKETT

y of Dublin, Samuel
Born on 13th April 1906 to a pious Protestant famil
hood. He was a brilliant
Beckett went to Portora Royal School, after a happy child
n, followed, marked by his
student at Portora. Studies at Trinity College, Dubli
1927, he taught at
discovery of French literature. After graduating in December
English at the Ecole
Belfast for two years before leaving for Paris, where he taught
- Our Exagmination
Normale Supérieure. This period saw his ﬁrstforays into writing

short story
, Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress, the
e a close
Assumption, and the poem Whoroscope, amongst others. Beckett becam
,
friend of James Joyce and made his first contributions to the literary journal
in
Transition, an association that was to endure. After returning to Trinity College
1930, as teacher of French, Beckett spent his time reading and composing his major
essay on Proust. Early the next year, he wrote and acted in a parody of Corneille's
Le Cid, entitled The Kid.
As he began to see more ofhis poems and essays in print, Beckett resigned his
post and aﬁer travelling extensively in Germany and Italy, decided to live in Paris.
He eked out a living doing translations, noteworthy amongst them his rendition of
Rimbaud, Eluard, Breton and Crevel. His success with his own creative work was
practically nonexistent, though that did not deter him from writing regularly: More
Pricks than Kicks, Echo’s Bones and Other Precipitates, Murphy, the poem Oofa'sh,
and the translation ofMutphy.

When World War II broke out, Beckett was in Ireland. He rushed back to
France, preferring "France at war to Ireland in peace". Soon, he became part of the
Resistance. A few hours before the Gestapo raided his home, he managed to escape
beyond the line of demarcation. And there he remained until the end of the war,
agricultural labourer by day, writer by night. Watt was written in this period, the last
of his novels in English. After returning to Paris in 1946, Beckett wrote steadily,
mainly in French: the poem, Saint L6, Mercier et Camier, Premier Amour,
Eleuthéria,
Molloy,
Malone
Dies,
Waiting
for
Godot,
The
Unnameable..Recognition of Beckett’s literary worth had slowly begun to grow.
especially among the initiated.
It was the outcry following the first production of Waiting for Godot (on 5th
January 1953, at the Theatre Babylone, in Paris, under the direction of Roger Blin).

which was to make his name familiar to the general public. After that. there was no
looking back. Godot became a cult play, Beckett's other works began to attract a
wider public and prizes and awards were heaped upon him (The International

Publishers’ Prize in 1961, the Nobel Prize in 1969). Beckett continued to write until

well into the 'seventies. He remained a reclusive and aloofﬁgure, content to read.
write and publish until his death in Paris, in December 1989.

