WAITING FOR GODOT

Since it premiered in 1953, probably no other work of drama has attracted as
much attention, adulation and approbrium as Waiting for Godot. It has been played
in every conceivable kind of theatre, in ﬁont of every conceivable kind of audience,
and has provoked every possible kind of reaction. Learned dons have pared through
the play, vainly attempting to discern some kind of "relevance", some "message for
humanity ": the labels affixed to it range ﬁom "nihilistic" to "existential" to "defeatist"
to the catch-all "absurd". The best riposte to this sterile academic exercise is from
Beckett himself. In his essay on Joyce he writes, "Must we twist the neck of a certain
system in order to stuﬁ’ it into contemporary pigeon holes for the satisfaction of the
peddlers of analogies? " Beckett described the play as a "tragicomedy". Trite though
it may seem, in the context of Godot that term attains its real dimensions: here we
oscillate in a constant, yet fluid and uneasy, equilibrium between the comic and the
tragic.

What are we to make of the two tramps? They wait. They wait for a
comes,
Mr.Godot. But they cannot just wait, for then "Nothing happens, nobody
through
nobody goes, it's awful!" And so they chatter, banter and canter their way
we exist. "
the act of waiting. "We always ﬁnd something...to give us the impression
or not they
The "tragicomedy" then lies perhaps in the unresolved question ofwhether
are aware oftheir situation. Are they clowns or seers? 0r both?

we have
As opposed to these two free spirits, unfettered by any notion of time,
the spectacle they
the other pair of Pozzo and Lucky. They t00 are performers, but
offer is circumscribed by power, by knowledge, by time.
s in them
The tramps intuitively perceive their own mortality. But this induce
by "..another ...just
no more than the recognition that their shoes will be ﬁlled
happy. " For Pozzo,
as..as...as me, ‘ but with smaller feet, and they'll make him
tormenting me with
however, the knowledge is "abominable": "Have you not done
light gleams an instant,
your accursed time? .. .They give birth astride of a grave, the
then it’s night once more. "

human dilemma In theforty years between the play 's premiere and now, this
been aggravated by human
"astride of a grave, and a difficult birth" - has if anything
objects, of words, of images;
excesses. We are swamped by surfeit, a surfeit of
cretinised into a state of life-in-death.

e. In the exertions
In that context, Waiting for Godot assumes new signiﬁcanc
d to "puke their puke of a life
of the two tramps, those dregs of humanity condemne
, at this moment of time, all
away here” but conscious of the fact that "at this place
of themselves on the barren
mankind is us", in the leaves that sprout almost in spite
may perhaps see just a glimmer of
tree even as the human bodies begin to decay, we
we exist".
something that will give us the impression that

