IONESCO 0N THEATRE

Two ﬁtndamental states of consciousness are at the root of all my plays.
These two basic feelings are those of evanescence on the one hand, and heaviness on
the other; of emptiness and of an overabundance of presence; of the unreal

transparency of the world, and of its opaqueness.

I personally would like to bring a tortoise on to the stage, turn it into a race
dare
horse, then into a hat, a song, a dragoon, and a fountain of water. One can
anything in the theatre, and it is the place where one dares the least. I want no other
limits than the technical limits ofstage machinery.

the
People will say that my plays are music-hall turns or circus acts. So much
d of being
better - let’s include the circus in the theatre! Let the playwright be accuse
ry. As a matter of
arbitrary. Yes, the theatre is the place where one can be arbitra

fact, it is not arbitrary. The imagination is not arbitrary, it is revealing.

e it is
I do not write plays to tell a story. The theatre cannot be epic ... becaus
development of
dramatic. For me, a play does not consist in the description of the
a structure that
such a story - that would be writing a novel or a ﬁlm. A play is
become intensiﬁed,
consists ofa series of states ofconsciousness, or situations, which
disentangled again or to
grow more and more dense, then get entangled, either to be

end in unbearable inextricability.
but also to
Everything is permitted in the theatre: to bring characters to life,
not only permitted, but
materialize states of anxiety, inner presences. It is thus
objects live, to animate
advisable, to make the properties join in the action, to make
nued by gesture, action,
the decor, to make symbols concrete. Just as words are conti
, take their place, the .
mime, which at the moment when words become inadequate
material elements of the stage can in turnfurther intensify these.

le physical eﬁ'ort.
It is obviously diﬁicult to write a play; it requires considerab
just when one had got used
One has to get up, which is tiresome, one has to sit down,
heavy, one has to get some
to the idea of standing up, one has to take a pen, which is
a table, which often breaks down under
I paper, which one cannot ﬁnd, one has to sit at

the weight ofone’s elbows.
play without writing it
It is relatively easy, on the other hand, to compose a
out on the couch between sleep
down. It is easy to imagine it, to dream it, stretched
ut moving, without controlling
and waking. One only has to let oneself go, witho
ce; he calls others. The ﬁrst
oneself. A character emerges, one does not know when
ﬁrst note has been struck, the rest
character starts talking, thefirst retort is made, the

follows automatically.

is
One remains passive, one listens, one watches what

happening on the other screen.

