GENET 0N THEATRE

myself.
My books, like my plays, were written against
ght on in their most secret
The actors and actresses must be caught, brou
to accept difficult movements,
depths, not in their ﬁnesse. They must be made
they have in life.
admirable gestures which bear no relation to what
a place close to death,
Ifwe oppose life to the stage, we sense that the stage is
where all liberties are possible.
e from time,
Among other things, the aim of theatre must be to make us escap
l time.
what we call "historical" time, but which is in fact a theologica
gs to no
The time that elapses from the start of a theatrical event belon
ar. And even
calendar. It escapes the Christian as much as the Revolutionary calend
ear from the
if the time we describe as "historical" does not completely disapp
with neither
consciousness of the spectators, another time begins to tick, a time
deﬁes the
beginning nor end, a time that every spectator lives in its fulness, that
ions
historical convention necessitated by social life, and thereby deﬁes social convent
100.

All this does not lead to chaotic disorder, but to a liberation, a heady

liberation - for the dramatic event is suspended as it were, outside historically marked
time, on its own dramatic time.

'

If, for the moment, we accept common notions of time and narrative, accept

too that the act ofpainting has not been the same after the invention ofphotography,
it would appear that the theatre, after cinema and television, will not be the same.
For as long as we have known theatre, it seems that , in addition to its essential

function, every play was crammed with preoccupations - political, religious, moral,
‘ what have you - transforming dramatic action into a didactic means. Perhaps - I say

perhaps, for I am but one man, just one - cinema and television could better perform
the educative function. The theatre, then, would be emptied, purged perhaps of all

that encumbers it. Then, perhaps, it can be resplendent in its unique quality or
qualities, which remain to be discovered.
Drama, that is to say, the theatrical act at the very moment of itsperformance,
that theatrical act cannot be just anything, but it can find its pretext in just anything.
Any VtStble or invisible event, it seems to me, if it were isolated, fragmented in

continuity, could, if it were well directed, become a pretext or yet a point of arrival
and departure for the theatrical act.

