The monumental theatre - whose style is yet to be found - must have as much
importance as the Palace of Justice, the monument to the dead, the cathedral, the
Legislative Assembly, the Military School, the seat of government, the clandestine
nooks in which flourish the black market and the drug trade, the Observatory. And its
function is to be all of these at one time, but in a certain manner, in a cemetery or
near the crematory incinerator, with a rigid, oblique, phallic chimney stack.
To look for the origins of theatre in History and for the origin of History in
Time is stupid. A waste of time. What would be lost iftheatre were lost?
When thisplay (The Maids) was performed, a theatre critic observed that real
maids did not speak like the ones in my play. How do you know? I hold the contrary,
for if I were a maid, I would speak like them. Some evenings. [For the Maids speak.
thus only on some evenings. They must be surprised, either in their solitude, or in the
solitude ofeach one ofus.
Directors must apply themselves to perfecting a pattern of movements which
will not be left to chance. (The characters) move from one point to another of the
stage in a geometrical figure that has meaning. What this meaning is, I cannot say,
but the geometry cannot be just comings and goings. It will portend, like omens borne
in the ﬂight of birds, like an activity of life borne in the flight of bees, like an activity
ofdeath is borne in the work ofcertain poets.

JEAN-PA UL SARTRE 0N GENET
Genet’s voice is among those we never wished to hear: it is not meant to
analyse turbulence, but to communicate it.

Speaking of Shakespeare, J.Vuillemin

wrote, "Sometimes he succeeds in suppressing the divinity of the spectator. With
Hamlet, the point of view of the actor becomes real, the point of view of the spectator

is transformed. We participate instead of seeing. " That, precisely, is what Genet
does.
'
'
The most extraordinary example of these revolving mechanisms of being and
appearance, of the imaginary and the real, is furnished by a play of Genet 's (The
Maids). It is the false, the imitation, the artificial in theatrical representation that
attracts Genet. He became a playwright because the lie of the stage is the most
manifest, the most fascinating. Nowhere, perhaps, has he lied with as much
eﬂrontery.
'

