EVALUATION OF SAIYID
WIZA RAT

The inability of the Saiyids to

and Bahadur Shah, and the Rajputs,

consolidate their: power may be

Marathas, etc. But it suited their

ascribed largely to the opposition

opponents to misrepresent the policy
of the Saiyids, and to give to the
anti-Saiyid struggle the outer

\oﬂ‘ered by an important section of
the old nobles belonging to the time
of Aurangzib and Bahadur Shah.

This section looked upon the Saiyids '
as upstarts, and was not prepared to
be over-shadowed by them in

conducting the affairs of the empire.
The leading role in the opposition
to the Saiyids was played by a small
but powerful group centring round

Nizam-ul-Mulk and M. Amin Khan.
These capable and ambitious nobles
aspired to exercise supreme power in

the state. They also disliked the
Saiyid policy of making large
concessions to the Rajpﬁts, Marathas
etc. , and to the Hindu opinion
generally, regarding it as being a
departure from the policies of
Aurangzib, contrary to the Islamic

character of a struggle between the
Mughals and the Hindustanis.
Politically, the biggest error of the
Saiyids was the deposition of Farrukh
Siyar. The question has been argued
on a moral plane-whether “the
Saiyids were disloyal to their king”,
or whether they “treated him as the
case required”. Irvine has opined

that the deposition of Farrukh Siyar
was, perhaps, unavoidable “but the
way of doing what had become
almost a necessity was unduly harsh
and the taking of the captive’s life

was an extremity entirely uncalled
for’ ’ .
This really is to beg the question.

The execution of F'arrukh Siyar,

character of‘the state and against the

though performed with unnecessary

best interests of the empire and the
monarchy.
The Saiyids attempted to associate
in the higher ranks of the nobility
all sections including the various
ethnic groups at the court, the nobles
belonging to the time of Aurangzib

cruelty, was a logically unavoidable
corollary of- his deposition. As long कि
as he was alive, the Saiyids could not
feel secure. What the Saiyids had to
decide was whether they could realize

their objectives without deposing
F'arrukh Siyar. ‘Abdullah Khan was

