apparently of the opinion that they
could. He felt that there was no harm

He desired that Nizam-ul-Mulk,

in leaving the'sikkah and the khutbah

destroyed at the earliest possible
moment, or at any rate, rendered
incapable of any mischief. This
divergence of outlook and approach
accentuated the differences which
had already appeared between the
two brothers over the division of
power and the Spoils of victory.

in Farrukh Siyar’s name as long as

all the important ofﬁces remained in
their control, and were ﬁlled by their
nominees. The deposition, for which
Husain Ali seems to bear the primary

responsibility, created apprehensions
in the minds of many nobles about
the ultimate intentions of the Saiyids,

M. Amin Khan, etc. should be~

The Saiyids did not enjoy supreme

and alienated their own supporters

power long enough for a proper

who were not prepared for such
extreme measures. Considering the
weakness of their actual position, it

estimate being made of their

was a political blunder, for it enabled
their rivals, the ‘Chin’ group, to
appear as the champions of the

administrative capabilities. The spirit
of party strife which kept growing

from the accession of Farrukh Siyar
paralysed the administration, and
‘ “everywhere zamindars and

Timurid monarchy and to utilise the
public revulsion against the Saiyids

malcontents raised their head.”
Established rules of business were

for their own ends.

ignored. The dependence of the

Secondly, the Saiyids overestimated their strength and

resources, disagreed among themselves about the policy to be pursued
towards the powerful ‘Chin’ group,
the ultimately precipitated a
premature showdown with it. It
would appear that ‘Abdullah Khan
understood better than Husain ‘Ali

Saiyids on subordinates like Ratan
Chand made them unpopular, and
reﬂected unfavourably on their
दृ administrative competence. The

responsibility for bribe-taking and
harshness in revenue-farming is
ascribad to these subordinates. On
the other hand, it is not denied even

the real weakness of their position.

by those writers who are strongly
opposed to the Saiyids that they

By patient and careful diplomacy,

strove hard to maintain law and

he had succeeded in detaching

order, and that their military
reputation and capabilities prevented

M. Amin Khan, Nizam-ul-Mulk and
Sarbuland Khan from Farrukh Siyar.
He was keen that the understanding
with these nobles should be maintained and, if possible, strengthened.
On the other hand, Husain Ali who

was inclined to be haughty and overbearing, apparently held the view
that such a policy was unworkable.

a ﬁnal break-down of the
administration.

By concentrating power in their
hands, the Saiyids sought to save

the Mughal empire from the process
of disintegration which had inevitably
followed the accession of a weak or
incompetent king. Simultaneously,

