NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA
REPERTORY COMPANY

The Repertory Company of the National School of Drama was formed on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi, who played a major role in nurturing and expanding the
Cornpary when he was Director of the School (1962-77), In the begining, the Company
consisted of only four actors, it later expanded into a larger group of actors rnusinians

and teachicians, mainly graduates of the School. Initially, in 1964, the late Om Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977 Shri Manohar Singh was appointed the first
chief of the company. Over the years the Reportory has produced a variety of plays
ranging from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to

translations and adaptations of foreign language plays.
Eminent directors from within the country and abroad have worked with the company
in the past years.
Apart from performing in Delhi, the company tours extensively all over India and has
also made successful trips to Germany, Poland, British, Nepal and Mauritius.

As Part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations the company toured extensively and organised
the Rang yatra Theatre Festival in 1991 . It also put up a special exhibition. Ranga
yatra
designed by Sri Bansi Kaul. The work of the National School of Drama Repetory Company
since its inception is

depicted through photographs,

models, Jewellery, costumes,

etc. in this exhibition. It has been on view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay,
Pune,
Goa and Banglore as well,
In December - January 1992-93, the Repertory commemoreated Mohan
Rakesh, the

celebrated playwright, twenty years after his demise. The Repertory organised
a major
festival of all his plays and dramatic adaptations of his short stories. It was
a significant, rnajor event in theatre.
7
In December 1993, the Repertory participated in the Vishwa Hindi Samrnela
n at Maurit-

ius with performances of three of Mohan Rakesh's plays Aashad Ka Ek Din, Adhe-Ad
hure
and Lehron Ke Rajhans.
In 1994 the Company started a new activity—presentation
of frings performances

consisting of dramatic readings of world classics as wel I as new plays,
enactment of '
poetry and other experiments in the form, content and present
ation of theatre.

Acting Chief of Repertory Company
Business Manager, (Dy, Registrar)

:

A. C. Gandhi

Stage Manager

:

B. S. Patil

Sound Technician

:

S . N. Dasgupta

:

J. N. Kaushal

