हँश्चि m1] mm filial {flag

A Tribute

A scion of an old aristrocratic family of Bengal - his father was Dewan Kartikeya
Chandra Roy of Krishnanagar - Dwijendra Lal Roy was born in Krishnanagar on l9th July,
| 863.

He grew up in those glorious days of Indian Renaissance, sweeping the Indian scene,

in the ferment of which were dissolving fast, never to return, much of the old traditions and

way of life, however well-cherished and prized by the orthodoxy.

A cultured elite as the

Dewan was, illustrious persons like Pandit lshwarchandra Vidyasagar, Bankirnchandra Chatterji,
Akkhoykumar Datta, Dinabandhu Mitra (the famous playwright of ‘Nil Darpan’) were frequent
visitors to his home and young Dwijendra Lal imbibed much of this spirit which he later with
consumate skill utilised in the literary and cultural ﬁeld.
went to England for higher studies

As was the wont in those days he

but on his return he had to face and ﬁght the social,

ostracism imposed on him by the orthodox society.

He turned this bitter experience into

producing satirical and humorous poems and skits, a phase which formed the earlier part of his
remarkable lieterary career. Meanwhile he had joined the executive service and by the time
he was forced joined in March l9l 3 to retire by an alien Government for his outspoken views
on many political issues convulsing the country, he had achieved a fame as an able, progressive
and humane administrator.

In spite of successes in many other ﬁelds he, even before his death on l7th May 'हैं' 3,

was destined to leave his more permanent imprint on the world of dramatic literature. At
the turn of the Century the wave of intense nationalism gripped the heart and-soul of his
countrymen. Patriotic and intellectual as he was, he focussed his entire literary genius in
composing soul-stirring patriotic songs that still move the heart of Bengal and in writing
plays, particularly historical ones, emphasising the Glory that was Ind. As a playwright he
introduced new themes charged with exciting dramas, high passions and sublime emotions which at once attracted the imagination of the people. The professional Bengali Stage as well
as the amateur groups rode crest-high on the waves of this popular enthusiasm. Out of the
stories about ancient India’s legendary ﬁgures, the Rajput lores, the half-forgotten chronicles
of the Mughal Court he weaved his magic spell in a stylised language that is at once lyrical,
dynamic, crisp and direct even in the most dramatic moments. It is no exaggeration to say
that the fames of most of the Thespians of the Bengal Stage rest on the pillars provided by
Dwijendra Lal Roy.

