An Appreciation

दुहुँ] क्या की क्त ] की क्या की क्त

the
SHAH jAHAN, ﬁrst published in I909, is one of his best plays. In between
ion, has
twists and turns of bare historical facts Dwijendra Lal, by sheer power of imaginat
the
depicted the piercing pathos, the magniﬁcent yet futile gestures of the Grand Mughal,
in the
the villeness and sublime sentiments as well as individual fates and passions caught
vortex of intrigues of the seventeenth century Mughal Court. As a work of art and in tragic
him
power few plays in Bengali, even his own. equal SHAH JAHAN. The episodes chosen by
reveal how at the height of its glory the Mughal Dynasty in India is paving the way to its
ultimate decline, almost half-a-century later. In the mid-day glory and magniﬁcence of
Shah Jahan's reign the twilight begins to cast its long shadow when Aurungzib, through
fatricides and imprisonment of his father, ascends the much-coveted Peacock Throne. The
essential conflict in that Season of Fear in that Era of Axe and Poison, was between a tyrant’s
avarice fed by vile intrigues, heartless chicanery, sins on the one hand, and the throes of
conscience, the pulsating humanism on the other. The conﬂict and the tension centres round
Aurungzib whose lust for power has to face again and again the still small voice of conscience.
As a result he often retreats into the world of self-deception. When he achieves the
unchallenged apex of power through bloodshed he realizes the impact of the weight of his

rnisanthropy.

He approaches the senile and grief-stricken Shah Jahan in gaol for forgiveness.

Shah Jahan, once the proudest Emperor, had lost all but despite his fall and disgrace
has kept unimpaired his love for his children.

So he takes little time to forgive his son who

has not only usurped the throne by imprisoning the Emperor but also wantonly killed his
own brothers, the noblest of whom was Dara Shukoh who had dreamt of unifying the two
streams of Man’s religion - Hinduism and Islam - into a mighty ocean.

Jahanara, the beloved

dauther of Shah Jahan and the only solace in his years of imprisonment, also forgives, at the
behest of her father, the murderer of Dara Shukoh of whom she said, “I love my brother
both in form and spirit because we two, of all the descendants of Timur, have treaded the
Path in quest of God and in search of the Truth”.

But the last denouncernent comes from

Dara's daughter Jahratunnisa who foresees the grim years ahead of Aurungzib.
analysis love, humanism and passion engulf the triumphs and
SHAH JAHAN.

In the ﬁnal

tragedies of individuals in

