New Wave in Soviet Theatre
The following article is based on an APN interview with
Vasily Zakharov, Minister of Culture of the USSR.

The theatre plays a special role in moral and spiritual revival of society and roots out everything
that interferes with the reform, that is, narrow-mindedness and passiveness. The theatre should undergo
reform if it is to be a genuine "councillor" of the people. The Ministry of Culture would like to see the
new theatre union as an active and equal partner. Thus they would be “two arms of a single theatre
organism", as one theatre director aptly put it. We must jointly work out a programme of concrete
measures to reform theatre,

In 1987, the experiment will be carried out in 75 theatres all over the country.

It will deal with

freedom—greater
important aspects in the life of theatre companies which are to receive much greater

elected
responsibility— in deciding creative, organisational and financial matters. The theatre council (an
financial
greater
has
also
it
company;
the
of
body) will decide regarding repertoire and the shaping
will not solve
Independence including the right to decide the price of theatre tickets. But the experiment
Even in the
problems.
and
all the problems immediately, Besides, it may bring to light new difficulties
developthe
hindered
problems which
preparatory period, the experiment brought to light a number of
theatrical
in
These problems include shortcomings
ment of scenic art and call for immediate action.
becoming the leaders of theatre companies. Many
of
education and the shortage of directors capable
figure in the theatre".
main
questions heve come up regarding the actor—“the

There are many

working conditions
problems which are connected with artistic pursuits and the

basis, For instance, actors are often paid
of the actors. Some of the reasons have a concrete material
impermissible. Together with the new union, we
the same salary regardless of what they do. That is
of the actors. We fully support the search for new
must search for the best way of assessing the efforts
launched, They suggest that the artistic,
criteria of payment that our colleagues in Estonia have
be considered when the amount of remuneration IS
organisational and human qualities of an actor should
being decided.

which was introduced recently in more
The system of electing an actor once every five years
d results.
than 400 theatres has not produced the desire

does
The reason for it may be that theelection

be the
te or People’s Artist of the USSR; or It may
not concern actors who bear the title of Laurea
to take advantage
e in the company. Not everyone has learnt
influence of moral and psychological climat
There are some
of their rights and to take on responsrbility.
of the greater democracy, to make full use
With

objective reasons as well.

unless we find him work
I n our country, we cannot dismiss an actor

bound to be talented actors who, for one
Among those who are not re-elected there are
the new umon and the
niche in a particular troupe. That IS why
reason or another, could not find their
. rs not only in
on centr e which will help actors and directo
Ministry plan to set up a theatre consultati
l measures are
specra
These
sment of their artistic abilities.
finding jobs but will give them qualified asses
equal pay.

are not mass professions.
justified because acting and direction

3

