It is very important that all those whom the government entrusts with executive functions in the
sphere of art should be especially attentive to theatre workers.

to improve the working conditions of theatre people.

For instance, we are already taking steps

The Ministry of Culture of the USSR has made a

proposal to grant pensions to dramatic, children's and puppet theatre actors according to the length of
their service.

Payment rates are now being drafted which are based on democratic principles and the

local bodies and the companies themselves will have their say in the matter.

Though Soviet theatre has staged many outstanding productions, still there is reason for concern
over the state of the

repertoire and the standards of the actors ‘and directors' professional skill.

development and competition are not being sufficiently stimulated.
say a few words about the new wave in Soviet theatre,

Artistic

In this connection, I would like to

I mean the mushrooming of studio theatre.

Right now seven have been opened in Moscow, and soon there will be more. We are giving this
movement full support. By developing this netwotk of stage companies, we hope to get a reserve of
fresh acting and directing talent. The history of Soviet theatre confirms the advantages of such a road
of deveIOpment : Stadislavsky and Vakhtangov, Okhlopkov and Zavadsky—all started in studios.

Soviet Theatre in India
ATUL SOOD

chiet plays are getting popularity day by day on Indian Stage. In recent days names
of
Vampilov, Arbuzov, Volodin, Chingiz Aitrnatov and others are not new to the theatre lovers of
India.

Anton Chekhov Drama Studio ‘Manch Madhyam, National School of Drama 8 other amateur groups of
the capital 8 other cities are staging the plays of the Soviet authors. National School
of Drama has
produced a play by Chingiz Aitmatov “Fujiyama” Which introduced the Indian spectators
to the new

trend in Soviet play writing.
Anton Chekov Drama Studio has staged at least Six plays of Soviet playwright
s in recent past.

Faizal Alkaji had staged Vampilov 8 Vinod Kurnar translated 8 staged Vampilov's ”The
Elder Son".
But with this development of interest in Soviet plays, there still
is more to do—for instance
to date no Soviet theatre troupe has staged a Soviet play on Indian soil.
Scarcity of scripts too is a hinderance for the Indian theatre enthusaists.

Availability of literature on Soviet theatre sce"e too leaves much to be desired.

Another area yet to be explored is of active collaboration amongs
t Indian and Soviet theatre
organisations
However, the atmosphere for development and exposur
e of Soviet theatre in India still, certainly
is optimistic especially in the light of forthcoming festival of
USSR in India, wherein several theatre

troupes perforrnences would be worth looking forward to and they certainl
y would give a further impetus
to the exchange of theatre experiences of two great nations
of the world who are historically two great
friends too.

