Twenty two Years of Parvatiya Kala Kendra
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was formed in 1988 with a view to promoting the 'folk
forms of Uttarakhand comprismg the Central Himalayan regions of Kumaon and

Garhwal —the folk forms connected with the rituals, ceremonies, dances and
songs, legends, ballads, tales/as also the traditional Ramlila (the sole theatrically developed form of Uttarakhand). The Kendra began slowly by adapting
the folk dances and songs of this region to the req‘JirementS of contemporary
stage, resulting in various choreographic compositions, which were staged
on different occasion in Delhi and other cities of the country, as well as
abroad.
FIRST PHASE

The song & dance ensemble was the first phase of

artistic growth of the

Kendra extending from 1968 to 1980. A programme of about two hours dura-

tion were presented which projected the complete cultural milieu of the region.
The Kendra was cautious from’the very begining to choose such a path, that
would help it to avoid pitfalls at both the ends—~the pitfall of the so called
pure presentations in the name of authenticity which could only be a crude
copy of the original forms on the one hand, or an individualistically oriented
abstract choreography as would have gone beyond the matrix of prerelents
folk forms, on the other This approach helped the Kendra to preserve the
vitality of the folk forms as also to make them stage-worthy. This was also
necessiated by the fact that the Kendra was trying to cater to the Cultural

needs of a fast growing population of Uttrakhand dewelling in a vast metropolis like Delhi, and what is more important, to a new. generation seeking its
roots in its ethnic culture. I n a way this wasan extension of the work started

by the Lok Kalakar Sengh in Almora, way back in the fifties.
SECOND P H A S E
Notwithstanding the utility and popularity of such ensemble

work which

presented the songs and dances only, the Kendra started feeling a strange urge
to build an indigeneous theatre, which could encompass the entire gamut of
the life of the hill people of Kumaon and Garhwal, their aSpiration for a better

life, a theatre which could reflect their problems, as also deepen their aesthetic
sensibility and awareness making them aware of their past the present and
the future. Such a theatre, we thought would only emerge out of the various

segments of the folklore of that region, of which the ballads constituted the
strongest and the richest sources. Being the unwritten records of the life of the
peeple, as lived by them for centuries in the lap of the Himalayas, they seemed
to offer a very strong potential for any the article venture.

