About the play KALANKI
Set in fifth century, this is the story of a city where to doubt was a sin and questioning
was prohibited. Ignorant and simple people steeped in misery, want and ritualism fondly
hoped for the appearance of ‘kalanki’ or ‘kalki’ riding on a white horse, who would one day
wipe off their misery and grief and bestow upon them a life of plenty, prosperity and
happiness. It was a belief that was deliberately inculcated among the credulous people by
the ruling elchelons—Akulkshem, the temporal chief of the city, Tantrik—the spiritual ruler
and others, to divert their attention from their wretched plight and to prevent them from
realising the truth behind it, with the obvious end in view of perpetuating their authority over
them. Dulled and entranced by the myth, the people formed a dead, contented mass. The
stream of time ﬂowed evenly, without even a single disturbing ripple over the City.

But the tranquility of the city was rudely shaken by the arrival of Herup in the city,
after escaping from Vikram Vihar, where he was kept a prisoner for his scepticism and his

refusal to conform to prevailing beliefs propounded and backed by authority, without investigating their bases. His questions and his search for truth were a potential danger even to his
father Akulkshern, as they could spell end to his authority and the system nurtured by him.
This had prompted the latter to

send him to Vikram Vihar initialled, for his education’

‘Tantra Vidya’. But his intrepid spirit did not surrender itself even in the prison. Back in
the city he tried to bring out people from their make believe world of tantra, ritualism and
myth to face and realise the truth behind their sufferings and humiliations. But they did
not believe him. Even though, now Akulkshem was dead, the mysterious halo of the myth

that he had dug deep into the minds of people continued to rule them as ghost (Avadhoot).
To gain their conﬁdence, for a while, Herup agreed to abide by their faith and to be annointed
as their chief. The rebel in him, however, soon manifested itself. Consequently he was again

taken away to Vikram Vihar, to be sentenced to death. But the seed of doubt against the
existing order sown by him did not go entirely in vain. This enabled the people to see
reality behind the myth of ‘Kalanki’ riding a white horse.
Though the play has been set in ﬁfth century A.D., it has modern sensibility and

contemporary appeal. In the construction of the play, author has achieved complete breakthrough frorn the traditional well made plays, so far the structure, theme and characterisation
are concerned. He has however, liberally derived upon conventions of classical Sanskrit and
folk theatre to make this play, in its both written and stage form, yet it is different from them
as the inspiration in amalgamation with the author’s creative style of his own, has produced
something entirely new.

KRISHNA GOPAL
Hony. Secretary
SA M VA D

