I 7 r C S I) I n ०s. h H hat अ

. [V'asketl In । act hays,
Pat taupe parlor s
A scene from
the play,
Kaun Hai
Ye Gustakh

In a packed Imus ,
a _1

f it‘s meant tobe, it will be. Pakistan’s
Ajoka theatre group’s play Kaun Hai
Ye Gustakh was all set to be staged at
Kamani Auditorium during NSD’s annual Bharat Rang Mahotsav (BRM) in 2013,
but was cancelled due totension between
India and Pakistan then. But as fate would have it, the play ﬁnally got staged at
‘ Kamani Auditorium, albeit twoyears later, on the third day of Humsaya — a rec~
ently concluded Pakistan theatre festival.
The play was based on the life of Saadat
Hassan Manto, a well-known author who
relocated to Pakistan after the partition.

WHIOH COUNTRY WILL CLAIM
MY WRITING?
The play began with a video showing images of
the mass exodus aﬂer partition and Manto narrating tales of bloodshed and atrocities cornrnitted on women and children. Manto, played
by actor Usman Raaj, leaves erstwhile Bombay
for Pakistan and asks himself which country
would lay claim on whatever he had written
while in India. Some of Manto’s famous shorts
stories like Khol D0, ’I'handa Gosht and ’I'oba
’Ilzk Singh were also enacted. The play showed
Manto, an alcoholic ’s troubledlife where he drew
ﬂak and even got imprisoned for his fearless
writings. It also highlighted the bit when Man—
. to applied for a license for a printing press, but
gotone for a factorythat made iceblocks instead.
“Aag bechne walon k0 barf bechne k0 bola jaa
raha hat,” is how he summarized his tiﬁ“ with
the authorities. Shahid Nadeem, the playwright
said, “Manto was not communist, leﬂjst or rightist, he was a Mantoist. The play brings Saadat
Hasan, the man at loggerheads with Manto, the
writer, ’’ and added, “There are no theatre schools
in ourcormtry and given that most of the actors
are self-trained, they have done exceedingly well.”

. ..

r. . \ V

-

Shahid Nadeem
Nadeem also wrote the
script of a recently released Pakistani ﬁlm on
Manto. On asked why
Pakistani ﬁlms are not re
leased in India, he said,
“Not many movies are
made there. Moreover:
most of them are not so
good in terms of quality.
However; the ﬁlm industry
in last one year has produced a dozen of ﬁlms
that are good and can be shown to the world."

TWO SHOWS INSTEAD OF ONE
The dialogues were mostly in Urdu and
mouthed confidently by Usman, whose portrayal was well-appreciated. In other major roles
Kamran Mujahid and Uzma Hassan too doled
out noteworthy performances Director Madee
ha Gauhar said, “The day we were asked to pack
our bags and go back to Pakistan, we received
two offers. So, on the day we were supposed
stage our play at Kamani, we did two shows in»
stead — one at Akshara Theatre and other at
JNU. People told us that as Indians, they would
be ashamed if Ajoka goes back without performing. I am glad that we performed at Kamani Auditorium as well." On NSD‘s take that
no Pakistani play has been good enough to get
selected in BRM in last couple of years, Gauhar
said, “ Ussepehle dus saal se ho raha tha and
now suddenly they are not good enough. We
would have wanted NSD people to come and
see our play andthen tell us kiyehplay uss layaI-c
nahi hai. ’ ’
— Pratyush.Patra@timesgroup.com

