. . . .v v 1 w '0" W ' "
८ ८ ,_ w’ .. क्या

Directors Note

‘ ३-३ ३
_.

.

;
«ltd-”7ft ,३३)'१३३'६३/र्टेंर्गहैं

It IS a strange councudence that almost twenty years
rniere ot another play by an Indian playwright - G
theatre's opening night in I 970. Today I have the grea
Padmanabhan's award - winning play HARVEST.
ence it has been.

go I directed the world pre
by Asil Currimbhoy at thi
‘
ii’ectiing9Martiu
d what an insightful exper'
_
हैंदैदुग्लै'हुँहैंठर्टू'हृहुँहुँ;
f

नं

HARVEST is not an easy play, set in 20 I O with its tuturistic and high-tech projections, it could be daunting too many. It is a deeply disturbing, thought - provoking,
evocative play where 'the characters proiect a searing world at human relations in
the not-so-distant tuture'. The characters are finely etched, the situation real and

identifiable, the plot ingenuously developed and the visuals, a challenge tor lighting directors. We could have taken recourse to a high-tech solution and made it a

very cold, technical production, instead, we have used innovative technology to
convey the same impressions ettectively. This idea matches with the impressionistic

set. That the play takes on disturbing and searching questions only contronts us
with the stark reality of our present-day world.
The play places questions betore us - how strong are we to tace the challenges of
exploitation, political, economic, social, at every level ot human society? When we

are laced with ditticult alternatives, what are our choices? Om, the young husband
in the play who sells his organs, says ".... I lost my iob in the company. And why
did I lose it? Because nobody needs clerks anymore. . . . I'm just a clerk. What choices

do I have?"... "wanting, not wanting, what meaning do these words have in our
world? "
When we are taced with such ditticult choices, what happens to our ideals, our

pride, our desire tor treedom?

Jaya says at the end ot the play, that she has discovered a new detinition tor
winning. Winning by losing. 50 what it we lose a gamble, a position, a lucrative
otter? Is that important, or making the right choices?

The play caIIs tor a cast in their late teens or early twenties. I am gratetul to our
young actors who have brought so much vigour and zest to the play, and the
youngest ot us all is our Star, Zohra! And to a member of the cast who has returned

early Irom New York. I could not have directed this play without the contribution at
our brilliant lighting designer, Aviiit Dutt, and superb technical and stage director
Vinay CapiIa. To my fellow executive theatre members, my untaiIing gratitude for
their unstinted taith and support. And to the Ministry ot Culture and the Hindustan

Times, tor helping us out at a ditticult tinancial situation. We have enjoyed the
association with Kuku Rao ol the Concern India Foundation.
Joy Michael

