"YAKSHAGAMANAYA"

Sinhala interpretation of Bertolt Brecht’s play

"THE RESISTIBLE RISE OF ARTURO UI"
presented by the Goethe-Institut, Colombo
This is a review of the Sinhala translation of the well-known play by the
German dramatist Bertolt Brecht. The play was written by Brecht at the
end of March 1941, towards the end of his stay in Finland whence he had

fled in order to avoid falling into the clutches of the Nazis. It can be said
that the play operates at two levels: at one level it develops and recreates
certain violent incidents and events that characterise the rise of Fascism
and of Hitler in German political history of that period. On the other, it
reflects and recreates the background and conditions obtaining in the
commercial world in America of the twenties during a period of intense
economic crisis. Superficially the play develops as a narrative of events
depicting gangsters of the Chicago underworld and business entrepreneurs. Its deeper dimension is a symbolic representation of the events
leading to the rise and consolidation of Fascism in Germany: the burning
of the Reichstag (Parliament) and the appointment of Hitler as Prime
Minister (Reichskanzler) followed by the first step taken by the forces of
Fascism under Hitler’s leadership towards the conquest of the world the subjugation of Austria etc. Thus, the characters of the play Ui, Roma,
Giri, Givola, Dullfeet - can be viewed as representing Hitler, Rohm,

Goebbels, Dollfuss and others who were actors on the contemporary
German political stage. This shows that "The Resistible Rise of Arturo
Ui" is indeed the most famous play written by Brecht on the theme of
Fascism.

y
ver
a
but
n
tio
pta
ada
an
not
is
y
pla
's
cht
Bre
of
n
sio
ver
a
hal
Sin
The
faithful and correct translation of it. That is to say, no event, contradic-

tion or clash of opinion or character has been reinterpreted in terms of
the Sri Lankan context. The producer and the translators view the
essence of the play as consisting of the eternal contradiction between the
rational(wisdom) and the irrational (ignorance) the omnipresent conflict between humanity and barbarisrn. Because this has universal
application in human society it was not considered necessary to give the
play a specific "Sri Lankan cover". One reference, however in the
prologue has been accorded a more detailed description in translation
- the reference to "The War of the Roses" in medieval England. Brecht
includes "The War of the Roses" in order to give expression to his
"opposition to war". This is expressed in greater detail in the translation
to help the audience understand it.

