About the P l av
hoping against the
Doesn’t Ghalib mean to be wishing and
did he attain the exacting
presumtuous reality of practice ’? Then, how

accepts fixed conditions
standard of great poetry ‘? If anyone who
tive impulse is bound to
and no longer looks over the fence, the crea
a concrete utopia to defeat
become atrophied. Thus Ghalib generated

l example encounter from
the wildly proliferating illusion. And classica
ry.

ent through his poet
our lips when we start to recite his sentim
Ki Perchchaiyan”
Here we present a dance drama “Ghalib

his poetry and life.
to understand the various nuances inherent in
relationship between a
The drama shadows Ghalib, describing the
an being, Ghalib
creative human being and a poetic creation. As a hum
he lived in perpetual
hungered for joy and knowledge, even though
(hope) spurred
destitution. But poetic creation chiselled by ‘Arzoo’

o was his hope
him onto traversing an unending quest. Ghalib’s Arzo
y future where
to attain the dignity of a great poet, the hope of a happ
charm and beauty.
he would meet his ‘Domini’ and be surrounded by

his
The Ballet technique makes his poetry in comformity with

(hope)
sentiments in the form of characters on stage. Thus Arzoo
actually a flesh
who appears as Ghalib’s beloved in the play is not
o” (pleasure
and blood person. Instead, Arzoo signifies “Nishate Arzo
-

of hope).

As the play begins, Ghalib grows with his death and matures
horizon
with Arzoo. His self chides rather guides him to broden his
captured
and fulfil his desire. The different shades of his emotion are
(devotion)
by lshq (love) Ghum (woe, grief), Husn (beauty), Prastish
ed
and Arzoo (hope). At times Ghalib is melancholic when his belov

Arzoo commits herself to the dedication of his artistry. But he nurtures
l
his verses with these perennial sorrows. Though an ephemera
e of
ecstasy fills this paradox of destiny by Ghalib getting patronag
Bahadur Shah Zafar, soon mutiny shrouds all his hopes.
‘Arzoo’ comes sometimes in the form of ‘Saqi’ (the girl who

al
offers wine) and sometimes in the form of ‘Domini’ (the profession
lady singer). In the last scene Arzoo is nothing more than a shadow
with her group, glowing in celestial beauty, takes Ghalib for a journey
down memory lane. But these happy moments of the past melt away
and the dream finally ends.

2

