The

Waiting

(Gujarati),

Room

Tejpai

Auditorium. anaiib Tank.
Oct 15, 8.30 pm; Directed by
DhlreJ Palshetkar; It is the
story of people who are at the
crissroads of life, waiting for
that one twist of iate. that one
ptlll, which can catapult them
train the rut, from the rnonot—

ony oi life. Starring: Bhaminl ’

Cuckoo
t‘. i u b .
Sandra, (lrl iIt
’ 3i) prrr, ‘

_ . ५ r r ' दृ
इ

T,1 int n u

he learnt rn college, unrversrty or last iew jobs has prepared him
for what comes next Starring Adhir Btrat. Prema Chawia. Karan
Pan d । t and others

Miss Bindass (ilrndi), St
Andrew's Auditorium,
Bandra, Oct 16, 7.30
pm; Directed by Vogendra
Konkar This is a story ot
a flirtatious husband who
iirrts wrih hrs hot young

female secretary as well
as the young bachelor
PG ills wrie. who is 11118trateri gets attracted
towards the male bacheior PG But the young
bachelor Is attracted
towards the secretary.
Starring Tia Joshi. Piyush
Adhrya and others
Crumpled (Engirsir), House 01
wow, Sandra. Oct 14, 8.30 pm:

play trres to raise a question
Starring Kararr Arora Parul
A compilation oi ﬁve modem Gulati, Prakhar Singh and others
short love stories. each showrng
what relationships are all about An Amazing Tale Of The
in contemporary limes Starring .Wizard 01 0; (English), Canvas
Aakash Prabhakar Mahrraz Laugh Club, Lower Parel, Oct
Damanra.
tieeoa
Shanna 15, Oct 16, 2 pm; Directed by
Vishaai Asranr, Jiji Subl, A story
an d oi hers
about a young girl Dorothy and
Marching Dead (English, Hindi, her talking dog Toto who are
Punjabi), Satlraye Auditorium, blown away by a hurricane and
Vrie Pane, Oct 14, 7.30 pm; iarrd rn the magical land of Oz
Directed by memo Singh, From They must trnd a way to meet
Jan 2 to Jan 5 2016, ‘The the Wizard who rs the only one
Pathankol Terror Attack' took who can send them back home
place With security personnels to Kansas,
dead and half the country
unaware oi the situation, the Hamieeia (Hindi), Hungry

Kalkayr, Shakunl, Zamku Dosht, Karnra

birath and ilarshad Mehta. Starring:

Waiting For no
(EngliIh/Hlndl),
The
Cuckoo Club, Sandra, Oct
18, 7.30 pm; Directed by
Sapan Saran; Two actors

Meenal Patel. Mano) Shah, Dilip Rawal

and others.
Jyan Laxmi Tyan Naroyan (Entered),
Aspeo Auditorium, Maiad. Oct 18, 9
pm; Directed by Jaydeep Strait; Nanjl

sounds, because only one
of them is entitled to a tickhappiness and even God supports
those who irave wealth, God hres to
Minds, Andheri, Oct 15, 5 pm, Arcadia — The Promised Land explain to Nanil that his beliefs are
Cocoon Pm School, Nerul, Oct 16, 5 (English), Havana cate and Bar, incorrect but NanJi ls adamant and
pm; The Ramayana has been simplie coiaba, 7 pm: A collection of organic challenges him Instead Starring:
tied for young audiences and the nar- poetries that cover multiple perspec- Ashish Bhatt, Sanchi Pesvani. Pratham iteady Steady Go (Gujarati), Tetpal Jahan wanted tobuild the Ta) Mairai in
Aduitorium, Gowaiia Tank, Oct 18, मैं the current era what would have been
ration is brought alive through drama- tives of all those associated wrth age- Bhatt and others
trsatron oi handcrafted puppet charac~
—20% Man Times Card. pm; Directed byAnurag Parppan; A rrb- the outcome. The play depicts the coring and death, ranging from the inditickling yet emotional rollercoaster
ters. background musrc. rnteractivrty vidual, to the family, relatives, neighroot
system
and
the
corrupt
showcasing the life oi the close-knit Government officials and how Shah
and humour
bors, doctors. surgeons, and the socieand yet ditierently opinionated, middleJahan became their Victim Starring
Someday
(English),
Sophia iy at large.
class Bhatt family. Starring: Tiku Rupesh Charanpahari, Narenora
Auditorium, Breach Candy. Oct 15, Code Mantra (Gujarati), Oct 16,
Taisania, Chayya Vora,
Khanjan
Praiapati, Aditya Dubeyand others.
7.30 pm; Directed by Rehan Shaurya.
Thum b a r.
Bhaldas Auditorium, Vile Parte, 7.45
When Wkram, In a hit-andrun accrdent pm, Oct 20, Prabodhan Thackeray
Barsaat KI Woh Raat (Hindi), Rang
Shodh
Pratishodh (Gularati), Sharda Auditorium, Bandra, Oct 18,
leaves an injured womanon the Side of Auditorium, Borlvaii, 9 pm; Directed
Prabodhan
Thackeray
Auditorium,
road, ire does not know that she by Rajesh Joshi; This is an engaging
7.30 pm; Radhika Bulbui, a tailed
Borlvail, Oct 16, 9 pm; Directed by struggling actrex rs desperate to find
(Shalrnr) rs hrs father's (Kumar's) courtroom drama set up against the
Karriiesh Mora: lie believes that he has love and success in Mumbai.
estranged sister Starring Adrtya background oi the irrdian Army.
planned the perfect cold-blooded Uninvited, she barges into an ad
Banenee, Akshay Anand Kohli, Sanjay Starring: Sneha Desar, Pratap Sachdev,
crime. But unfortunately the dice does agency ior an audition and meets
Gurbaxani and others.
Hajesh Soni and others
not follow his wish and positions are Ashok Sehgai. a hugely successful ad
—20% often "mosCard.
Trust Me Darling (Hindi), Rang
changed on a dark monsoon night and filmmaker. Starring: Babloo
Sharda, Bandra, 7.30 pm, Oct 16. Dharrnapath — Ek Dost Jo Bataye
when he is caught alive but badly Mukheriee and Sheetal Khandai,
Vashwant Natya Mandlr, Matunga, Sachi Rah (Hindi), VB Chavan
injured. lie slips into coma until one
8.30pm; Directed by Paritosh Painter; Auditorium, Nariman Point, Oct 16,
day when he wakes up to realise three Tame Aaosho To banish: (Guiarad),
Aditya, a divorcee living in an elegant 7.30 pm; A story of a family where the
sides of the story— his,theirs and the Bharatlya Vidya Bhavan, Chowpatty,
truth. Starring: Jay Kapadia. Neha Oct 18, 7.30 pm; This is a social comflat in Malabar iiill, solves his iinancial members have forgotten the path of
edy. Starring: itaran Trivedi, Leena
Prajapati, Chirag Mehta and others.
problems by entertainrng two women dharma, The dada and dadi by setting
Shah, Abhay Harpadeand others.
on alternate days, both unaware at things straight and in the process, set r ' .
n
३ क्या, श्याओ To] Mahal KaTender (Hindi), Samayo
each other’s exrstence. The scheme on a rollercoaster ride. Starring: Sharad L Bharadwal. 8 av ‘ Bhattyo oiti‘i
Auditorium, Vile Parie,Oct 19, 7 pm; Modern Middle Class (Gujarati),
collapses when Aditya’s best friend Shanna, Geeta Deval and others.
‘ others.
‘
II
Directed by Aditya Dubey; If Shah Wm
. Dot
Jignesh. who's marriage is tottering,
16, 7.30 pm; The piay’s theme covers
arrives at the ﬂat hotly pursued by his EkPaoch I Ek(Gujarati), CLAP, Malad , Khush Raho Vaar— Lite is Beautiful
the idea of a generation gap, Starring:
drunkard wiie, Persis. Confusion folJayesh
Barbhaya,
Bhoornl
Shukia,
(Gujarati), Nehru Centre, Worti, Oct
lows leading to aclimax of comic wizNilesh Bhatt and others
18, 5.30 pm; Directed by Rasik Dave;
ardry. Starring: Manav Gohii, Ridhi
Two families are at ioggerheads with
Dildaar Expreg (Hindi/English). The
Dogra. Atul Parchure and others.
each other as the son ofone family and
Cuckoo Club, Bandra, Oct 15. 6 pm
the daughter of the other family have
Adrashyarn (Gujarati), Bbaldas
and 8 pm; Directed by Rabijita Gogol;
eloped and married. A stranger tries to
Titc Butler
Auditorium, Vile Pane, Oct 16, 4 pm;
A poet ﬁnds his daily horoscope saying
bring the two families together but
Directed by Vipul Mehta; A boy in
that it will be a tantastic day for him.
nobody
knows
his
motive.
Starring:
Ahrnedabad claims to see spirits
So, he makes adecision and randomly
Arrrit Devatia, Meera Acharya, Mahesh
around him After hearing trequent
goes out in search of wonders in his
Udeshi and others.
complarnts from lliiil regarding this.
life. Starring: Harish Kurnaar‘, Jayarrt
the iatirerdecides totake him to apsyGadekar and Manish Mishra.
Mas Nasma Khunnas (Gujarati),
chiatrist for consultation Starring:
‘l'ojpll Auditorium, Bowth Tank, Oct
PaperPlanes (English/Hindi), Godrel
Chirag Vora, Birakti Raihod, Tushar
16, 7.45 pm; Directed by Feroz
Dance Theatre, "GPA. Narlman
lshwar and others.
An honest‘iournalist who has
Point, Oct 18, 5.30 pm; Directed by
The Butter Did it (English), St Bhagat;
—arr% oﬂon77m Card.
always walked on the right path of iiie
Akshay Anand Kohii; The protagonist
Andrew's Auditorium, Bandra,
has to choose the wrong one due to
accidentally travels to a parallel uniAll You Need Is Lovo’ (English),
Oct 15, 1.30 pm; This is about a
helpless circumstances. And the roller
verse where he ﬁnds himself 30 years
Andherl Base, Andheri, Oct 16, 7pm;
theatre group that bungies through coaster
ride begins to only take him
older titan his current age. Starring:
Drrected by Rashrni Shanna; A romanamurder mystery and creates more
further down. Starring: Jagesh Mukad,
Mohit Agarwal, Simian Bakshi, Sagar
trc comedy of Pooia, a tree-spirited
of a comedy oi errors. The only
Saunil Daru, Linesh Fanse and others.
Gnoiap and others.
young girl wiro marries Vijay, a consermystery is in whether they will get
Pappa
Once
More
(Gujarati),
vative lawyer. The couple goes tirrough through the show in one piece.
Bharattyo
Vldya
Bhavan,
cnowpatty,
rough patches due to difference in
Backstage shenanigans, actors tryopinion Thingsget worse when Pooia’s log to upstage one another andthe Oct 18, 3.30 pm; Directed by Arvind
Valdya; A daughterzln-iaw goes against
elder sister Laiia comes over to visit
show's technicais tailing them cre- her family, adopts her hather-indaw
them and encounters their drunkard ate even more hilarity In what
and decides to give him back all the
neighbour. Starring: Estraan Shanna.
should have been a serious drama. rights he was deprived of. Starring:
Pooja
Muraila. Paritosh Tiwari
Starring: Divya Paiat, Adllya tinker-i,
Arvind Valdya, ititika Shah, DhnrvBarot
and others.
Anu Merton and others.
and others.
Gandhi.
Shiipa Pandyo
and others. '
हैं
'
—20% on on "IrresCard.

The
t nt e v । ow
(English).
T it e

Oct 18, 7 pm; The play has dlfiererrt
monologues each of 1548 minutes
Various artistes take on the role of different characters like Kasuturba.

Zatkiya believes that money can buy

