Delhi Art Theatre

स्लो

W

Flat No.36, Shankar Market, Connaught Circus,
New Delhi - 110 001
Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution in promoting and enriching theatre for over 35 years. Its productions have been
acclaimed not only in Delhi but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and
beyond. Particularly in the ﬁeld of operas and musical dramas the group, under the
direction of Sheila Bhatia, has carved a unique and unrivalled place for itself.
Probably ours is the only group which has experimented with original plays or
operas and musicals in the three major languages of this region, namely, Punjabi, Urdu
and Hindi. The theses of our plays deal with burning social and human problems of the
people. The sorrows, joys and frustrations, particularly about women form a large canvas of our repertoire.
The greatest problem is the paucity of good original plays in Hindu, Urdu and
Punjabi. The north zone is particularly bereft in this respect. Special efforts have to be
made and inducements given to playwrights to create authentic plays. It is not possible
for the group and its writers to produce year after year new operas and musical plays
which is our special genre.

Our productions. to name a few like Heer Ranjha, Prithviraj Chauhan. Ghalib
Kaun Hai, Chann-Badlan—Da, Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka — Hawa Se Hippie Tak, Nadir Shah.
Jugni, Dard Aye Ga Dab-e Paon. Shahanshah Akbar. Sulagde Darya etc. were hailed as
landmarks in Indian theatre. They created a stir and were treated as setting a new trend
in experimental and innovative theatre. But the group faces many serious problems.
The biggest is to find a cast oftalented actors and singers. We don‘t use mikes. But the
modern schools, TV, Radio, ﬁlms by and large only produce crooners. There is no
training for elocution or voice culture. The quality of inner emotion and stress is missing. But we are still lucky to possess a few artistes who can match in capacity and
capability the best found anywhere. Strenuous training and persistent efforts to improve the quality of acting. singing and stagecraft forms an integral part of our curricuit

l um .

