r”

न
r

‘

I he Play
Rich will Remain Rich
And Poor will Remain Poor
And the Twain shall never meet.

\

Sheila Bhatia’s latest play Mein Aur Woh was born out ofher experiences of life. She has woven a story
of a poor girl Paro and a rich girl Rupa. Both have grown together. Paro’s mother Punia worked in the

household of Rupa’s parents and Paro used to help.
Rupa and Paro laughed together and cried together. Time came for Rupa to go for higher studies. Still
they remained friends and exchanged confidences.
No one questioned the disparity of the two, one going to a college and the other doing the household
chores. Rupa’s father died. Her mother had died much earlier. Relatives came and went away. She
decided to live her own life in the sprawling house with Paro as her companion. Paro become more and
more attached to Rupa, whil/e Rupa was busy in her studies. Paro looked after the house.
A classmate of Rupa, Rahul became an intimate friend and frequented the house often. Slowly the differ-

ences in life styles of Rupa and Pam became evident day by day. Keeping Paro who is brought up under
her wings, uneducated is Rupa’s parochial understanding ofsociology. Rupa does not raise her little ﬁnger

to improve Paro’ 3 quality of life.
Slowly and gradually the fate of two girls living under the same roof runs parallel never to meet.
In the meantime Paro blossomed into an attractive and beautiful girl. Bansi, a rich friend of Paro and Rahul
fell for Paro.

One day finding her alone he proposed to Pam and declared he wanted to marry her. Pam is shocked out
of her wits. In her confusion and fear she pushed Bansi out of the house.
Paro often visits her parents. She knows enough to see two levels of living. Which is her home?
Rupa and Rahul have married.

Paro’s parents have found a husband for her. She was forcibly married to a worthless man, a gambler

involved in lottery business. He brutally rnolests Paro the ﬁrst night. Scars never heal. She is maltreated.
Her feet are bound. There is no getting away. There is no respite.
She conceives and delivers a son. Her sole mission in life is, what she has gone through, her son Kailash

should not. She runs Rupa’s household and dreams of Kailash’s future. Her own life is hell - abuses.
beatings, forcible sex, never ending demands for money for liquor.
Rupa’s eyes which had remained so far blind to her child mate's ordeal at last open. Remorse and guilt
envelops her. She tells Faro from now onward Kailash will be looked after by her in every way. Paro

stares and stares at her. As if a thick dark veil has been torn away from her eyes. She is freed at last to do
what she always wanted to do since her marriage, but dared not for the sake ofher son. Now she can rest
in peace. . . She never goes home. She jumps into a near by well.
When Bansi brings the news Rupa is crushed.
Another Coat of Darkness/

But Rupa you were in light/
What did you do?

a
९

