u cow- I u . . . v. . . v- ०___

Fragments of our expressions
ht artists will be showing their works a
N Krishnéimurthy and Shyamala Ramanand, two self-taug
their respective careers
Parishat‘till August 30. The two took up art after retiring from
हुँ Express श्या

a. an.

,. ८८.rt g». r

Race Course Road: At Chitrakala
Parishat, a show featuring paintings by
N Krishnamurthy and Shyamala Rarnanand will be displayed from today
till August 30. The paintings displayed
are part oftheirjourney ओटा they took
' a break from their respective professional areas of expertise.
It was in the year 2007 at Chitrakala
‘ Parishat that both joined a short-term
' course in painting but both are predominantlyself-taught and have been
trained by several illustrious artists.
Shyamala Ramanand has always
found art to be a very intimate part of
her life and she says, “As my father
served in the armed forces, it helped me
to travel across India and get exposure
to various cultures and people. After
working in the corporate sectorfor over
20 years, I decided tofollow and pursue
my childhood passion.”
She also learnt several techniques
from many eminent artists such as the
late S. Prahalad, MG Doddamani and
Shivanand B. She has taken part in
many a show and Chitrasanthe and
displayedher works in many forums.
She says, "I like painting the simple
life and living forms which are part of
ourculture and traditions. Thecultures
manifest in images which are rich in
colour. Inthis show. I have tried watercolours which are free flowing but retain the essence of the painting." She
isalso extremelypassionate about com‘*"“

'

Department, Bengaluru in 2005. also
wanted to pursue his interest in arts.
Thevisits to variousart galleries in Bengaluru and other cities in India and
abroad too triggered his interests fur—
Ier.
After attending two certiﬁcate art
courses at Karnataka Chitrakala Parishat.
he started his painting career .
Shyamala and N Krishnamurthy
He has aLso completed [WA and MFA
rnunity art development and has cu~ from Mysore University under its disrated mega group shows called Akank— tant education programme.
His ﬁrst participationwas in a group
sha in 2014 and 2015 that comprised
more than 100 women artists. She be- exhibition atCKP in August. 20 I I along
lieves art can bring about a sense of with four other artists.
In the presentexhibition. he isexhibpeace and stability in today‘s world.
N Krishnamurthy after retiringas the iting ﬁve paintings that combine mychief commissioner of Central Excise thology and modem ideas.

k ' V 'r‘ - v1 .4 r7- 7- "J" rRF-n.—,_‘ ५ ५. -५ श्या . दृ

__Syrribols of tradition

