TH E DIRECTOR

they together initiated a Youth The—
atre Movement. Mohan Maharishi
was further retained as Cultural Adviser to the Prime Minister by the
Government ofMauritius fora period
of three years.
He returned to India in I 979 to

of sorts by bringing to India an Indian
play Andhayug, with a foreign cast,
from abroad. He repeated the feat in
1981 when he took a Punjabi play,
Rani Jindan, to the United States and

he was directly taken on as Professor,

Canada.
Mohan Maharishi got the Sangeet
Natak Akadem i award from his home
state, Rajasthan in the year 1991. In
1992, he won the prestigious National Award for his service to Indian

a job that he still retains.

theatre, an honour conferred on him

head the Department of Drama,
Punjab University, Chandigarh.
Considering his eminence in the field,

by the President of India on 3 Febru-

In 1 984, the N S D Society requested
him to take over the Directorshi p of
the National School of Drama. He
worked as Head of NSD until August
1986, when he resigned because of

Tha Raja.
Mohan Maharishi is currently di-

differences with the management.

recting a special experimental

ary 1 993. Recently, he produced and

directed his first experimental film Ek

In his 30-year career as director,

project—Theatre Lab—for U.C.C.

teacher, actor, designer and writer,

Under this project, he has just di—
rected a version of the Mahabharata
which is currently touring northern
India.
Besides translating Strindberg’sThe
Father and Jean Paul Sartre’s Men
Without Shadows, he has adapted
Kafka’s famous novel The Trial in

Mohan Maharishi has created several
important works; notable amongst
them are his productions of regional
Indian playwrights like Adya
Rangacharya, Badal Sircar, Girish
Karnad, Mohan Rakesh and Dr

Dharrnavir Bharati.
Jean-Paul Sartre’s Men Without
Shadows , Anou i l h’s Antigone, Bertolt

Brecht’s The Mother, George Bernard Shaw’s Pygrnalion, Durenmatt’s
The Visit, Moliere’s The Miser, and

Kafka’s The Trial are some of h is bestknown productions of foreign playwrights.
Mohan Maharishi has toured ex—
tensively all over the world to see
theatre and participate in seminars
and discussions as an Indian delegate. He has personally met and had
discussions with world renowned
theatre figures like actress Helena

Wigel, directors like Peter Brook, Peter Stein, Karlos Khun, Eugino Barba,

Satyajit Ray, Tadashi Suzuki and
playwright Heiner Muller.

Mohan Maharishi created history

Hindi, titled Joseph Ka Muqqaddama
and Peter Shaffer’s play Equus—titled
E’Tash in Hindi. He is the author of
two original plays—Dr. Einstein and
Natak Ke Beech—a comedy.

