T H E P LAYW R I G H T’ 5 NOTE

The beginning of this century registered a marked change in the direction of thought. Einstein’s contribu-

into chi ldren’s course books all over
the world, it is logical to ask, why

known as Classical Physics, began

write a play on this subject? It is an
amazing fact that despite this proliferation of material the people at large
have remained ignorant of the depar—
tures made by Einstein. Outside the

with Copernicus, Kepler and Galileo

scientific community it is rare to meet

and later synthesized in Newtonian

an individual who can broadly ex-

tion to this change was enormous as

far as the science of the inanimate
world is concerned. What is now

physics. The advent of Newton marks

plain sorne of the basic concepts,

the completion of an important phase

with some clarity. It would be even
rarer to find someone who has allowed Einstein’s concepts to alter his
perception of reality. I personally was
very surprised to know that there is

in analytical dynamics. To this, if we
add Maxwell’s theory of the electromagnetic field, Hertz’s work on optics as its consequence, and also include Boltzmann’s statistical interpretation of the second law of ther-

modynamics, the picture of classical
physics is almost complete.

only one Canadian play on Einstein

and that too does not go beyond a
collection of anecdotes from his life
and merely seeks to enhance the charisma of the man. । know, many argu—

The logical structure which acted as

the basis of these theories, pre-sup—
posed a sharp distinction between
objective and subjective reality. The
events in the outside world follow a
strictly causal development and the
space/time in which these events oc—
cur is absolute, which means, ifat any

given time we have complete
knowledge of the state of an object,
its future development can be charted
with mathematical certainty.
The greatness and courage of Einstein
lies in the fact that he made the first
break-through i n th is wel l-establ i shed
and exceedingly successful logical
structure. Through his two theories of
Relativity, Special and General,
Einstein altered our concepts of space
and time in a manner that seemed

shockingly radical at that time.
Today, when his contribution to
physical thought is well documented
in hundreds of popular and scientific
books and papers, and in fact his
major concepts have already gone

ments can be advanced to explain
and even defend this gap, but nothing
can convince me that there are no
strong biases lurking beneath this and
similar other negligences.
The second reason, for a non-scien—

tific person like me, to get into such
an arduous and highly risky venture is
that, I personally love the subject—
rnatter at this stage of my life, though
I hated physics and mathematics in
my school and college days. Today I
am certain that my earlier indifference to science in general had nothi ng to do with the development of my
brain, but was only a reflection on the
quality and methods of teaching
available to me. । have explained the
social and personal reasons for get—
ting involved in a discipline in which
। was totally uninitiated. But I think
there was a deeper artistic urge which

propelled me to create an interdisci—
plinary work in which I could enjoy
exploring the creative tension between apparent content and form.

This point needs just a little elabora-

