T H E D | R ECTO R’5 NOTE

This Project

5. The next two parts of the trilogy

will show the exit of the Star leaving
1. The overall quest is to bring new
subject matter on stage in an exciting

theatre language before the public.

the debate open, with people like
Neil Bohr, Werner Heisenberg and
other eminent scientists still strug-

gling at the forefront of human
2. This particular production, the story
till 1 905, is the first part of a trilogy I

knowledge.

have conceived on the work of Al bert
Einstein who along with his great
colleagues radically changed our
world view and consequently affected

6. I am thankful to the National School
of Drama, Dr. Narnvar Singh and
Prof. N.C. Jain for providing this op-

our entire life process. The world,

gratitude to Prof. A.S. Bhatia and Dr.
R.C. Verma ofthe Physics Department
ofthe Panjab University, Chandigarh,
who not only happily collaborated
with me in creating the script but
constantly helped me to go on a path
which was never easy for me to tread.
My grateful thanks are also due to Shri
Vasant Sathe and Shri Ram Niwas
Mirdha for greatly encouraging me.

inside and outside science,is still
struggling to come to terms with his
extraordinary findings. Undoubtedly

a very large number of people even
now are left out of the process of

change which came about as a result
of intellectual fermentation in the
scientific world at the beginning of
the century which is now end i ng.The

portunity to me. I also express my

implications of such a theatrical
project for a developing country are

obvious.
3. This play first endeavours to establish the broad, but rigid, cosmological framework provided by Aristote-

lian books as preserved in ancient
Rome. The model provided by
Aristotle was taken by the later sets of

theologies (particularly the Jewishl sl am i c—Chri sti an) and perpetrated for

almost two thousand years until
Copernicus and Galileo effectively
challenged it. Centuries later we had
people like Newton and Einstein who

brought in changes that were radical
and far-reaching.
4. The second act of the play quickly
focuses on the work and personality

of Einstein and tries to chart out the
complex and often painful yet highly
emotional and passionate search for
order in chaos or vice-versa.

Mohan Maharishi

