DAFtIO-F'O, (1926)
’ Italian dramatist, actor; and theatrical activist. His career
began in small cabarets and theatres and in the Italian
national radio and television networks. In 1959, with his

wife F'ranca Rame, he founded the Compagnia Dario F'o—
F'ranca Rame, which produced a number of popular satirical

dramas including Archangels Don’t Play Pinball (GII
arcangeli non giocano a flipper, 1959) and He Had
T'wo Pistols with White and Black Eyes (Aveva due
pistole con gli occhl bianchi e neri, 1960). By performing

comic sketches on the television show Canzonissima,
the pair became famous all over Italy, but when censorship
limited the couple '3 artistic freedom, they formed another
compagnia, Nuova Scena, with links to the Italian Communist party, F'o’s
theatrical pieces are written hurriedly and often depend upon improvisation
and extensive revision after each performance. Most recently his works
employ topics taken from current news—the rise of the Italian question—
and often include a discussion between actors and audience. Accidentlal
Death of an Anarchist (Morte accldentale di un anarchico, 1970), for
example, examines the death of Giuseppe Pine/Ii, who allegedly committed
suicide during an interrogation in 1969; As a bridge between popular culture
and radical intellectuals, Fb’s collective theatre occupies a central place in
contemporary Italian culture.
३

RANJIT KAPOOR
Fianjit Kapoor; born into a family of Par'si Theatre toured different
areas of the country along his father late. Madanlal Kapoor for
24 years;
He worked for the N80 Repertory from 1977 to 1979 & directed
two plays “Begum Ka Yak/ya” & “Mukhya—Mantri” . Some of his
notable written plays & some adapted and translated works are
Waijak, Berry the dad, Kolag, The Janpath Kiss, Chekhov ki
Dun/ya, Court-Martial etc.
‘He has been actively involved in film-scripting for films like Mohan
Joshi Hazir ho, Sarta, Khamosh, Ek Fluka Hua Faisala, Jaane
Bhi do Yaro.

He has recieved the Sahitya Kala Parishad award for best director
in theatre.

