RAMLILA
Sita Haran was the first portion of Ramlila, in its
Uttarakhand style that was attempted by Parvatiya Kala
Kendra in 1981. It was followed by the portion from
‘Pushpa-Vatika’ to ‘Sita-Swayamver" in 1983.
Another
attempt was made in 1985 when major portion of Rarnlila
was presented. The Kendra have had the occasion to
present these portions both in lndia and abroad, and

recently last year in 1988, ‘Pushpa-Vatika' was presented
in Pyongyang. Beijing and Bangkok. The present effort
to present all the major portions in two parts, is aimed at
developing further its traditional design in respect of all
its presentational aspects, especially

music,

acting,

costumes and stage techniques. Owing
to lack of
funds it could not be presented in an Open air theatre.
The current practice of various Ramlila groups to build
a temporary proscenium theatre in the Open air, does
not keep its original form intact which combined a
proscenium stage with a rectangular acting area open
in three sides for the audience to sit. The Kendra hopes

to do it in future.
Ramlila of Uttarakhand is fully operatic in character.
All the characters develop the story through a plethora

of songs sung in all kinds of musical forms ranging from
classical ragas to bhajans, gazals, quawalis etc. and sur-

prisingly, no indegenous tunes are used.
The languages
used
too ranga from
Brij to Khari Boli,
Hindi and Urdu.

It has c0piously drawn upon the rich

musical repertoire of North-lndian traditional theatre like
Nautanki, Maach, Jatra and Rass. Ramcharitmans is
the basis of this Ramlila, but songs in Hindi, Urdu and
Hindustani have replaced most of the original verses of
the Manas lending it a theatrieality.

The main objective of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, taking
up this venture is to preserve as also to creatively enrich
the original composit,ons.
Another objective is to
improve it in all its presentational aspects so as to enable the modern audiences to enjoy its musicality and old

time theatrical charm. The Kendra is conﬁdent that by
mak‘ng sustained efforts for a sustained period of time

Ramlila can acquire the status of a real National Opera.
Ramlila in its present from provides an answer to
the present day controversy about tradition versus
modernity. The answer is that something that is beautiful

has the inherent quality of being eternal, transcending
the limitations of time and space. if the story is beautiful, the music is beautiful, it is bound to appeal to all
classes of peOpIe-of all times, past, present or future.

