(1944) which lasted for only four performances. Three years later, his next eﬂ'ort
was far more successful: All My Sons engaged a long run and won the New York
Drama Critics Circle award. Miller followed
it with Death of a Salesman (1919), one of
the major achievements of the modern American theatre. But his career soon was
impaired by personal and social upheavals.
In E950 he adopted Ibsen’s ‘An Enemy of
the People.’ Because of his esponsal of leftwing political causes, he was subjected to

increasing scrutiny by a committee ofthe

United States Congress investigating purported communist inﬂuence in the arts. After
The Crucible opened in l953,

About The Author
Arthur Miller, American dramatist, the
son of a ladies-wear manufacturer, was born
in New York on October 17, 1915 and grew

up in a Jewish middle class Brooklym home.
He became a tall, gaunt, high school Football star. Prevented from going to college
because of the Great-Depression, which
affected his, father’s business, Miller worked
as a clerk in an automobile warehouse for

over two years, an experience he dramatized
in a Memory of Two Mondays (1955), Like
the autobiographical character in that one
man show, Miller read through War and
peace while commuting on the subway and
saved enough from his job to go to Ann
Arbor. The university of Michigan, which
the
he had always wanted to attend, became
Proits
more appealing when he read one of

on,
fessor’s bowke on plav writing. At Michig
dramas
immediately wrote
he almost
and subsequently national
local
won,
that
awards. He graduated in 1938 and later
joined the Federal Theatre Project, New
Yo r k .

Miller’s ﬁrst play to appear on Broad
way was The Man Who Had All the Luck

Miller was

refused a passport to attend the Brussels
premiere of the play.

It is alleged that this

denial of a passport came about because the
play invited comparisons between the Salem
witch trials and what some people believed
was the contemporary
munism.

hysteria over com-

His two short plays under the

collective title—A View from the Bridge was
successfully produced in 1955 which further
created rumors that he was a communist
or

a

communist

sympathizer.

On

June 2|, 1956, he was called before the
House Committee on Un American Activities and questioned about his associatiOn,
during the 19403, with groups

that were re-

puted to be involved with the communists.
While freely a imitting that he had attended
certai 1 meetings, he denied that he was a
commun‘st and declined to name others who

had been present. H: was cited for contempt
of Congress, but the ruling was reversed by
the courts in . 958.
There were also personal upheavals.
His ﬁfteen year marriage broke, up a particularly harrowihg failure to a writer so committed to family loyalties In 1956, he mar-

