Thus the play becomes in eﬂ'ect a
psychological study of an individual who
displaces his serious passion by a concern for

qu: uses of E td 5e Carbone’s incestuous love
for his rightztn year old niece Catharire,
whom h .- adopt-'d after her mother’s death.
Eddie’s wife B e a t r c e hides her cousin 3

honour and family responsibility. In effect.
he resists the very analysis which is the basis
of Miller’s own dramatic strategy, that is
Eddie rffuses to allow his motives to be
stripped b re, he resists the process whereby
his life is to be reduced to a simple passion.
Al hnuph he watches his own betrayal with

Marco and Roiolpho, illegal Sicilian immi-

a kind of de‘ached horror, he feels unable

gr :rits, in the carbons apartment while they
await fo ged papers. Young and handEddie’s unconscious
and she with him.
jealousy drives him to violent outbu'sts of
rage and to sneering cimments about Rod-

to i' tervene, The laWyer/narrator Alﬁeri is
the god to whom he turns for absolution
but in another sense he is simply an objectiﬁcation of his own tortured conscience.
Unable to act he wishes to see himself as the
unwilling victim of the Gods. It is a central

he

irory of the play that it some sense Miller

betrays the two men to the Immigration

concedes this consolation by closing oﬂ‘
Eddie’s own self perception on all but the

About The Play :
The play c Inzerns the tragic conse-

smie, Rodolphe falls in love with catherine,

olpho’s lack of masculinity.

Finally,

Although the young couple’s
authorities
hasty marriage prevents Rodolpho’s deportation, Marco who has wanted only to earn

money for his family in Itlay, must return.

subconscious level.

Compiled by Ajai Malkani from. the
following reference materials—

Enrag=d bv Eddie’s violation of his trust,

Marco appears before Eddie’s house and
demands vengeance for Eddie’s cowardly
betrayal. Catherine and Rodolphe, fearing

1.

bloodshed, plead with Eddie not to answer.
But, Eddie, also bound by Marco’s concep-

2.

tion of honour, can’t ignore the accusation

at Marco’s hands.

Graw ——- Hill

Encyclopedia

of

W irld Drama, Vol 3.

The Oxford Companion to the Theatre.
(New Edition)

3.

made against him and must face Marco to

preserve his pride. Beatrice hysterically
blurts out Eddie’s real motive for the betrayal. his repressed love for Catherine. Eddie,
unable to face the truth and compelled to
face his accuser, runs into the street to die

Mc.

4.

Drama—An EncyModern World
clopedia by Myron Matlaw.
A critical introduction to 20th century
American Drama. VOL. 2 by C. W. E.
Bigsby.

5.

Arthur Miller, Collected Plays. London.
1958. etc.

