newi

E’:"l‘AI’»IiISIIEI) in 1987), Theatre (K;
'Illlevision Associates specializes in the
performing and visual arts, television
projects. and other cultural activities.
Eminent personalities like $.Alkazi, MI“.
IIussain, (iiUYilNl Nihalani, Saryu I)oshi.
Tyeb Mehta and other persons are
associated with Theatre & Television
Associates on various projects.
Over the past 1 5 years, TTA has
attempted to explore different aspects of
Indian culture, to project a modern
ii'idigenous sensibility in the disciplines

like theatre and dance. painting among
other ﬁelds.
Their recent theatre productions include
(lirish Karnad’s Nagamandeda. Satish
Alekar's Begum Barre, Prashant Dalvi's
(Via r ('haagi, Brecht 's Mother (‘aurage
and Shakespeare's King Lear which
derive their inspiration from traditional
forms of Indian Theatre.
TTA 1188 also produced documentary
serials like Indian Art (1' .llmlernism and
Raj Se Siearaj.

Abﬁéit
( ‘IIAR ( ‘haughi deals with the life and
choices of four ordinary women. The
father is separated from the mother and
lives with his first wife. The daughters
Vinita, Vaiju and Vidya the college
professor have their own problems.
Vidya‘s husband is involved with another
women. Vaiju’s husband has lost his job
and needs a new one. They all meet at the
mother‘s house to discuss their problems.
The youngest daughter Vinita has a deep
friendship with a youth Pradeep. But she
is also friendly with another youth
Vi rei u l ra .
Eecause of her husband’s infidelity, Vidya
decides to seek separation from him. She
demands the custody of their child and
begins to take stock of the affairs in a
detached manner.

In the meanwhile Vaiju’s husband
Shrikant quits the next job which he got
on the rec<immendation of her father. On
Vmita’s birth day both Wrendra and
Prakash propose to her. Vinita wants to
marry both of them and the family is
shocked at the news. She gives time to
Prakash and Virendra to reach their
decision.
The play ends in a quiet note. Vldja loses
the custody battle and loses the child. In
Vinita’s case, though Wrendra is not
averse to her idea Prakash opposes it. As
she cannot marry both of them and
doesn’t want to marry either ”irendra or
Prakash, she rejects both of them.

Director's
I’RASIIANT Dalvi’s four women in (‘har

(‘haughi are in a sense heirs to the legacy
of the warrior—women one can find in
similar plays like Ramesh Bakshi’s
Devi/an i Ka her/ma Ila i, Mohan Rakesh’s

Adhe i-ldh are and 'I‘endulkar’s Khamoxh.’
i ladata t Zari 11a i.
Each of the four in (‘har (‘llaughi,
exercises a choice as to how they can lead
fulfilled lives, demanding that the

relationship with the man be on their
terms. 'I‘hey fight for the principle of
equality, not just in the bedroom but in

their workspaces as well, finally
challenging the courts by fighting against
unjust laws pertaining to women.
These women find strength from a sense
of female bonding, which extends beyond
the family to include those thousands of
women out there in similar situations. As
the eldest daughter V1dya says; Widely in
the court, when I saw all those women
1(‘(IIiiIIgﬁH' their divorce suits to he settled, I
realized that what त्मा' shared was thepa in
of the same shattered dream - the dream of
to i ‘e.

Neither the Mother, Vidya, Vaiju or Vinny
are silent, numbed or bewildered. nor do
they rant of lament incoherentl' as their
predecessors did about the loss they have
experienced in their interactions with
men. They are rational, clear thinking,
articulate and stirred to act, towards
piecing their lives together. They continue
to exude strength of will to live on. albeit
alone, in a world without men, after
emerging from the emotional morass of
their entangled relationship.

