मिNaseer', Kher', Neena
Gupta at theatre festival
The Times of lrrdia Theatre Festival is set to make a
return on Friday showcasing plays that feature big
artistes such as Naseeruddin Shah, Anuparrr Kher,

Neena Gupta and Ira Dubey. The festival will be held
at the Jyoti Nivas College in Koramangala. The event
is an initiative of Times Red Cell. .
\

' THE TIMES OF‘ INDIA “J

THEATRE
F E S T | V A L
स्म UTAH??? @F स्साहुँट्टतृफ्लारें
The festival kicks off with internationallyacclaimed
play 9 Parts ofDesire, written by Iraqi-American playwright Heather Raffo. Directed by Lillete Dubey, the
play is a solo act, with Ira Dubey playing nine Iraqi
women. The play details the lives of these nine wornen that span the decades between the ﬁrst and second Gulf wars and delves into the rrrany conﬂicting
aspects of what it means to be a woman in a country
overshadowed by war. A uniquely intimate and feminine point of view on the ramiﬁcations of violence,
the play makes these rich monologues transcend
time. space and politics.

he festival culminates with Hindi relationship drama Meta
Matiab Woh Nahin Tha. Sometimes in life,the results of our
endeavors maynot match with its objectives At suchtimes,
we can only shrug and say, “Mela Woh Matiab Nahi Tha...". the
play revolves around two such peoplewho didn't nrean to hurt
each other, but eventually did. In the autumn of their lives, 35
years later. they meetagain to discover the tnrth behindtheir
separation. Mera Woh Matiab Nahi Tha... poses many questions to
the audience while enthralling them in a web of wit and a range
of emotions. Written and directed by Rakesh Bedi, the play starring Anupam Kher and Neena Gupta marks its premiere in the
city.
Tickets are available at www.bookmyshow.corn and www.indianstage.in

SEPTEMBER 26, 7 PM
otley Productions will
Mstage Gabriel Emmanuel's
Einstein. Being staged in
thecity for thesecond time,this
solo performance has Naseeruddin Shah playingthe titular role of
scientist Albert Einstein. While the
markers thatsignify the onslaught
of age— absent-mindedness,
bland nourishment, anda halo
ﬁrmly in place — contribute mnning gags to theproceedings, Shah
isn't so fargone in decrepitude. Instead, he is a rather adroit and vital
presenceon stage. lighting up as a
bulb in moments of clarity. rushing
in on new insights fed by a still fer‘
tile imagination, despite such embellishments as a shuffling gait or
a sporadically arthritic demeanor.
Quite interestingly. the dry opacity
oflreavyduty scientiﬁctheory isre
duced to nuggets of worldly wisdom — bitesized pr‘ofundities as
easily applicableto everyday situations as home truths.

