Rama Natakam
by Tirunagar Anantha Daasakya
Direction: BHAGAVATHULA SETHURAM, Sri Kuchipudi

Nritya Nilayarn, Hyderabad
Synopsis

Rama Natakam, depicting the story of Uttara
Ramacharita in the form of Yakshagana, was written by
Sriman Tirunagar Anantha Daasakya and is said to have
come into prominence in the 17th century.
The story is divided into seven acts. The play starts
with Rama’s crowning ceremony. On heaaring the
charge against him from a washerman, Rama sends
away Seetha with Lakshmana in a bid to banish her.
Seetha receives the protective care of Valmiki in whose
ashrarna she gives birth to twins Lava and Kusa, who
are brought up by the sage. The boys catch hold of
the sacred horse of Aswamedha sent by Rama. The
three younger brothers of Rama fight with the twins, in
vain, to secure the release of the horses. Finally Rama
himself attacks them without knowing their identity. He
too falls down unconscious in the fight and Valmiki
brings him back to his senses. The Sage introduces the
children to Rama and at last the King accepts Seetha
and his children.
In the present performance only a part of the script
is being presented in three scenes.
Scene I
After the invocation, there is an interlude dialogue
(Sandhi Vachana) by the Sutradhara which informs the

audience about Rama coming to know of the
accusations through a messenger. Here the play begins,
with the meeting of King Rama with his three younger
brothers. Rama informs them about his intention of
sending Seetha to the forest and asks each of his
brothers to carry out the task. While Bharatha and
Shatrughna refuse to do it, Rama turns to Lakshmana
and after a lot of argument orders him to do it. .
Scene II
The scene starts with the entrance of Seetha De/i,

glowing with happiness. Lakshmana enters with a
heavy heart and without revealing the actual purpose,
takes the unknowing innocent Seetha and leaves her in
the forest. Here we have a Sandhi Vachana, which
informs the audience about Seetha giving birth to Lava
and Kusa in the hermitage of sage Valmiki. Scene 111
starts after a gap of a few years.
Scene [II

The twins grow up under the sage’s loving care and
make Seetha nostalgic by singing the life of Rama, as

