Prahlada Vijayam
by Sri Vedala Tiru Vengala Charyulu & Sri Vallikeli
Ramanuja Charyulu
Direction: VEDANTAM RA'I'I‘AIAH SARMA,

Old students of Siddhendra Kalakshetrarn, Kuchipudi

Introduction
Prahlada is a story of devotion. This legendary story was
rendered into an Yakshagana by Sri Vedala Tiru
Vengalacharyulu and Sri Vallikeli Charyulu. The great
pioneer of Kuchipudi, Sri Chinta Venkatramayya, had
set the music and dance and staged it at several places
and won the admiration of the audience.
This Yakshagana is preceded by Purvarangarn. In this
the performance is initiated with blessings and
namaskararns as enunciated in Bharatanatyam. The
stage is sanctified with the sprinkling of holy water and
it is succeeded by Kolams on the ﬂoor, installation of
the ﬂag of Indra, offering Dhoop, light and ﬂowers.
Admiration of Vinayaka and prayers to God or Goddess
are done in this Purvarangam. Then the narrator in his
Characteristic costume appears on the stage and
explains the story and the characters that would appear
soon. The performance of P urvarangam before the
Yakshagana is a characteristic feature of the Kuchipudi
3.1T.

Synopsis
Act I

As per the Yakshagana style a gaternan enters the
stage, introduces himself and proclaims that the king
would soon come to the court. He also requests the
audience to be silent. Soon the king Hiranyakasipu
accompanied by his minister enters the stage, boasts of
his nobility, costumes and his ornaments. He also orders
his men to bring his wife Leelavathi and his son
Prahlada. So Leelavathi along with her son enter the
court. Hiranyakasipu is very glad at his son’s
performance in the court. During his performance, his
son pronounces the name of Hari. On hearing this, the
king becomes furious and discusses the matter with his
ministers. On the counsel of his ministers, Prahlada is
sent to the teacher called Chandarnarkulu for education.
Act II

Prahlada starts learning from his guru Chandamarkulu.
He begins to tell Prahlada about the greatness and
heroic deeds of Hiranyakasipu. Prahlada does not like it
and often pronounces the name of Hari. Prahlada is
asked many a time not to repeat the name of Hari. But
Prahlada turns a deaf ear to this suggestion. Later
Hiranyakasipu orders Chandamarkulu to bring his son to '

