his Royal Palace. So Chandamarkulu proceeds to the
Royal Palace with Prahlada.
A Ct III

Hiranyakasipu is in his court. He asks his son to tell him
about his ‘learning’ from his guru. Then Prahlada says
that one should always pray to Lord Hari, hear about
him and do things for him. Hiranyakasipu becomes
furious and wants to punish the guru. The guru objects
that he did not teach anything to him about Hari. He
also says that he is not at fault and so is not punishable
— Prahlada’s praise of Hari was not preached by
anyone. Hiranyakasipu repents scolding the guru. Then
he treats his son with sweet words and advises him to
give up the Hari Bhajan. But Prahlada does not give this
up. Enraged by his son’s behaviour, the king sends for
the Rakshasas arnd orders them to change the mind of
his son: if he did not change he should be killed.
Act IV

The demons punish Prahlada in many ways. Even then
he stands firm and does not give up his Hari Bhajan.
The demons, while trying to hit on the head of
Prahlada, hit themselves on their heads with the clubs.

They slip away with disgust.
Act V

Hiranyakasipu summons his court to discuss the matter
of his son. For the last time he tries to persuade his son,
but in vain. Meanwhile Leelavathi, the wife of

Hiranyakasipu, persuades him with sweet words. But
he does not change his mind. The enraged king rushes
forward to put an end to his son. But Leelavathi comes
in his way and requests her husband not to kill their
son. Then the Rakshasa king asks Prahlada to show him
Hari. Prahlada says that Hari is everywhere. The king
asks him whether he could show Him in a pillar of the
palace. Prahlada says, “Yes”. Then the king hits the
pillar with his club. Sri Hari emerges from the pillar in
the form of Nrisimha and kills Hiranyakasipu. Prahlada is
made the king of the kingdom.
Cast
Hirankasipu: Vedantarn Rattaiah Sarma

Leelavathi: Pasumarthi Rattaiah Sarma
Prahlada: Chy. V.S. Narasirnha Sastry
Chandamarkulu: J. Mohana Rao & V. Raghava
Rakshasulu: Bh. Rama Murthy & M. Sai Babu

Mantrulu: I.S. Prasad & K. Subrahmanya Prasad
Davvarikudu: V. Venkatachalapathi
Dancers: V. Sailaja 8: Ch. Sudha
Sutradhari: M. Sreerarnulu Sarma

