Bhagavata Mela Natakam:
Kamsa Char-21am
by Melattur Sri Venkatarama Sastry
Direction: S. NATARAJAN, Sri Lakshmi Narasimha
Jayanti, Bhagavata Mela Natya Nataka Sangam, Melattur.
Synopsis
Devaki, wife of Vasudeva and sister of Kamsan , the

demon king ofMathura, is in a mature stage of her eighth
pregnancy. The couple is deeply grieved over the fate
of the expected baby at the cruel hands of Kamsan.
Sage Narada, the divine prognosticator, visits the
couple, consoles them and allays their fears by saying
that Lord Vishnu, the Protector, is Himself growing in
Devaki’s womb to put an end to the cruelty meted out
to them by Kamsan.
Narada, on the other hand, pays a visit to Kamsan to
alert and caution the latter to protect himself from the
danger of being killed by the expected baby of his
sister, reminding him of the anonymous divine message
of the past that predicted Kamsan’s end.
The arrogant Kamsan pounces on Devaki to behead
her. Vasudeva pleads with Kamsan to let his wife off by
reassuring him of the promise to hand over the
expected baby, on birth, to Kamsan for execution as

was done with the previous seven babies.
Reluctantly agreeing, Kamsan chains and imprisons
the couple under tight and vigilant security. A midwife
is also ordered to look after the childbirth.
At the auspicious time, the omnipotent Vishnu appears
only to the sight of the couple in the gaol cell and
narrates the purpose of His incarnation; he adds that He
will take the form of the new-born baby. He tells them
that Vasudeva should leave the baby at Nandan’s house
in Gokulam in exchange for a just-born female baby.
With his divine powers, there will neither be any
hurdle in this task nor would the inmates of the ,prison,
the midwife, the Nandans in the Gokulam or any one
but Devaki and Vasudeva come to know of this “plot”.
Accordingly, Lord Vishnu takes the form of a male baby
when Vasudeva carries out the Divine command.
When the female baby is brought to the prison cell by
Vasudeva, the inmates of the gaol including the midwife
come back to their senses from their mesmerised state.
Noticing a female baby at the hands of Devaki, the
midwife rushes to Kamsan carrying the message.
The cruel Kamsan dashes to the prison and gets hold
of the baby. While being executed the baby disappears
into the air, curses Kamsan and tells him that a baby
boy named Krishna in Gokulam is sure to avenge and
kill the former soon.
Extremely agitated and angered over the Divine

Melattur S. Natarajan
Born in 1943, Shri Melattur

S. Natarajan belongs to the
renowned family of
Bhagavatara who migrated
to Melattur in Tamil Nadu
about four centuries ago
from the village
Komandoor in the Nellore
District of Andhra Pradesh.
Grandson of late Ganesh
Iyer, he was groomed by
masters like Balu
Bhagavatar, K. Ramani Iyer,
G. Krishnamurthy Sarma
and his own father, G.

Swaminathan. He has been
performing since the age of
fourteen and has gained
wide acclaim in his
portrayal of female
characters, such as
Leelavathi, Chandramathi

and Usha. For the last five
years he has also taken to
performing male roles like
Bhasmasura, Dasharatha

and Ravana.
Apart from performing

himself, Shri Natarajan has
made significant
contribution to
Bhagavathamela as a
producer, director and
patron. Under his
leadership as President 8:

Chairman of the Sri
Lakshmi Narasimha Jayanti
Bhagavata Mela Natya
Nataka Sangam, Melattur
several plays of Melattur
Venkatararna Sastry have
been staged, including
those which were not in
vogue. He has been

