TUESDAY 19 DECEMBER 6 p.m.

Vishnu Pallaki Seva Prabandham
by Thanjavur Maharaj Shaji
Choreography & Direction: K. UMA RAMA RAO, Lasya
Priya, Hyderabad
Director’s Note
A profound scholar, linguist, a composer of outstanding
merit, a patron and a staunch devotee of Lord
Thaygesha (Lord Shiva) of Tiruvarur, Shahaji, a

Maharashtrian King, ruled Tanjavur from 1684 to 1712
AD. He made Tanjavur a seat of South Indian culture
— particularly, Telugu culture — patronising music,
dance, literature and Hindu philosophy. He himself
authored a number of works including drama, poetry,
Prabandhas, Padas and a scientific work on Raga
Lakshanas. His Prabandhas in Telugu are three in
number — Shankar Pallaki Seva Prabandharn, Vishnu
Pallaki Seva Prabandham and Pancharatna Prabandham.
The Pallaki Seva Prabandhas, in particular, are
somewhat different from Prabandhas in the literary
sense. These Yakshagana Prabandhas are centered
around Hindu mythology. They utilize music (Carnatic),
dance technique based on Bharata’s Natya Sastra, South

Indian temple traditions, etc. Shahaji blended
Prabandhas of literature and Yakshagana tradition in his
compositions and created Yakshagana Prabandhas. He
used Telugu language for his expression.
Sringara is the predominant Rasa. Mathura Bhakti is
the essence of Pallaki Seva Prabandhas. Gods and
Goddesses play their parts with human feelings and
moods. King Shahaji treated them with honour and
dignity with his rich imagination, preserving aesthetic
and spiritual values.
In Shahaji’s time and afterwards for some years,
Pallaki Seva Prabandham (Shankara) was performed in
the temples in Tanjavur District as a temple ritual. It
was a kind of temple service mainly entrusted to
temple Devadasis especially at Tiruvaruru temple,
where the presiding deity was Thyagesha, i.e. Lord
Shiva. When the deity was taken out in a chariot around
the temple streets, Shankar Pallaki Seva Prabandham
used to be enacted by temple Devadasis. A feature
worth mentioning was that female dancers enacted
male roles also with little change of attire. As the main
theme of the Yakshagana based on Vipralambha and
Sambhoga Sringara Rasa, centered around beloved lady
friends (Ishta Sakhis) of the heroine, Lasya technique, a
graceful and feminine aspect of dance, was utilized.
Shahaji had given fine literary and musical treatment
with superb handling of Telugu in these compositions.

