WEDNESDAY 20 DECEMBER 6 p.m.

Bhagavadajjukkz’yam
by Bodhayana
Choreography & Direction: RAJA & RADHA REDDY,
Natya Tarangini, Delhi
Synopsis
This is a satirical drama written by Bodhayana around
the advent of Christian era, with a stress to ridicule and
make fun of the living styles of Buddhist monks who
came into its fold not by love of it but as it offered an

easy livelihood.
Vasantasena, a charming courtesan, wanders in the
garden in her casual routine enjoying the beauty of
nature with her Sakhi. Yamadoota enters the garden
and in the disguise of a snake takes out the life of
Vasantasena leaving her dead on the ground.
Sandilya, a Buddhist monk and an ardent lover of
Vasantasena, is horrified to see her dead and still. He is

totally lost in grief. His Guru Parivrajaka, a true
Buddhist, in an attempt to bring him back from gloom
to enlightenment, preaches Aadhyayanam, i.e.,
Budd/9am samnam gacbbami, Sang/9am samnam
gacbbamz‘and Dbammam saranam gacbbamz‘. . . But
this is of no avail to Sandilya. In turn Sandilya challenges
his guru Parivrajaka to use his powers and bring
Vasantasena back to life. Parivrajaka through his art of
Para Kaya Pravesa drives his own soul from his body
into the still body of Vasantasena. As the transformation
is completed Vasantasena comes to life but starts
behaving like Parivrajaka.
Yama Dharma Raja finds that Yamadoota by an error
had taken out the life of Vasantasena. He orders
Yamadoota to restore the life of Vasantasena.
Yamadoota on reaching the garden is surprised to find
Vasantasena alive and it takes no time to realise that
Parivrajaka is playing pranks. Mischievously, Yamadoota
leaves the soul of Vasantasena in the still body of
Parivrajaka which is lying around. Now it is Parivrajaka’s
turn to behave like vasantasena.
This interchange of souls with the exchange of
bodies leaves a note of mockery and fun and ends
when Yamadoota restores the souls in the respective
original bodies in a melodramatic style.
This play is enacted with the observation of
poorvarangam, etc. as customary of Kuchipudi style of
presentation.

Cast
Vasantasena (Courtesan): Radha Reddy

