SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY
This historical play depicts the greatness ofRajaRaja Chozhan (King of Kings) who had brought the
whole of South India under one monarchy and established the United Tamil Kingdom. His glory and power
mingled with the unparalleled Tamil Culture had spread beyond the Ganges in the North and even beyond the
seas. Far off countries like China took pride to have his envoys.

With the unstinted help of Raja Rajan, Vengi Nadu gets freed from the tyranny of the Western Chalukya
King Rattapadi Sathyasiryan. Vimaladityan rightfully ascends the throne of Vengi.
Vinxaladityan and Princess Kundhavi (the only daughter of Raja Rajan) fall in love with each other.
Raja Rajan is also aware of this which meets with his indirect approval as well.
1
'
Baladevan, a spy ofRattapadi Sathyasiryan who is waiting for an opportunity to win over the Southern ‘
power of Raja Rajan by connivance, pretends and serves as a Politicial Adviser to the Chozha King.
Raja Rajan constructs the big temple at Tanjore as desired by his beloved sister Peria Kundhavai Pratty.
The dance “Arangetram” of princess Kundhavi takes place at the new temple. As aimed at by the spy Baladevan,
Vimaladityan attends the performance as an uninvited guest and gets into trouble. The spy somehow manages to

create misunderstandings between Raja Rajan and Vimaladityan.

A war is thus declared between them.

But Raja Rajan in disguise of a “Rishi” meets Vimaladityan at his war camp and arranges to have a straight

ﬁght between Vimaladityan and Prince Rajendran (Son of Raja Rajan) to avoid blood-shed and mass annihilation.
In the meantime Kundhavi gets a promise from her borther Rajendran to present Vimaladityan before her
without any injuries. Rajendran keeps up his promise and brings Vimaladityan as a prisoner, of course with the
unblemished consent of the latter.
Vimaladityan however faces untold sufferings as a prisoner due to the vagaries of the cunning political
adviser Baladevan. Kundhavi fails in her attempt to convince her father and get the Vengi King married to her.
She does not however lose heart but tries her best to see to the release of her lover.
Raja Raja Chozhan’s birthday helps Kundhavi achieve her object. Tactfully she arranges to release Vimaladityan along with all the political prisoners as the King’s birthday offer.
At the King’s Durbar all are perplexed to see Vimaladityan appear as one of the poets to recite poems in
honour of Raja Rajan. The King is however moved at the excellence of Vimaladityan’s poems.
As a ﬁtting prize for his poems, Vimaladityan demands Princess Kundhavi from the King. The King has

necessarily to accede to the arguments of Vimaladityan.

v

At this juncture, the hypocrisies of the political Adviser Baladevan gets exposed. But everybody is surprised to
know at the end that Raja Rajan was himself fully aware of all the hypocrisies of the foreign spy and that the King
tolerated the evils simply to test the valour, love and other good qualities of his kindreds. The greatness of Raja Rajan
is thus established.

