the dancer
At the root of Mallika's performance is her expertise and
deep knowledge of two forms of Indian classical dance,
Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi from Tamil Nadu and
Andhra Pradesh respectively. As a young woman she won
international awards for her classical dance, and she is still
learning items from her gurus, some of which she alone in
the world can perform.
Even in these forms she has rejected items which she
feels stem from overtly patriarchal periods and which
represent women as subservient and has put together

pieces celebrating the strength of the goddesses of the
Hindu pantheon.
This is still the main element of her performance life,
whether at international festivals or local cultural events,

the warmth and life with which she irnbues these forms
keeps her much in demand.
; p R‘CHMQND

the artist
KA Y J AM l E S f) N

Mallika Sarabhai is a performer and creator of many
talents. Her career has developed from being a young,
internationally acclaimed, classical dancer and film
personality, to being an activist and commentator on

social issues.

Now an established artist she celebrates positive
reaffirrnation of images of womanhood through dance,
theatre and writing. Following the rich and inspiring
model of her mother Mrinalini, Mallika has placed herself
firmly at the cutting edge of Indian dance and dance
theatre.

In a culture which favours conservatism she wields the
vocabularies of Indian traditions as trenchant tools to
sculpt new reactions in her audiences. As dancer,
actress, choreographer, writer, or instigator of

Deeply rooted in Indian cultures, but open to the
influences of her collaborations around the world she
has synthesized her experiences to become one of the
most exciting creative influences in India today. Dynamic,
charming and dry-witted, she is a rare creature in the
arts.
क्लत्पा यांनुख्यात्मा

Mallika is co-director of Darpana Academy of Performing
Arts in Ahmedabad, where she co-ordinates the training
of hundreds of students in dance, theatre, puppetry and
musnc, and directs the Darpana Dance Company, Janavak
Folk and Tribal Dance Company and Darpana for
Development. It is a unique centre for the arts which has
performed all over India and all around the world.

i- A की ८अं." N

community projects she challenges audiences to sit up
and think, realign themselves to questions of ecology,
woman’s place in society, gender awareness, cultural
atrophy, the very place of the arts in our society.

For Performance Booking & him/manor)

DARPANA ACADEMY OF PERFORMING ARTS
Usmanwa} Ahmdabad 380013 'प्राप्ति
स्था 0/9, 445189 Telefax 079 6568955
Ema” MN) PUBQSMI SPRINTRPQCOM

