the theatre-maker
Just as her choreography looks at issues of social

importance, Mallika's theatre work has evolved into a
new and vital form of challenging people's
preconceptions. Using her natural charm and wit, a
strong voice and her ability for story telling and for
directly addressing her audience with conviction, as well
as her movement and dance skills, serious subjects have
been tackled in a burst of refreshing work.

a
Z
c
के
E
C

During her performance as Draupadi in Peter Brook’s
“Mahabharata”, she became aware of the need to make
strong and positive statements about images of Indian
womanhood, to counter the often misleading accounts
by male commentators, and this led to her creating
“Shakti - The Power ofWomen" in London which
subsequently toured Britain, Holland and India. lts
reappraisal of mythological, historical and contemporary
female figures had a stunning effect on audiences and
quickly led to a second piece,“Sita’s Daughters”, which is
an even harder hitting (although often very funny) piece
about women who refuse to accept an oppressive
system.This piece has performed all over India from
slums to metropolitan festivals and has been invited to
Singapore, USA and Britain.
Using similar skills she teamed up with Nigerian
performer Peter Badejo to throw light onto matters of
cultural manipulation in the highly successful “ltan Kahani
- The Story of Stories", and, the most ambitious project
to date, a new piece blowing some fresh air through the
subject of why we commit violence “V for."

the community artist
the choreographer
In Indian Dance there is no great tradition of creative
choreography. It was Mrinalini Sarabhai who first used
the Bharatanatyam vocabulary to speak of other moods
and themes than the traditional devotional ones. She
talked of bride burning and of pollution in her dance
dramas. Mallika performed in these and absorbed the
ideas but it is only in the last few years that she has
started to choreograph herself, her company and even
her mother. As she started to crystallise what it was she
wanted to express through her work she drew on many
elements to create her choreographic vocabulary. Of
course the elements of her classical dance were there,
but so were the rhythms and steps from the work of her
folk dance company. She studied martial art forms from
South India and from North East India, she observed and
stylised everyday movements and gestures until she
could create pieces which react to communal violence in
India (Mean Streets on Earth), which celebrate rituals

behind her dance (Thattukazhi), or the rites of passage of
a woman (Ceremony I). In these, and many more, she is

still experimenting with other musics, with video
accompaniment, with rnulti arts forms, in a very real

sense these interdisciplinary works are deeply in the
tradition of Indian performance, and now these works

too are being invited around the world.

In recent years Mallika has managed to apply her artistic
talents to her desire for social change in a series of
unique projects.Working with teams of her most
experienced Darpana performers, she has instituted
programmes of using the performing arts to examine
gender awareness in schools, environmental issues in
schools, aids awareness in slum areas and witch killings in
rural areas.These interactive projects bring artists
together with sociologists, scientists and local people to
make challenging programmes often leading to
community performance.

jAGRUTl runs in Ahmedabad's schools for 6th, 7th and
'
8th grade students.The project attempts to make
children take an activist's role to stop or to combat
environmental destruction and degradation. Each subject,
like water pollution, recycling of garbage and noise
pollution is introduced through a specially written Bhavai
p l ay.
THEVALUE PROJECT is involved in conducting a pilot
study in some schools on the introduction of the
teaching ethics using a new look at folk stories from
around the world through traditional story telling
methods. Children have to address the hidden agendas in
stories and develop their oWn stories dealing with moral
dilemmas.

PARIVARTAN is a three year project running in the tribal
areas of Gujarat, aimed at changing attitudes towards
women and issues involving women, like literacy, the
right to property and the right of choice in their own
lives.The project involves creating a group from amongst
the tribal, and training and equipping them to be actoractivists.

