The Indian Computer Scene

How are computers going to affect his life?
ln countless ways. But let’s take one concrete
example.
Electricity reached his village over ten years
ago. But there’s such a shortage of power
that he has to revert to kerosene lamps half
t he i i m e .
So what are computers and applications

software going to do? Generate more power?
NoWe ’1] leave that to the new thermal. hydel
or nuclear projects.

What CMC can do is design software that

lndonet, lndia's ﬁrst national information

makes the most effective use of available
power. That ensures continuous power free

network, Operating through fourth
generation systems from Bombay, Delhi,

from voltage and frequency fluctuations. lhat
reduces losses in transmission and
safeguards the security of the system. At the
most economical price and the least
ecological cost.

Madras, Calcutta and Hyderabad, lndonet will

Castles in the air? Hardly. Under a UN.
sponsored project called Interact, CMC was
given the signal honour of leading teams
from 2 1 nations and has already developed a
real - time system for electric power
management. Not to mention on- line
systems for railway freight management.
And a satellite image processing system for
meteorological applications.
So you see what our power package could do
is help him to get a constant supply of
electricity, Truly, the scope and possibilities
for designing relevant and highly useful
software in the core sectors are inﬁnite.
Which is why CMC is busy working on

eventually link 30 major cities in the
country. Catering to the entire spectrum of
users in scientiﬁc, industrial, commercial
and rural ﬁelds, it will also be a major means
ofbringing the beneﬁts ofcomputers to you,
tne and the man in the village.

CMC Limited
(A Govt. of India Enterprise)
World Trade Centre

Culfe Parade Bombay 400 005

M LS -' CM C 3 11 61 8 5

Only when the beneﬁts of computers affect
his life and change its quality for the better,
can we say that the Indian computer scene
has come of age. CMC’s role is clear. lt is the
catalyst that must help exploit the full
potential of computers for good. It will use
the latest information technology so that
every aspect of Indian life like agriculture,
education, power, banking, railways and so
on takes a quantum leap and beneﬁts the
people at large.

