trimarain

८७८ .r, 3;. H‘ Till gm» Nt‘Vi 11९३11३ i ‘ i

The meaning gets home
_ after nine years. The play analyses the delicacy
veteran मृactor INEENA GUPTA backI onI stage
llV Rakesh Bcdr. brought
‘
'
Illa/ii' 111/11. directed
.
~
diidtiemitlsihﬂsgiiiigtions and reality and changing relationships that have an intimacy beyond physrcality, Riiii<u GHOSll watched Gupta arid producer Anupam
Kher bring the characters to life
८-1-५५५५

\ Knot: ' ‘

- no. it
.titttltit it iziim n: क्या

'\llt(t" lilt‘ .rird Iciri
I - ^^
. . i_.
ड्डा- ३"दृ'मृहैरेरेएँध्दएँटूड्रै"नुहैंड़ेहूँट्वेट्ठेदृहूँदृ'ड्डूहृड्डेदृ . '"हूँर्द्धड्डेहैंहेड्ड`ड्डेट्सड्रै {it}.
’ '५
.. रवा:.:, -झेहैंड़ेहँट्वेंदृड्डेहँ

'८३९"८६३'."हाँट्वेट्वेगृ.गृड्डू:ड्डेइ'दृड्डूड्डेदृह्रदृड्डूड्डेटूड्डूट्वे;
\

t

o
<
1'1'1
प्रा
(n

i—

THEIR UNREQUITED LOVE OF

t

७बीखप्त

tinii'a\

Klier and Gupta swim through these “ch With scamless ease and perfect timing. And of course special
mention must betirade tif Gupta.who even roletplays
the character of Nigar. Proctam‘s unaccornplishcdWife.
111 a flashback sequence and ittirricdiatcly swin 5 back
to the present in sec-saw scenes ofthe sccon act. It
made the contrast between the two women starkand
perhaps led you to sympathise With the not-sovﬁutsy
l’reetarn. This brilliant role reversal is one of the iglilights and makes us wonder why the ﬂashback of
()itpta’i character Hemti was done in a film project»
ed on to thebackdrop. She would have made foran
equally deft narrator, Multimedia is a good tool to
have in a sctpiece but when you have two strong performers. these frills seem more intrusive and welded for convenience. Perhaps. it was meant to iririi
down the cast but the visuals distracted more than
rcelin the audience in. Also.the higher balconies had
to m edo with a torso view of thefilmed flashback
Kher and Gupta will obviouslybe talked about
as much as people did of Farooq Sheikh and
Shabana Aznii in Tumharr'Amrita. Kher himselfsaid
at the end of the play that he hoped this could run
another 25 years. But the true star ofthis on ‘ in]
Hindi play(the come rare) has togo to writer- ircctor Rakesh Be i who engages the audience with the
‘ right balance ofpoigriancy and humour. his own cortiical interludes etween dramatic moments and his
masterful and easy-to-ear 'alogues. For this play is
about the power of words which indeed takes our
hearts away. It is theclever interpla of dialogues that
not only makes the characters an eating but makes
the play “safely saleable andfundable" despite the seriousness and depth ofcontent A fewjewcls stand out
like.“Memories are sweet but they are pain when
you recall them” or the oneabout "following your destination or destination itself will be lost wondering
who its characters are meant to be.”
n the end. kudos to the director for analysing
the delicacy ofﬁrst love. itsassumption and reality.
changing relationships that have anintimacy beyond
physicality and not giving up the chase, Ever.

tni: believing he must have had a reason for

doing so '1३11१1१111 works onli because of these sellr
probe: into the messes ot the riiirid of tim people
\\ ho are retnsliine \iith theiropen admission of trail
no and their abiding soiileseatni unt‘lers‘tandirigr or
each other
। he leads then criibark on an emotional tuountr
1111: 111 tiieir l!\'L‘\' on the sliami space ora park bench
and ' en slip into thecan lamilianti‘ot ti 11१11-11३०1'11
(out‘le who canso
’ratch and comfort each other.
५11111३1 to their deepest. ugliest ८1१५१८८'९ and rescue each
other back Sometlung that eluded them in their conipromised marital lives In their uiteri‘ening VBJIS
Preetani was trapped by a manipulative spouse while
Herna writhed inan abustie triarnage. Parental oppo
sitititi and a clever concealing of letters and phone
lines by (“'0 culturally different families make You
thank that You are better off tn digital times. But it
nlSO poirits'to a generation which was beholden [0‘
the tradition ot’betng responsible to the roadmap ot
eiders \et who communicated with each other with
all their angst, ardour, sincerity and desperation,
'l heirs है an ode to the tested epistolary tradition of
romance, a literary tool which unfortunatelylimllc
ed Preetam and Heine's practical pursuits. except
rueiltng their longing for each other. The title has
riiu;h to do Willi Preetatns cagiriessand inhibitions
ot’keepuig things to himself and. therefore. leaving
himself open to tritstnierpreiation The tmst comes
in the end when the stmghtforuard and fiery Herria.
the other polarity. becomes unsure and cageyabout
her mm future and mouths thesame line,_.much to
’reetams alacriti',
Needless to 53V Kher and Gupta, both of whom
havea Cinematic body oferccllen सांthis plzvthcir
perrorizir» 1 i r lnlt’ﬁﬂ“ and tainnesr
er flags as thei‘ traverse the graph of emotions.
trom the calmness of afterthought to the explosion
ot'rage, from thesepia-toned lookback to the inirnediacy of the present.from the immensity of their past
lives to the everydayntss of merit moments. Both

दृ

.
.. ,

"

' ' ‘

' “1'

.

K3701.: " T r‘ IA wins,» ५

tit

"Li" rib and seeks a meeting not to! a reunion hill
to one a क्ले ३ ए11।1३ to ,i man who ciryitnistant'e
proved had le ie. doini but lorii‘horii her faith was

५१मि कू 1"T713,11an '९८ ' - .

stVlllk ti

नां
नां

PREETAM SINGH CHOPRA
(KHER) AND HENA ROY
GUPTA) To REASSESS Eric H
THER AND GIVE CLOSURE TO

' L's “here the pi.“
v ti

.h

:o
हुं
Fri
:0

E MEETING IN LODl

G)
>
प्रा
I:
(Ti
2
O

AROUND

i

ever’
Actress NEENA GUPTA returned to stage after a long gap with RAKESH BEDI’s Mora Who Madab
Nahr' Thha
alongside actor Anupam Kher. Gupta shares that she’s never had the 0
pportunity to play such a character in her life while
Bedi says he doesn’t believe in ‘pseudo things’ and neither endorses them. By Team Viva
Lillow does it feel to be back in Delhi
to perform?
Neena: Great (laughs). it is my city.

UWhat was it about the play that
appealed to you?
Norm; Rakesh (director) narफै rated it to mend it is an amazचू irigplay'wnttmaiicralmrgMe
y in Hindi theatre. The storyis of
tlicSc two car-lovers meeting
after 35 years The most beauttful part ofit is that it has all the
५ emotions. it has the rinwirasas
(nine moods). it is not a sad,
- drab story ofold people meet.
ing. it has happy moment as
well as said. angry moments, The
Sct'ncs are written so beautifully
that one inotiient you ie in team
i
r
the next you'll be
~.Z ५८, laughing and life is also
. i like lliaL Plus. anybody
५ can identify with the
scenes. be it a youngster
‘ or an older person
i‘ because emotions are
चे the same for all,

८
..

i Liliow has the woman
, protagonist
been
defined in this play?
centi: she's not
been defined at all. she's
a real woman who has
दुआएं through a lot in
er life. Shes meeting
someone and is bring
herself. 'i here's no
latadu in this play
111111131१11८11ह-1111ष्ट play
kit! Ieri' Inn limit. It's a
simplestory Wllll diflt'r
cnl nimticitu that range

…

from happiness. sail
and tun 5111111111111
है e
L<Wl|2|l iiupired you to
write aplay’
ink“). My ptltlit’
cinnlitiii um "क्या lots

it ix .r spill, \‘rllhll inter ९.५1 111४111111८ ५

111९'112३५11'1९'६11"1111111८1८11 in 1.11 ५1.11-,1८'

There is abautiful line in theplay where
Neena says, “35 sale ha guye[Ltd/1H hue
aur mei'n yehi socliri' rah ki' tumne
muﬂrku dhoka di‘ :2 par mere diI kn 2k
korm humesha rta mha Idrum arsenal
ha." She's lived in adilemma that he was
sudt a wonderful man and he left her
but still a part ofhcr heart says that he
couldn‘t have done that. Now. she is
going away from this country forever
and no longer wantsto spend nest ofhcr
life with thesimilar emotion thathelcft
her and wants to give a clean chit.

ears later. You might have a greatlau
but is there an thing that you'll I e
away from it? There is nothing. it ends
there. But as a theatre crsori. l alwa 5
choose work which
i show the u lie a mirror to look into and tell t etn
who theyreally areand whether they're
good people or not, they can decide.
Necna: People after watchin [he
play would say that they can‘t be ieve
what they sawand never thought they'll
be undergoing such an ex erience.
Rakcsh: Last week w on we were
staging the play in Mumbai. four
women from Nagpur ﬂew to Munibai
to watch the play. stayed in a hotel and
left the next day. if it was only about
laughter, would this have happened?

HYouhaven’t lost faith in that person...
Rakesli: if a person, whom ou
loved and admired the most, as
betrayed ou, you will keep pondering
over the t ought that this couldn't have
luppencd and there must be a reason. UW'h an: such playI riot bdngstoged.
Plus गो:": thetwo spent their childhood
can: Because coplc are not
tdgcthcr, grew uptogether and alsotheir writing, The reason w y they are not
love blossomed in adolescente but writing is because even if a person who
when the question of getting married is talented enough to write may work on
(an-re up, everything was over? A man somethin but there is no money, One
can't betray someone like that but thi: would ra cr do TV because you get the
क्याhad no intention to exploit her or money. One has to run their family as
anything.
well. There is no money in theatre. We
have been luc that Anuparn (Klier)
D111: three of you have established
produced this p y andhas put in everyyourselvcs in cinematic ucdlerice,in thing to promote it.
Tv'glnf. Whydid you choose to bring
this delicate emotional interplay DWriting a play is a difficult task
than atheatre production?
because it has a structure.
[giant First. not much has been
Rakesh: Also । don't do anything
mimrn when it comes to Hindi plays in llft.‘ without humour. The humour
and zvcn nowNSD production are still
in this play oscillates with every seri40mg Molian Kakesli's plays or some tcncc.
When you 0 back in memo01h“ adaptations. Who is writing? ry lane. there will be such funny
'11.“; are a few plays being written in moments you'll come across. A lover s
reg-Inna] languages llkt: Tamil. Telugu.
lTIcnlOrlL’s are riot rust ﬁlled ivttli sadKannada. Guiarati or Marathi. This is l’ICSS .
nu, modiurn. 1 arm from .i dr-inia school
and श्याओ had dunctheatre tirrou
CtHow would you rate this characin“ hi, life. Nothing can match it
ter as n performer?
pufmmance.
Nceriu: i don‘t think I've doneany
role so far wltcrc । play wtlli so many
up I, say onlycullltdiu or
tide emotions which are very real. l'vc
in,ng work in cities for 513:. to never got a chance to play allc’ll a
1५१ “mini
character In my it e.
mitt-sh. 1 don't agree Wllll ii at all.
aliesli: hllc pl;in the character
in“ can do .i Lulllit play which might of tic-ma
Roy wrlli fantastic ease and
look-around )tinriihlﬂmqrur H mm]
ritmtrmt Wllltlt you ll think ol L'Vwi It) prace but in the play, she is beyond
iur character.

re you managing your

coﬂeehousetumsmtoacoum'oomand
l'rnappointed as a judge then. There is
a person in tlié play who says that the
amount of common sense that is that:
in a common man is not present in any
other individual and he would also give
acorrect and acommon in
exit. lust
like that. if a thealr'eiwzl
would be
stuck on a his own conviction then it is
a problem.
People would ask me that why did
nicnt.
1 pick astar? But what did the star do?
श्याओ: 1 thought of these two He managed to attract the audlencc and
actors because i needed their star then the stardom is over as the perforpower and their way of thinking. I also mance on the stage would begin. Then
needed theirdiscipline. Werehearsed for the play and the performance has to
two-and- i-liali‘ monthsfor this play and speak.
we used to do it from 10 am to 12 ptii.
All three rifus were always on time.
EIYou used to do television but then
dropped it. Why?
Whatthou: the reception yougot in
Neenn: i cannot work for daily
the US?
soaps because it is :i 24x7 job. That
New; Killllllilf iliii. People went means if [ take up a role today. i can»
CN/i‘ there and it was as crazy as it got not do anything else in life. Also. what
during Mr, Modi's \chblcy speech.
i want to do, the producers and the
R
- When the play got popuannals don't want to do it.
ltir alter [o-ll shows. people realise
that them [5 a great production which llDoyou think there’s adevaluation of
can be mtched, We won.- doing one mass entertainment in TV lndustr Z
show iii \VLshinglon and a woman came
Nacho: i think it is a vicious ci c.
to me ally}: the play and told me that When we started. itwas all so good with
।८"-यध्या७हाय1भा०'1य5णश्रयप्रा१० DD Metro and then: was asense ofcomlicrd 11 ring the show and hadcome with petition where people would say that
.i help she then asked her why wasshe they want to create somethin better.
there and the woman responded with Now. the cost ofproduction is 550 very
"i've tonic ९०listen to the play since l've high. Someone told rm.- to launch a serheard to much about it."
‘ .१10०1'111१ is required for publicity and
Nun“ My niuni-iiivlaw watched other things. The cannot take a risk
the play to, the second time and she's wi i nit:because w itit ifit doesn't work?
91
The money would not return.
Plus. when a show becomes at hit.
LIWliut is your take on theatre rind theystart creating similar shows.
N51) today!What can be dour: to give
it it lift“
EBut indiii has progressed Ind the
Muir; They should do plays like audience doesn't want such shows.
these i \[lm Wlirr Miiilrrlr Nil,“ Tilhﬂ)
People won't trial: to most of the
t Li ugl i ४ i
thirty shown in the shows.
ital“.th 1 don't believe in pseudo
Necria: The do because in lndia.
um. ( आर्ष neither do I endorse them. the mothers-in aw would do similar
i hL'llL'Yr m glmplc thin is and that it things shown in soap operas. l have
within.“ puss" slitiiil
understand heardof incidents from my own famiw rat 1 in trying (0 convey, l have
ly people. Yes thecontent is exaggeratanother “walled .\Iiiiiilii t \U/Ii‘t' I louse cd butdon't think that thesethings don't
MN 1 t|llidw1|llfrllhiftﬂ lii lllUClld,ll|l: happen in society
7

thsh: Once you've written and
finalised the play. you need to do a few
rea
स्थिता We also went to Anupani's
set for one week whenhe was shooting
{0, pm" Rum" Dliiirr Payo becausehe
hadno time. Wheneverhe was free.we
used tomltearse, We even rehearsed in
his vanity van, Such was our commit-

