A wordﬁ'om a Young Director,

Iﬁ'elproud in calling myself'a young Director; but at the same time, alsofeel that thy. .<
pride has been bequeathed on me by my elders who helped me now the same way as they helpew

me to learn walking when I was a toddler. Much before reaching maturity, l have starter?
realising. that a child is a born philosopher, a born creative artist, the only thing he needs is the
gentle, sympathetic touchﬁ'om his elders; a hand that couldpat him, aface that couldgive hint-4

an encouraging smile. Needless to say here I got everythingﬁ'om them and now that I stanbeforeyou, words are betraying me to express mygratitude to such aﬂiectionate elders, my ever
reverredguide, Mrs. Rekhafain, and my lovingparentt.
Nobody in the world can stand alone, leave aside talking ofmarching ahead on one .
own. Even a straw can reach a shore only when it is supported and swayed away by the mighr~
waves. My youngﬁiends who have made all these (forts a success are such mighty waves wh
helped me, may helped us, to reach this destination, My heart reaches to all ofthem wid: a senofgratitude.

Lastly, I will befailing in my duty ifIdo not express my heartfelt thanks to those wh "
helped us in one way or the other, by giving us adds, by making us richer, or by providing 2. a stage, a beautiﬁtl stage to enact ourplays.

GIRGIT
(Written by Aant Chekhov d“ adopted by Safder Hashmi)

IIAIMERA CHANDA
(Written by R N. Tagore é’adopted by Nemi Chandjain)
at

Shri Ram Centre, Mandi House, New Delhi

on Monday 12thjuly, 3993 .................... at 6.30 P. M
Utkarsh Marwah
Director
Painting Competition

Story Competition

On 27th June. 1993
Venue : Sanatan Dharam Mandir.
Pant Nagar, New Delhi-110 014
Dimpy Kaur
First

On 3rd Juiy. 1993
Venue : Sanatan Dharam Manci? दृ
Pant Nagar. New Delhi-110 01८32
Best Story Writer - Rohlt Katg

Second -

1) DemaNIeet Singh

Singing Competition

2) NIdhi Chow

On 9th July, 1993
Venue : Sanatan Dharam Mane:
Pant Nagar, New Delhi - 1 1 O 0‘4
Best Singer - Sonia Bagga

