S. L. ATAL
President, Darpan

The Tale of Six Years
After six years of trials and tribulations Darpan, (formerly The Ambassadors),
Kanpur has ﬁnally found its feet. Having overcome the hazards, the frustrations, and
the struggle for growth, it now blushes with its ﬁrst ﬂush of success.
Richer for the experience we have amassed during many years of toil, we now
wish to share our experiences and adventures with the larger community of the various
organisations engaged in theatre activity. In the belief that the style of others must also
be cramped by similar difficuities, we do not apply ourselves to the matter with any
subjective interest but, would like to forcefully invite attention to certain common problems that are faced by all of us in our respective areas of operation.
It is a welcome thought that our numerical strength of B. N. S. has swelled during
this span of time. It feels good to belong to an organisation with dynamism. It pampers our vanity to feel that we are an important and integeral link of the chain that
binds the theatre in Uttar Pradesh. But it also ﬁlls us with a sense of unwarranted
complacencey, that a times it leads to stagnation. Lulled by a sense of blissful smugness, we are often caught in dilemmas similar to the webs woven by Penelop. By our
thoughtlessness we so quickly undo, what we struggled so hard to create. Demitrius
risked damnation when he stole ﬁre from the heavens, and we shall risk the wrath of the

pundits in a bid to stimulate thinking that might help others to put their activities in
their proper and purposeful perSpective. This can best be achieved by creating a confe—
deration of the various units spread across the vast state of Uttar Pradesh.
We in Uttar Pradesh are proud of Ravindralaya at Lucknow, the auditorium at
Kanpur, Siraz Conference Hall at Agra. While we do not present to you a grand
design for the ediﬁce of Hindi Theatre, yet we maintain that by pooling on together of
resources and sharing of experiences we shall help the Theatre in UP. and ﬁnd the
dimension that it has been searching for, for the last decade.

What is required is a band, a devoted theatre men, committed to the pious and
perhaps essential need of a Hindi Theatre.

It has been our experience that one major hurdle encountered in play production
is the availability of props, sets, curtains, drapes, lights and accoustic appliances and
of course suitable auditorium. In our region where battons and f'ootlights are the
vouge, modern innovations such as spot lights, cyclorama, stage microphone etc are
relatively unknown. We feel that it is the solemn duty of the pioneers to apprise others
of the advantages of employing modern tools and techniques.

