6
has been
c
Our State Governments’ apatheti and at times antipathetic attitude
built
belng
t
movemen
constant source of discouragement to healthy and strong theatre
the
up in this region. The burden of heavy entertainment tax completely cripples
plenty of
incentive in theatre producer. If the theatre is to grow into a sturdy plant,
' fresh air, sunlight and freedom of growth are required.

support.
Theatre movement in Uttar Pradesh is still in its infancy, and needs great
nment
entertai
crippling
the
It is essential that the government should not only withdraw
tax on theatre performances, but should give active support to build a live and healthy
theatre movement. Financial assistance to deserving theatre groups and building , of
auditoriums which could be hired out to theatre groups at resonable rates are the mini३ mum, the State Government could do in this regards. The need for a theater institute
in U. P. , a workshop where aspirants could learn the art and craft of theatre has long
been felt. The Government should lend its support and patronage to efforts aimed in

डा

this direction.

Cultural activity in Kanpur can broadly be devided into
grammes sponsored by impressariors and productions staged
has mostly been a spurt of impressario activity in recent years.
is developing here to invite celebrities in increasing numbers.

two categories viz. proby drama groups. There
An unfortunate tendency
The result is that pro-

grammes of Shakila Banu Bhopali, Md. Raﬁi, Ali Akbar Khan. Pt. Ravi Shanker, and

Gopi Krishan etc. are repeatedly arranged in the city. Consequently the lesser known
artists are usually ignored and get no chance to show their skill. This thwarts the
' development of pure theatre.

‘Darpan’ stands for a growing healthy theatre synthesising the new trends with the
Darpan has always been on the fore-front of theatre activities
' in Uttar Pradesh, and again with the present production it maintains the lead in staging

‘ best Of the old traditions.

the ﬁrst play of the season at Kanpur.

GLORY OF THE PAST
(The following are the impressions of Dr. Raj Bhasin, (when interviewed by the Editor), who
३ played the controversial role of the hero of “Raja Oedipus”, another Sophocle’s tragedy, produced by
‘Darpan’ some months ago.)
Yes ! I played “Raja Oedipus.”

I—a medical man by profession, was Suddenly

called to play the tragic role of the unfortunate King.

How complexible it was ! yet I

tried to enlive it. It was on experimental stage without the modern microphones, sets,
३ lights, innovation and above all it was open from all the sides. But we did play the
‘play.’ Do you remember those golden days? I still do !
——Dr . Raj Bha si11

