l 1
Seek the Truth and not sweet words.

“Young
do not talk with
stand and love
Talk of your art

actors, beware of your lady admirers! You may pay them court, but
them of art. Learn, from your very ﬁrst steps, to listen to, underbitter truth about yourselves. Find out who can tell you that truth.
only with them and let them scold you their heart’s content ”.

Legacy of gold and not sand.
“ When I look back on the road I have traversed on my life in art, I want to
compare myself to a gold seeker who ﬁrst has to roam the wilderness to ﬁnd a streak

of gold, then wash tons and tons of sand and rock to get a few grains of the valuable
metal. And like a gold seeker, it is not my labour, my quest and privations, my joy
and disappointments that I cart bequeth to my descendents but the gold vein that I
had found”.
Prejudice an enemy. !
“The most dangerous enemy of progress is prejudice, for it holds back and
hampers development. And it is this prejudice that I want to combat ”.
Understand the play don’t just see it.
“ Often we see a play without clearly understanding the logic of events and their
dependence on each other. Without it, it is hard to speak of the play’s inner nature ”.
The soul of the theatre.

“ You should ﬁrst come to love the great ideas of the dramatists, the big talents
of actors, the very art of actor.
theatre ”.

Remember, if there were no actor, there would be no
‘

Imitators, Beware !

“ There was a celeberated actor who had many imitators. But he had the bad
habit of nodding. And all his followers, forgetting that he was a gifted man with a
wonderful talent and a marvellous technique, took front him neither of these qualities,
which they could not take, but only his short coming: the nodding ”.
Where are the plays.

in scope
“The tragedy of the present day theatrical revolution, which is greater
actors
the
him
t
Withou
and more complicated, is that its dramatist is as yet ‘unborn’.
and the stage director cart do nothing ”.

When the perf’ortnance is over !
former pangs of
“ This was a moment of supreme joy that repaid for all my
after dangerous illness,
creation. What can I compare it with? With a return to life
How good it is to be an actor in
or with the successful termination of birth pangs.
among actors! They are like a bright
such moments, and how rare these moments are

quest and success”.
guiding star that points a way to further artistic

