- Ed i tor

T H E Y M A K E THE PLAY
(It is very rare when the feelings of the persons who pool their eﬂorts towards staging a
play are taken into account. For theﬁrst time an (fort to this qﬂct has been made. It will probably
be of interest to the theatre goers to share the experience of those who make the play. Here are
the impressions of the personal feelings of the participants of the stage production of Antigone,
which the Editor could record by personal interviews.)
“Conscious of my physical limitations, when I was asked to portray the King
Creon, I was overwhelmed. At the same time I had certain reservations in my mind. It is
a difﬁcult role, I think the most difﬁcult of all; in fact the most complicated role I have
ever played. Am I the hero? Probably I am. ' But I am certainly not the villain. I
long for the moments when somebody tells me you have lived it !
Rakesh Verma as ‘KING CREON’

“Six years ago I ﬁrst went to the stage ३ as Kamini.

Since then I have played

roles of varying nature with some success. I had heard of Antigone but I never imagined

that I COULD be Antigone. ~

"

Today I am Antigone—the virgin» martyr.

.
Probably ' I am of that-age.

But

portraying the feelings, emotions and convictions of the rebel princess, who placed
family devotions above all is a ‘job.’
it. Let me be her! ”

I am feeling as Antigone and puttingrnysoulpinto
_
५
---… Praveen' Atal as ‘ANTIGONE’

The whisper in my ears and a ﬁnger towards me, ‘she can play Ismene’—made

me a little bit alert.

But the next moment I laughed at myself thinking—“How can it

be possible? I How can a woman, who never went to the stage, dare play such an
emotional role”? 'But to my own surprise I said, “Yes I” Soon I began to imagine
myself a sophisticated, digniﬁed and beautiful elder sister of the Greek Princess, with
all her worldly weaknesses and here I am before you with all my sin‘Cerest efforts.
Krishna Nayyar as ‘ISMENE’

“Being a mother, it is not diﬂicult for me to portary eﬂ‘ection for the young
princesses Antigone and Ismene. But the complication lies in the fact that _ am not
their mother, I am just Dai Maa-the palace maid who gave mother’s love to the young
princesses. In my role what perplexes me is the unpredictable attitude of Antigone.
She does love me but ,does not take me into conﬁdence as to what she intends to do and
why.

With all these limitations and complexities I am portraying the simple Dai Maa.

'
I
I
To what extent I succeed in doing so I leave it for you to judge.
Tripta Arora‘as ‘Dai Maa’

