2]
“Haemon ! a prince of determination, love and revolution, little sophisticated,
little stylish, is of the modern style, certainly not, but, of the two thousand ﬁve

hundered and ﬁfty years ago, a Greek style.
1 don’t know, how do you like it l"

Do the performance represent the past?
Krishan Gandhi as ‘Haemon’

“I am an humble actor. I have been taking part in Dramatic performances since
my very cihldhood. I have meeted different roles, and I am glad to mention here
that my roles were liked by my audience. At the time of acting l forget myself
altogether and merge into the role. This time I will be playing the role of a ‘Pehredar’
who is a devoted to his duty heart and soul and who is not afraid of anything in the
world except his wife.
role of a Pehrcdar.

I hope to live up to the expectations of my audience through this

Surendra 'I‘ewari——as ‘Jonas (Pehredar I)’
“It is my maiden appeurence on the stage.

Though, it is shorter role than that

of others in the present concert, yet it can prove even miracle for my stage life to begin
with this role as a Pehredar”.
Satya Prakash Awasthi as ‘ Pehredar II ’
“ANTIGONE, is before you in which 1, an ambitious student who has lote for

singing and acting, am playing a role of a favourite Pehredar of the King. The soldier
who believes in ﬂattery of the King and also to his own wife who is more than a boss
for him. I hope that you will appreciate my work though it is a small one.
R. S. Mathur as ‘ Pehredar III ’

“Taragic love, blood and deathml shiver at the mere mention of these words.

And in my present role I am required to paint a picture in these very colours. I am
not new to the stage. l have played many roles—but light, frivolous and funny. The
present one is the first serious role I have ever got. The offer was risky. Some friends
apprehended that the audience might laugh at my tears. But I’m sure that the theatre
loves are not so un-imaginative, unsympathetic and inconsiderate. Are they ?”
Santosh Srivastava as ‘ Mukhbar. ’
“Be it a modern play or an old classics, the light and sound effects can do
wonders. No presentation can be effective enough without these aids. But it is rather
unfortunate that idue attention is not paid to the effect. I am consious of the fact that
my assignment is testing and tedious. But I am not sure how for I have succeeded
in fulﬁlling it.
Shivendra ——Light. & Music Incharge

“Most unenviable is the fate of the Director of a stage play. The success
or failure of his efforts rests largely on the response of his team. He has to face a still
more dismal situation when he takes in hand a play like Antigone-ea Greek tragedy
of the ﬁfth Gentry B. C. Of the Sophoclean tragedies, Antigone is probably the most
problematic work. To depict the ﬁner contraSIing shades of human feelings and their
conﬂict is a testing job.

