22
_

It needs comparatively much less effort “to bring out the conﬂict
between good

and ‘evil. But when one “right stands up against another”, one cannot afford
to be
complacent. Antigone is a great work and staging of a great work is
worth all
the hurdles and handicaps that may. stand in the way of making it live. I cannot
think of
a more intense joy than the one we may have if we succeed to some extent in
doing so.”
(K. K. Nayyar—‘Director’)
“Those who claim to know me better than I do, say that the ‘Theatre is Satya

Murti’s ﬁrst love’.
I do feel that way.

I wonder if it is a compliment, but I only wish it to be true.

The last decade of my humble efforts to bring up the Theatre movement in
Uttar Pradesh has given me conﬁdence to undertake production of the so called
‘impossible plays’. Yes—many a group may not even attempt Antigone. Why have
we? The Theatre in Uttar Pradesh, in my opinion, should now look mature, think
mature, and act mature.

It goes

to the credit of Darpan to have staged the Greek

tragedy. Raja Oedipus and now comes Antigone, another Greek tragedy by Sophocles.
Probably no other group in U.P. would have‘done it. Great works pose a great challenge.
One must have courage and conviction to accept it. We are amateurs, so in many ways
we are handicapped. What then is the source of our strength ? — Our faith in playing
neat and playing well. Antigone does have this strength.”
1‘ ‘
4
Satya Murti — ‘Secretary General, Darpan.’
“Though a fine art, to play a ‘play’ is a most . mechanical job. ३ It requires hard
labour and toil, untiring patience, daily routines of practices, rehearsals, repetitions
of dialogue, collaboration of music, light effects, sound arrangements and what not !
In the present age of chaos and disintregation. nobody can be sure of anything, but
the team of Antigone is ! I have been seeing them daily assembling for rehearsals as if
performing some sacred duty since the last two months or so. Daily they are putting
their hard labour of hours. putting their blood, their souls,

to achieve the utmost out of nothing.
amateurs.

their selves into it trying

No resources are at their command.

No Government aid, no appreciation.

They are

Instead they have apprehensions,

doubts, criticism, but still they are looking forward with a new hope which is an
outcome of their love for art and faithfulness for the organisation. In these days I
have seen ‘Atal Saheb’ who showers his blessings of approval with the, kindest smiles.
I have seen ‘Nayyar’——a mart with a dynamic voice, man with a will, thinking about
‘Antigone’ every moment of his past two months.
( Prof.

Satya

everything.

Murti ) - always

helpful. fresh,

1

untired,

have

seen

combining

“Master Sahab”
everything

with

Till late in nights they are discussing about the new and old trends, deciding

important factors. They want to do and lo ! they have done it. Though most thankless
of jobs they have made a ‘job’ out of it and l am pioud to represent here their achievements, the fruits of their hard labour and herewith am inviting you, all of you, to share
their joys and successes.”
Krishan Gopal ‘Abid’»— ‘Editor’.

