ABOUT THE PLAY

On the one hand, Chuhara has an

evil

eye on Chandra while debauchee Suyonga

Raja Salhesa, the king of Mahisautha is
renowned for his public welfare motives
He holds court to hear grievances of peo-

ple from different strata of of society,
Buddheswara is his younger brother and
Rani Satyavati his wife.
Kusuma is the youngest of the four daughters of Raja Maheswara Bhandari of Tarega~

nagarh situated on ancient lndo-China border, She admires Salhesa from an early age
of twelve. Salhesa also wants to adorn his
personality by the love of Kusuma. They
offen meet in jungles where Salhesa is

generally out to solve the problems of his
people. In this noble work, Kusuma also
assists Raja Salhesa.

wants to abduct all the four daughters
of Maheswara Bhandari, including Kusuma.
His intention is to expand the size of his
kingdom through the exploitation of the
sharp intellect of Kusuma sisters. Hence
Suyonga comes up as a challenge to
Salhesa. This challenge aggrandizes when
Suyonga captured Buddheswara who was
en route to Pakaria. Cunning Suyonga
puts a condition that Budddheswara would

be released only if Salhesa surrenders him
self. Salhesa accepts the condition and
so he is put in the jail, Buddheswara is
freed. After some time, one day under
Kusuma's leadership Buddhheswara with
his soldiers attacks the army of Kirateswar
(of kirat kingdom) Suyonga is defeated
and is forced to be captive. Disheartened
Suyonga begs pardon and is forgiven by
king Salhesa.

Raja Manchandra is the ruler of Pakaria,
Commander-in-Chief of his army (Senapati) .
८ In the meantime, Chuhara is compelled to
Chuharmal has a bad motive towards
quit his post of Commander. (senapati).
Chandravati the single issue of Raja ManOffended by this act of Manchandra, chuchandra. Chandra, on the other hand,
hara
look
desperately for a chance to take
likes Buddheswara Chuhara has a thieves
revenge.
At last, he succeds stealing
who help in carrying his gang of trained
'MAHALATA' from the royal treasury of
plans.
Manchandra, Buddheswara who was app-

Disturbed by Chuhara’s increasing interference, Manchandra seeks support of Raja
Salhesa. Salhesa assures Manchandra and
asks him to go back to Pakaria having no
fear. Buddheswara is ordered to accom-

ointed at Mahisautha is sent to prison.

bound by his promise. Salhesa has to go

to Pakaria to be imprisoned there.

'

Although Rani Satyawati is melancholy
because of the affair of his husband with
Kusuma, she requests Kusuma to help at

pany Manchandra for his safety with a
small force. Salhesa promises that if any
damage is done to Manchandra's treasury,

this juncture

he would be ready to be imprisoned till
the. damage over come.

to rescue Raja Salhesa Sharpminded Kus
urna regains the stolen 'MAHALATA' from

Kusuma assures satyawati

