DIRECTOR’S NOTE

We have a good amount of historical proof
regarding ’Sawarna' regimes but such proof
is missing as far as ‘Dusad' Kings like Raja
Salhesa are concerned
All these facta
inspired me to focus Raja Salhesa as a hero
This play, candidly speaking, is a result of
our perseverence. The message carried by
the play is centered to bring up the personality of Raja Salhesa and to expose his

Who was Raja Salhesa ? What was his
duration? These questions have vague
answers due to the lack of palpable historical facts. We find, however, an elaborate
description of the king in the folk-songs
sung by the lower people of Mithilanchal,
North Bihar, There are found.some status

wearing

doublet and having

bow-arrow

and trisul around the eastern front of lndo-.

Nepal border.

These statues are worship-

pertinent ideas concerning balance of regional powers as well as attachment to
water, woods and land. Besides, I have
tried to search the tender affection between
Salhesa and Kusuma in new perspectives,
Hence, some liberty has been taken from

the original folk tale.
On question has always tormented my
feelings - why there is a distance between
theatre of North and South Bihar.? The
subject matter of Raja Salhesa is of North

society. The idea to get a script written
on this 6th 7th century king came into my

Bihar while presentation is inspired by
chhau dance of Saraikela (South Bihar)
and also by regional movements, sounds
and mudras. This experiment would bridge

mind because of three reasons: (1 ) Salhesa

the two culturers

was a shudra by caste (2) His attachment to
water, forest and land and his concepts to

I have been absolutely attached to this

ped by poor and downtrodden status of

envioronrnent are very relevant today,
(3) Salhesa was a follower of saivism while
his beloved Kusuma followed Buddhism.
Religion also became an obstacle on the
path of their meeting.

l wish.

project right from script« writing till the
final presentation So, my attempt has been

to bring out the nature and form of presentation directly from the content. I have
rather tried to catch the spirit that prevails

