Yuva Rangmanch :An IntroduICtion'

bases. A branch of the group is running
smoothly in Chandrapura (Giridih).

I o‘b -’
I

An intensive theatre worhshop was organised at Birla Institute of Technology (Mesra)
Ranchi under the guidance of National
School of Drama, New Delhi in 1981 with

The founder director, Sri Ajai Malkani
Bipin KUmar and Rajesh Kumar Jais are

graduates from renowned National School
of Drama while Shyrnlal and Prabhat Kurnar

some young artistes trained in the work-

Prabhakar have recieved training from the
dept. of Indian Theatrer Punjab University

shop, Sri Ajai Malkani formed YUVA RANG

(Chandigarh) and Bharatendu Natak Acad-

MANCH.

erni ,Lucknow respectively,

Majority of them are educated

unemployed coming from tribal and backword populace Also are associated Engineers, journalists, teachers, industrial workers and rural youths.
Who are aware
enough to replace religions bigotry, orthodoxy and chronic exploitation of the weak

with modern concepts. Thus, marching on
the path of change for betterment. In
short, the group intends to motivate cornrnon people througn

theatre

and

cultural assets ascertaining their
participation in the
of the nation.

other

active

Indeed, Yuva Rangmanch—an organised
machinery - is the sole ’rnother organis
ation' in the field of art and culture in ‘ South
Bihar.
This group is actively engaged
disseminating theatrical training and rese—
arch -to this very region, Besides, it is
prominently striving for experimental innovations in modern Indian theatre
The
group has been conducting training, experiment and then presentation of fine art and

classic

dances

(particvlarly

kathak) in

constructve projects

association with Haren Thakur, Sarrnila
Thakur and Manju Sinha respectively.

H'tiherto, the group has organised fourteen

workshops in this tribal region and has

Yuva Rangmanch is going to establish a
cultural complex and Regional Theatre

trained about 200 budding talents These
workshops have been organised in colla-

Repertory at Ranchi so that theatre li
nked

botation witc central culture Department,

with Nagpuri, Mundari, Kurukh, Santhali,
Ho and other folk languages of this region

N S.D., North Central Zone Cultural Centre,
Central Sangeet Natak Acaderni, lspat Club

could be developed.

(Mecon), Bokaro Steel Plant etc. It has su-

patronise, folk literature and culture an
d
also encourage research on the same. We
are resolute to provide a healthy theatr
e to

ccessfully given a scientific dircetion to the
theatre— movement of, South Bihar by stag —
ing 200 shows of a couple of dozen‘ plays

which were inspired by both rural and urban

The group would

also undertake programmes in

order to

the peopla and expect response from the
m

in same pace.

