THE NATIONAL SCHOOL OF ”DRAMA & ASIAN 'I"HEA'I‘RE INSTITUTE
THE NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA & ASIAN THEATRE INSTITUTE. set up in 1959 by the
Sangeet Natak Akademi (the National Academy of Music. Dance and Drama. established by the Government oi"
India). provides a comprehensive three-year course of training in dramatics. It is located at Rahin‘dra Bhavan.

Fero7eshah Road. New Delhi.

( ‘ourses
For the ﬁrst year the course 01‘ study is comnton to all students and consists ot‘ instruction

in

Dramatic

Literature (Eastern & ‘Western) and the theory and practice of Acting. Scenic Design, Costume Design. v'l ighttng
Make—up and Theatre Architecture.

The third year is devoted to specialisation in any one of the following ;
. (i)
(ii)

(iii)
(fr)

Direction
Acting

Stage Craft
School I‘)ramalics. 1.<.. training in the teaching ol drariiatics to school children and in the
grtaet-hogd of using dramattcs as a medium of instruction.

Specialisation in Radio & Television is also contemplated when circumstances permit.

Minimum Qualiﬁcations
On the whole the School gives preference to candidates who already have a university degree.
This is
essential for those who wish to speCIalise in Direction or School Dramaties. For those wishing to take Acting or

Stage Craft. the minimum qualiﬁcation IS S.S.C.

Schol arshi ps
Each year the School offers l2 scholarships ot‘ Rs. 200 pm. Subject to satisfactory progress. this scholarship is given for a period of 3 years.
In addition. the Union Ministry ol‘ Education ol‘l‘ers. as part 0l‘ llS- Cultural
Scholarships Scheme. two to three scholarships each year. These are of Rs. 250 pm. for a period of two years,
extendahle to three years. Prospective students may also try to qualify for these scholarships.
५
Further some State Akademies also olTer scholarships ot'Rs. 200 or Rs. 250 pm. to deserving candidates.
from those states.
For example the Mysore ' State Sangeetha Natalka Academy and the .lammu & Kashmir
Academy e.‘ Art, Culture and Languages. have been olTering such scholarships.
'

