ABOUT THE PLAY
Written:

1944-45.

First performanct’ :

In English, Northﬁeld, Minnesota. 1948.

In German, Theatre

am Schiﬁbauerdamm, Berlin. June 1954.

Based on the old Chinese play, The Circle of Chalk. which was successfully adapted by Klabund in
Germany in the 19205. Prologue. Towards the end of the Second World War members of two collective farms
in Soviet Georgia are in dispute about a tract of land that used to belong to the advancing Germans. The neighboring collective farrn, specializing in fruit-and wine-growing, has planned an irrigation scheme for which the land
in question would be essential. After discussion it is decided to let the fruit farmers have the land ; their plan is
likely to make it more productive. To illustrate the ethics of this decision a Georgian folk singer is invited to sing
the old legend of the Circle of Chalk.
In feudal Georgia a long time ago, there once lived a rich Governor with his wife and little son. On an
Easter Sunday the barons rose in revolt against the Grand Duke and murdered his Governor. In the panic the
Governor’s wife ﬂed, leaving her little son behind. A kitchen maid. Grusha Vakhnadze, saved the child and took
it with her into the mountains. To conceal its identity and to give it shelter and a name Grusha consented to marry
a rich peasant in the last stages of a fatal illness. But after the wedding the dying man revived. He had only pretended to be ill to avoid being recruited for the army. Now the war was over, Simon the soldier, Grusha‘s ﬁance,
returned from service and found Grusha married and mother of a child. Before she could explain the situation,

soldiers seized the little boy.

The Governor’s wife was claiming it back and had taken the case to law.

But to understand the trial that followed we must know more about the judge who decided the case. His
story takes us back to that same Easter Sunday when the barons rose against the Grand Duke. That night Azdak,

a drunken village scribe, gave shelter to a beggar whom he later recognized as the Grand Duke in person. Azdak
felt that his unwitting rescue of the rascally ruler was a crime, forced the village constable to arrest him and take
him to the city to be tried for it.
In the city, however, there was no judge left ; the soldiers, who were the only
power in the land, were so amused by Azdak’s jests that they made him the judge to replace the one whom the

people had just hanged.
was a lecherous man.

For two years Azdak sat in judgment over the people of Georgia.

He took bribes and

But he favoured the poor and downtrodden.

When Grusha and the Governor’s wife appeared before Azdak. however, he was about to be hanged.
Now that the Grand Duke was back in power, there was no place for him. The noose was already around him
neck when a messenger arrived from the Grand Duke himself, who had appointed the man who saved his life to be

judge over the city.

So Azdak heard the case.

Having listened to the pleas of the two women, he drew a circle of

chalk on the ground, put the child in the center, and told them to try and drag it out of the circle.

The Governor’s

wife pulled it towards her with violence. Grusha let it go. Azdak awarded the child to Grusha because her
gentleness showed that she loved it more. In the dancing and rejoicing that followed this judgment Azdak disappeared and was never heard of again.
The meaning of the story, the singer concludes, is that things should “ belong to those who are good for
them : the children to those who are motherly ...... and the valley to those who will irrigate it. and make it fruitful ”.
With its poetry, its use of narrators, its two-pronged construction, its stylized action——the negative, wicked
characters are masked. The Caucasian Chalk Circle is one ofBrecht’s greatest plays.
From : Martin Esslin. The Man and His Work, New Yark 1967.

