SYNOPSIS
Nalarishi, a disciple of Agastya Muni, was reaching the ﬁnal stages of his penance when Lord Indra,
sensing a danger to his throne, send his Apsaras to distract the mind of his supposed rival. One of them,
Kamkundala, after bewitching this Rishi, refuses to satisfy his desire on the plea that he was too ugly for her.

The enraged Rishi curses her that she should be born as a woman in the community of Ode on earth and be
married to an ugly man. Kamkundala counters this with her own curse that Nalarishi himself should be reborn
as an ugly Ode whom she would have to marry.

In due course, Kamkundala is born as Jasma, a daughter of an Ode named Dalo Dhand. Jasma’s stepmother Dali dominates him and ill-treates her. Nalarishi is reborn as an ugly crippled son of another ode couple,
Bhalo Bhand and his wife Bhali. This ugly body enshrines the creative soul of Nalarishi which attracts Jasma’s
sensitive mind and she marries him inspite of her father’s wishes to the contrary.

While Jasma is settling down with her husband Rupaji (Rudia in Gujerati), a court poet of the
king of Gujerat turns up at her village and carried the tale of her beauty to Patan, the capital of medieval Gujerat.
He adVises the king to start a popular project of building a tank and on this pretext calls Jasma to the capital,
together with the rest of her community who are earth-diggers and builders by profession.

Captivated by Jasma’s unusual beauty, the king insists on marrying her.
But Jasma prefers her own
husband’s capacity for honest and creative labour to all the royal pomp and glory that the king can offer. When,
calling him an idle parasite, she refuses his offer, the king orders a general massacre of the entire Ode community.
When, after killing Rupaji, the king tries to take the lonely widow to his palace, Jasma commits suicide, after
cursing him that he would be a victim of leprosy and his capital would be razed to the ground.

The king repents and an emissary of lndra‘s court, Laldev, :1 lord of colour, comes to earth to take Jasma

back to heaven.

When Jasma refuses to go alone, he brings all the dead Odes back to life, but Jasma prefers

affectionate earth to the dullness of impersonal heaven.

herself rejoins the song of her fellow workers.

She sends Laldev back with greetings for Lord Indra, and

