AN APPROACH TO “ OTHELLO ”

A summary of discussions held with the cast in the course of rehearsals.

In interpreting OTHELLO we are concerned not only with discovering a style that can effectively cornmunicate the meaning of the play, but with deﬁning an attitude of mind that Will reach beyond the rehearsal and
performance of a play into social behaviour.
This is an attitude that is questioning, that scrutinises social situations rather than emotional states ; an
attitude that is not obsessed with the psychology of individuals no matter how “great” or interesting, but rather
with the signiﬁcance of their effect on others. We think of them not as extraordinary individuals, a law unto
themselves, and preoccupied with the uniqueness of their individual emotions, but as beings living in a society to
which they are responsible, and to which they are accountable for their actions.

OTHELLO’S PASSION ८३३; RHETORI‘C
What we think and HOW we think affects our actions, and our actions affect those around us and
those around us are not to be regarded as insigniﬁcant and passive individuals caught in the maelstrom of our (in
this case. Othello’s) unique passion. There is nothing unique about. Othello’s profound love for Desdemona—-a
common prostitute such as Bianca loves with the same sincerity, intensity and blindness.
And so we do not allow the characters to sweep us off our feet with the force of their rhetoric.
them by the choices they make.

We judge

We stand apart and watch them do THIS, rather than the three other alternatives

left to them, and, unmoved by their rhetoric, we judge them by the decisions they take.
We are suspicious of the passions of such seemingly romantic characters as Othello.

interpretation we are not concerned exclusively with his feeling of betrayal and his deep jealousy.

Actually in our

Rather we are

interested in this phenomenon, namely that men with a strong propensity for evil (such as Iago) use the goodness

of human beings (such as Othello, Desdemona, Cassio et.) and turn that very goodness against themselves. These
“ goon ” human beings are destroyed by their own positive qualities, 226., their unquestioning trust, their faith,
their innocent blindness, their inability to see and comprehened a scale of values other than their own. To ﬁght
evil, one must recognise and comprehend evil, and expose it for what it is.
One cannot remain, as Othello,

Desdemona and Cassio remain, passive victims. Goodness tends to be passive, complacent, assuming that all is
and will continue to be well with the world, and that virtue is its own reward. Evil is ferociously active. It has
amazing energy, resourcefulness and imagination. All that Iago does is to set each character on the path of his
own self-destruction.

Such diabolic understanding and abuse of human nature is surely something that we have experienced on
huge scale in our own time : how Nazism turned a whole nation against its own

reason ; brain—washing of all

kinds—~the capacity to make people believe whatever you wish them to believe and to make them act according to
your designs, through insidious propaganda, or through the misuse of such mass media as the press, advertising,
radio, T. V.. films etc. All these are foreshadowed in the manner in which Iago deals with his victims.

