VENICE & CYPRUS:

REASON & lNSTlNCT

Only the first, comparatively brief act, is set in Venice. The remaining four acts are set in Cyprus. an
island surrounded by a tempestuous sea. hundreds of miles away from Venice. The Venice Shakespeare refers to
is the Venice of the late Renaissance, the most resplendent citystate of Europe, a strong commercial and maritime

power ; in its art, culture and civilisation the acme of what Europe had achieved.
achievement of the questing rational mind.

Venice is reason, that part of the

This world is the supreme

human personality

that distils ex—

perience and gives it rational form.

Cyprus on the other hand is a barrett primitive island, scorched by the sun and washed by the sea. It is
in Cyprus that the dark subconscious of most of the characters comes to the surface. Each of them reverts to instinct : Othello to savage impulses ; Cassio to debauchery ; [ago to his basic meanness. negativeness. In the
midst of this Desdemona is helpless-she has neither the experience. the wit nor the instinctive resourcefulness to
respond actively to such a situation. All her culture has not enabled her to cope with life ; the lirst impulsive step
she takes outside her sheltered home leads her directly to disaster.

In a sense. therefore, the play is also a terrible warning.

it says : all our so-called reason is merely super-

ficial on the surface.
At the slightest touch our dark, blind. unreasoning primitive instincts can be aroused. and
when they are we have no control over them : the communal situation in India, the situations which exploit regional
differences, the countless situations in Europe. America, in fact all over the world which appeal to the emotions and
the baser instinctsmdo they not point to this perennial danger?

As we see the play. these are the two basic ideas that emerge.

But these have to arise out of specitic

contexts and Situations. Only by deﬁning those situations with precision and accuracy through the performance
of the actors cart a clear meaning be communicated to the audience.

THE NEED FOR CLARITY OF IDEA
The audience will not understand what we mean unless we ourselves are clear as to what we wish to
commumcate.

We are not interested in arousing a vague, over-~all reaction in the audience.

We wish to make a

speciﬁc pomt—and that pomt Will be specnﬁc to the extent to which we are speciﬁc in each separate situation.
It is in this that the problem lies : how to prevent actors from playing mere emotions, from blurring or

obscuring the issues through lyricism or rhetoric or exhibitionism or a narcissistic approach, and instead communicating from sequence to sequence the lesson to be learnt, the point to be made. For example. in Othello‘s speech
to the Senate, we are amazed to discover a man living in a world of such fantasy and romantic dreams ; a man
whose extraordinary adventures. experiences and hair breadth escapes have not given hint art iota of selfknowledge.
We should not be moved by his rhetoric (in the midst of a midnight emergency session of the Senate ;) but appalled
by his self-delusion. And this is the man whom Venice has chosen to safeguard her colonies and her civilisation
against the supposedly unciVilised Turks !
We are concerned therefore with the countless ironies of the situation rather than stirred by an inordinate
romantic passwn.

