‘ HISTORICIZING ’ THE PLAY

The critically scrutinising attitude involves looking at the situation “historically”
in the term used by
Brecht. Speaking of the classics, particularly the plays of Shakespeare, Brecht says, “
What really matters is to play
these old works historically which means setting them in powerful contrast to our
own time.
“ For it is only against the background of our own time that a shape emerges as an old shape,
and without this background I doubt that they could have any shape at all”. In this sense a classic
does not mean work
that has a consistent meaning for all ages and all times, and provides matter which generation
after generation
accepts to be true and meaningful. The term “history ” used in the accepted sense of
that term applies to the
changing environment, not to man. It is assumed that man has always remained the same
and that his responses
have always been the usual, natural, eternal, inevitable, human responses. Thus the constantly
changing environment has had, it would appear, hardly any effect on what is regarded as the ess-ential “
man ” and therefore is
looked on as relatively unimportant. Marx on the other hand saw decisive social (historical)
changes in the
environment having an important effect on the relations between human beings. This view
of history and the
development of society cancels out the bourgeois attitude of emphasizing the timelessness of
its characters. This
theory of changing the world rests on the supposition that it is man who changes the world
and is capable of
changing it. Thus Fate or Destiny form no part of our view of looking at the world.
Thus in analysing the play, the correct approach would be to HISTORICIZE it. That is, to look
at the
play as a unique event, the characters as speciﬁc individuals who are caught up in a particular set of
given circumstances. What are these circumstances ? In OTHELIO it: is the end of the feudal system, the rise of the
bourgeoisie.
Brecht says regarding tragedy in Shakespeare: “Shakespeare takes a tragic view of the decline of feudalism.
All
his great characters are living in a new world and are smashed by it . . . Shakespeare found the decline
of the
great ruling classes complex, fascinating and important”.

Here we ﬁnd Othello caught up in and still clinging to his feudalistic notions of chivalry, love, patriotism—
a gracious dream world which he preferred to live and dream in rather than the historical new world which
Iago
represents. The following classic statement from the Manifesto of Marx and Engels is most revealing
in this
context : “The bourgeoisie, historically, has played a most revolutionary part. Wherever it has got
the upper
hand. it has put an end to all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations.

It has pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal

ties that bound man to his ‘natural superiors’, and has left next to nexus between man and marl than naked
selfinterest, than callous ‘cash payment ’. It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious
fervour, of chivalrous enthusiasm. of philistine sentimentalisrn in the icy water of egoistical calculations. It has resolved
personal

worth into exchange value. In one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, it has
substituted naked. shameless, direct brutal exploitation. It has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto
honoured
and looked upto with reverent awe. It has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and has reduced family
9

relations to money ‘ .

Thus the play takes place at a historically important point when society is undergoing a fundamental
change—the ruling classes are losing their grip and giving way to the bourgeois middle class. Shakespeare regards
their decline as tragic. These great heroic ﬁgures are too idealistic for the new harsh reality that surrounds them.
They have to die simply because they have no place in the new world coming into existence around them. Macbeth’s
belief in superstition and witchcraft, Lear’s patriarchal ideas, the blood feuds of the Capulets and Montagues
in
ROMEO AND JULIET are all feudalistic ideas which have to die.

