THE DIALECTICAL APPROACH

._
ट्वेंद्देहैंहँहँ'हैंहूँहँ"

Then comes the question of “ dialectics ”. Now that we can see the play objectivel
y we can observe the
contradictions in events and personalities, - the relativity of- actions. दु - One observes for
example certain self-indulgent,
bombastic and arrogant qualities in Othello which one draws attention to instead
of blurring
forward his lack of shrewdness, his blindness not as positive qualities, but as negative ones—as over. One brings
deﬁnite inexcusable
weaknesses on his part.
'
Approaching characters dialectically one sees them as human beings full of contradictions
reacting differently in different situations. One has to be careful with characters like Iago and, despite their
propensity for evil,
avoid painting them only black but try to discover valid motivations for their behaviour.
This is particularly
difficult in the case of Iago who does not reveal himself even to the audience and remains adamantly
uncontrite to
the end. His economic situation, he naturally fells, is not commensurate with his practical
skill and intellectual
superiority. His resentment against well-to-do fools like Roderigo and inexperienced flamboyant
playboys like
Cassio is therefore quite understandable. Inherited wealth, social prestige and inﬂuence in the higher
classes seem
to get the undeserving positions of authority, whereas perseverance, professional devotion and
inherent talent
which Iago has in considerable measure, lead only to frustration.
THE SETTING

The setting is

deliberately bare, shorn of any ornament, so that the situations are emphasised.

The audience should be made to concentrate on the issues involved.
An absolutely bare stage can represent any locale.

We started with

an

elaborate

stage

with many levels

and

ultimately

arrived

at

this simple

scenic

statement.

THE COSTU MI’S
On the whole the Costumes are basically simple acting costumes ; dark trousers and a dark vest. On
this, upper garments suggestive of the character are worn.
The actlng costume 18 used to emphasrse clarity of
outline, both in silhouette as well as In movement.

