M AX MU ELL E R B H AVA N
THE INDO— GERMAN CULTURAL CENTRE, HYDERABAD,
is one of the eight Indian branches of the Goethe-Institute, Munich, 21 non-political
and non-commercial association, which aims at promoting mutual understanding of dilTerent
cultures and civilizations, especially to encourage the exchange of intellectual and artistic
achievements between India and Germany. For this purpose, Max Mueller Bhavan sponsors
both Indian and German Cultural Programmes : Filmshows, Lectures and Discussions, Exhibitions, Theatre Performances, Concerts etc.

Members of Max Mueller Bhavan get free admission to all these functions.
fees: Rs. 25 double, Rs. 15 single, Rs. 7—50 for students yearly.

Membership
३

The Language Department of Max Mueller Bhavan offers morning and evening classes
in German, rapid and ordinary courses for beginners and advanced students. Specially trained
teachers are teaching German as it is spoken and written today in Germany with the latest
methods for language teaching.
Classes are held in Hyderabad in our own premises, at Milton Academy, Clock
Tower, Sarojini Devi Road, Secunderabad, at Bharat Heavy Electricals, Ramachandrapuram,

and at Andhra University, Waltair.
Classes are held in the mornings from 8——9 am. and evenings from 5—8-30 p.m.
Tuition fee for one semester (ﬁve month) is Rs. 54 which is payable in two instalments : .Rs. 36 at the time of admission and Rs. 18 three months thereafter. For the
G I Rapid Course tuition fee is Rs. 108 payable in two equal instalments.
New students have also to pay an admission fee of Rs. 17.
॰
Textbooks and glossaries for beginners are free. Books (textbooks, dictionaries etc.)
required for the higher classes are sold to our students with a reduction of 50% of the original
price.
Students who get 1st Class in the ﬁnal examination are exempted from paying fees
for the next semester. If their result 1s equally good in that semester, their freeship continues.
.
On passing the examination after each course, successful candidates Will be given
certiﬁcates by the Goethe-Institute, Munich.
Study-Groups are conducted. by one of our teachers for reading scientiﬁc and literary
texts and discussrons ; they can be JOlned by all students and ex-students having suﬁicient know-

ledge of German.

No fees Will be charged.
( Continued on third cover page )

