A Few Words From The Director..
Girgit (Chameleon) is a story penned by the famou
Russian playwright and short story writer Anton Pablovitc

Chekhov (1860—1904), and scripted in Hindi by evolving the \script from S.T.A. conducted in the Doon School during
Aug—Sept '94, is a simple tale of a dog which operates at two
levels. The other sub-plot which was infused into this script
has been taken from the contemporary Urdu dramatist Iqbal
Majid’s play, “Kuttey—the dog".
Girgit
is alive
and relevant today — it is one
of the most widely staged plays produced in Brechtiana
Pirendello style. “The play reflects as a metaphor for disapproval
of hypocrisy, insensitivity of our bureaucracy, through a dog
‘which nevertheless encompassed the whole of the “little man’s
psychology" in the appalling social and political contemporary
conditions, of the impudence and shrewdness of the political
elites
and
prevailing
power
system, the exploitation,
' victimization and submission of the weak.
In otherwise loose ends of the story, the dog who has
problem of hopelessness and had been built to end with a
whirnper, represent alienation or ennui, a sense” of dissatisfaction
and incompleteness with everything around ?
Girgit has been interpreted in many different ways—
‘Girgit' means a stage filled with ’sweet, soupy, frustrated
people; created by a man who wept for their fate.’ It is their
lack of hope, their tragic reading of life.
Girgit is a farce because the pe0ple are disordered
chorus who have lost their gods and invent themselves. They
are a collective farewell to the world gone by and that is what
moves us all. In all of Chekhov there is comedy in the pain
and pain in the comedy because tragedy comes so close to
farce in real life,

The free wheeling style of the production suited the young
cast and has brought about instantaneous and sparkling
performance from the cast.
The

rehearsals were

juxtaposed with the studendts' own

personality against the roles they are playing. 80 we had an
interesting three tier visualization of the actor acting as a
student, enacting yet another role.
M 0 H D . H A M M A D F A R O()0 U l

