FOREWORD
The second Ballet Festival organised by Delhi Administration ’s Sahitya Kala Parishad may perhaps be the most unique and exciting artistic
event to have taken place in the capital for the past several years. The 9 day festival will not only present some of the best choreographic works
of our leading choreographers, but it will also bring together some of the world ’s leading choreographers with their Indian counterparts. It will
be a unique experience where art lovers will have the opportunity of viewing a panorama of Indian choreography, which includes traditional,

modern, solo as well as group compositions. The Parishad expects that this festival will be welcomed by one and all.
Delhi being the capital of India, must receive the vibrant cultural trends from all the four corners of India and we must respond to these
cultural invigorating currents as a contribution towards making Delhi the cultural capital of India. With a view to projecting creativity amongst
Delhi choreographers, the Parishad had, last year, presented the 1 st Ballet Festival of Delhi based choreographers and troupes. This year’s
national level festival of ballets willfeature troupes and choreographers of both national and international repute.
0n the last day Dec. 3rd, short compositional pieces of Sahitya Kala Parishad Production, the German choreographer Deitmar Seyffart and the
renowned Kathak maestro Birjiu Maharaj will be presented.

Seminars and workshops on Indian and Western choreography are also being organised from No v. 30th to Dec. 2 Thiveni Chamber Thaltre which
will be attended by some leading choreographers and dancers of India. The subjects include: “The concept of choreography in Indian dance, its
background, history and how it is understood today ”; “The interaction between the Indian and Western choreography; ” “The recent developments in the Indian and Western choreography etc. The seminar timings are from 9.30 to I . 30 p. m. at Triveni Chamber Theatre. Amongst the
choreographers and dance critics of international repute who are invited to participate in the seminars are Deitmar Seff'art (GDR), Jo chen
Schmidt (FRG), Keith Bain (Australia), Ilona Neumann (Hungary), Patricia A ulestia De Alba (Mexico), Charles Reinhart (USA), Dominique
Dupuy (France) and Helmut Vogt.
Apart from the seminars of these celebrated choreographers, two of them will hold workshops for the benefit of Indian artistes and choreographers. They are Dietmar Seyffart & Keith Bain.
As always, the Parishad is much beholden to its Chairman, Shri Jag Parvesh Chandra, Chief Executive Councillor and Vice-Chairman, Shri Vijay
Kapoor, Chief Secretary, Delhi Administration and members of its Expert Committee for providing all support to this concept. And last but
not least, members of the Press, Kamani Hall and the audience for participation and cooperation.
The Parishad is thankful to all the participating teams & foreign guests.
Surendra Mathur
Secretary

