LI LANGIK A

BIRJU MAHARAJ

Sun. 3rd. Dec. ’89

Choreography & Music : BIRJU MAHARAJ
The theme of this choreographic composition

“riu Maharaj is a phenomenon. He has become
a legend in his own lifetime for his multif’acted

is the blissful muse (lila) of the gracefully

lgenius. Although widely known as a Kathak

moving limbs of a human body (angika). The

dancer of unparallel calibre, he is also a superb
singer and a powerful drummer-playing nearly
all types of percussion instruments with ease
and perfection. His dancing admirably blends

traditional Indian thinking regards dance as
visual music or visual poetry. Viewing from
this perspective the dance composition aims at
suggesting that not only the entire body of a
dancer but its different limbs, such as, legs,
hands, torso, and face, independently also can
write poetry in space often drawing inspiration

from nature. The evocative quality of this
angik-kavita, i.e., physical poetry, can be
enhanced through various permutations and
combinations. The musicality of the moving
limbs can also be fascinatingly expressive and
communicative. The moving limbs of a dancer’s
body are indeed various eXperiences and
feelings expressed in a three-dimensional
language. The integrated poetic statements of
moving bodies, as presented in this group
number, if at one time is lyrical and alliterative,
at another time, eloquent and metaphorical;
always creating dynamic images in the danced
dimension. In short, the dance composition

is a celebration of the human body.

the best of the three greats, viz.‘, Achhan
Maharaj, his father whose incredible sense of

rhythm and elegance of dance movements
have become legends; Shambhu Maharaj,
his uncle, who used to take expressional
dancing to heights far beyond that of any
verbal poetry; and Lachhu Maharaj, his elder

uncle, whose dance movements had a syllphlike
lyrical grace.

Birju Maharaj has perfOrmed widely all over the
country and in almost all parts of the world.

His genius has been rightly recognized through
the various prestigious awards he has received
namely,

Padma Vibhushan,

Andhra Ratna,

Kalidas Samrnan, Nritya Choodamani, Soviet
Land Nehru Award, Akademy Award &
Doctorate Degree from two Universities.

