inevitably draws him in. Bagharu is negation personified. And this
‘negative essence’ ceaselessly intervenes, interrupts steady flows, and
makes messy all a-priori designs. The society and the state keep him
outside of history and for the same reason he remains irrepressible, he
‘re—turns’ again and again to point towards the unrealized potentials of
history, towards open-ends....
Director’s Note
It is a difficult task to make a
play out of a novel. Especially if
the novel in question happens to
be Teesta Paarer Brittanto - one
that adds a fresh chapter to the
very history of the genre, creates
a new paradigm of narration. I
have had to wage many battles
with myself in trying to present
that milieu, that tremendous
turmoil in a community’s life,
.
the uncertain currents of Teesta in the vocabulary of the stage.
In the course of our labours, all of us were touched by the realisation
that the theatrical methods that we have been using all these years would
not work for this particular production. It demanded different
conceptualisation, physicality and language.
It would be presumptuous for me to say anything about Mr. Debesh
Roy, yet I must acknowledge that without his experience and his advice,
there would have been glaring omissions in this production.
Suman Mukhopadhyay

Suman Mukhopadhyay (born on 20th November 1966) got his training in
theatre in a short span of time. He has written, translated, acted and
directed many plays at home and abroad such as Teesta Paarer Brittanto,
Coriolanus, Marich, Sanbad, Jagannath, Maa, Jaisa Ka Taisa, Measures
Taken, Natir Katha etc. He is also a part time lecturer of Mass
Communication and Television Production in Ravindra Bharti University,
Kolkata. Apart from Best Production for the play ‘Gantabya’ at home, he
has to his credit Fellowships from Asian Cultural Council, Trinity College,
U.S.A.. He was also a Cultural Delegate of United States Information
Agency, New York, U.S.A.
Cast
Bagharu
Suhas/Commandant
MLA/Government Lawyer
Gayanath

:
:
:
:

Sankar Debnath
Supriyo Dutta
Mihir Banerjee
Gautam Mrida

