Trade Fair Authority of India
Presents

TAN श्या KA GANA(Hindi play)
Written by Rajesh Joshi and
Bansi Kaul. Dir: Bansi Kaul
with Rang Vidushak, Ujjain
on 7~8th March, 1987
at Manzar Theatre

at 6.3OPM

._X__,
n 5१म्९टिद्री1८८टे०
Tankara is an unusual abode.
as ill omen and laughter madness.

Here smiling is considered

The old and the young people of Tankara gather in a maidan
to receive their king.
It is customary for the people of
Tankara to 00mmunicate with their king through ’Abhinay’ ०
(expressive gestures and movements)
the kingdom.

, १

and give him all the news of

A vidhushak named Karingaram arrives with his wife and son.

He smiles at the gathering and the peOple of Tankara are
frightened.Karingaram is astonished to learn that smiling is
considered on ill omen in Tankara.

In Tankara Karingaram meets a jester who has roamed around
the universe.
This jester tells Karingaram all about the strange
town, its customers and peOple.
. Karingaram conveys to the kings emissary and the people of
Tankara through Abhinay, the story of his banishment from earth.
His artistry impresses his audience who are so enchanted with his
exprtise that they confer on him the title of 'Jan Vithshak'.
The young people of Tankara become his disciples.
There is no monetary exchange in Tankara. ’Things are
purchased or acquired by receiving physical punishment, beaten and
injured in the market, an unhappy Karingaram suddenly discovers
the reason why the people of Tankara have lost their laughter and
happiness.
Some time later the king of Tankara appoints
Karingaram ’Vidhushak’ of his kingdom. The king wishes to arrange
for the inauguration of his white palace and puts Karingaram in
charge of managements.
The white palace is made of rice and SUgar
both of which are basic necessities.
Karingaram realises that the
public is being deprived of essential commodities and plans to
expose the king.
He suggests that before the inauguration, the
palace must be thoroughly washed and cleared of all impurities.
The poopkpf Tankara wash and clean the palagke, and the

palace begins to dissolve.
For the first time the people of
Tankara get the sweet taste of suger. And with this return a
smile to their face.
But with laughter also returns their
capacity to feel pain and sorrow.
The king immediately punishes Karingaram and his son from
the kingdom.
. ..conixi..

