According to the practice ot a Sankritana ’Sabha Rachna'
is performed first. On the soUth western side of the Mandali

the Subhapati must take his seat. According to differences
in age the audience will occupy seats on the South, East
and North and women folk would have their seats on the

Western side of the Mandali. The front portion of the temple
should be kept unoccumed. The Natas will make' a round in
the Rangasthal, the western portion of which be left open.
And this is known as the door of Mandali. On the Northen
side of this door the leading drummer the ’Dohar’ that is the
partner of main singer and other Natas will stand succesively, behind the second drummer Will stand the Khonbangba, that is the rnaln helper and other Natas. In front
of Khonbangba and in the middle of the Rangas there will
stand the lead singer. As for the costume and other bodily

decorations of the singer, he will have Dwadashattilak, put
on a Tulsi Mala, sacred threat; the front portion of the
Dhoti will be tuck at the back, a turban will be worn and a
Chaddar will be wraped round the waist. If these details are
not fulfilled a Nata cannot join Nata Sankritana. In the center
of Rangasthal fruits, betelnut, incence and light will be
offered for Mandali Puja. Nearby a piece of white cloth will

be placed on a broad and clean banana leave for offering
Puja to Shri Krishna Chaityana, Shri Nityainanda, \Shri
Avdeitya, Shri Godhador and Shri Shri Basa. The singer will
be presented with garland and new cloths. Nirajan will be
offered to the deity of the Mandali, flowers, chandan, incence
will be distributed to the Natas to sanctify their bodies. They
will then bow down touching the ground with five parts of
the body (panchanga) which will be followed by Jayadhwani of the Sabhapati to mark beginning of the Sankritana.
At first Pung, Kartal and blowing of Counchshell will
jointly set the beginning of the Sankritana and this is known
as the beginning of Raga of Pung. After which a Raga or
a Ragini of Sangeet Shastra or Raga as directed by the
season or the hour will be selected and according to a set

tune it will be sung as ta, ri, ta. This raga is devided into

