NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

The National School of Drama, one of the foremost theatre

training institutions in the world and the only one of its kind in
India, was set up in 1959. Over the years the School has
made advances on various fronts including a rapid expansion
of its activities in all parts of the country. It has produced a
galaxy of talented actors, directors, script-writers, designers,
technicians and educationists who work in theatre, films and
television and have been recipients of several awards at the
national and international
level.
The training in the School is based on a thorough,
comprehensive, carefully-planned syllabus, which covers
every aspect of theatre, in which theory is related to practice
and in which all work is ultimately put to test before a wide
public audience. The syllabus takes into account the methods
of great theatre personalities who have shaped
contemporary theatre in all its forms. The systematic study
and practical performing experience of Sanskrit drama,
modern Indian drama, traditional Indian theatre forms, Asian
drama and Western drama give the students a solid
grounding and wide perspective in the art of theatre.
The School has a Repertory Company and Theatre-in;
Education Company in Delhi and a Regional Resource
Centre at Bangalore. NSD'5 Extension Programme seeks to
extend and diffuse its activities in all regions of the country. A
programme for research, documentation and publication is a
recent addition to strengthen the academic activities of the
School. The School's publications include anthologies of
plays in different Indian languages translated into English,

reference works and theatre studies in Hindi and two regular
periodicals, viz. Rang Prasang in Hindi, and Theatre India in
English.

The Concept of Traditional Theatre Workshops in the
Regional Areas
By the 1970s the national consensus upon which institutions
such as the NSD had functioned since the 19603 was
beginning to break-down. Forms of regional assertion had
begun to interrogate the Nehruvian model of the centralized
institution. B.V. Karanth, who became Director of NSD in
1977, responded to these articulations by attempting to forge
a representative “contemporary idiom” which drew upon
indigenous performance practices.
Karanth, in a reversal of the then existing system of the threeyear diploma course with specializations, set up an
“integrated” syllabus that reflected his belief that the theatre
was primarily a collective activity with no stringent division of
responsibilities. As he put it “. . .there has to be a solid practical
training, which determines the voice, the body and the
sensibility of the training as its nucleus. Covered alongside
are all connected areas of work major and minOr such as
stagecraft, stage technique, lighting, direction, even Script—
writing. ” Such an approach led to the shifting of the school'3
pedagogic emphasis from an academic engagement to
hands-on learning in the process of production. This was a
process-o—riented, artisanal approach where one learned
through participation.
There was also a substantial shift in terms of the aesthetic
content transmitted. Karanth‘s own training was manifest in

his perception of dance and music as central to an Indian
performance vocabulary. Emphasis was placed on training 111 ‘ ‘
voice, sound and music; and various traditional forms that
were based on body movements were also incorporated~
Also, gurus of the traditional forms were regularly invited 10३३
work with students.
The present form of the 45 days workshop in a particula

traditional form for the students of the school'Is the extensiorI ‘
of the above approach.
३

