About

Tamasha

TamaSha, asहै१शि०न्"०ता,standsi

entertainment package,
people of Maharashtra. Its anteceder
back to the practices of 'khadigamn‘ . .
caste Mangs and Mahars. it has also drawn 110111 8 ३' दृ
folk and populartraditions likejagran-601161161, thep
of lok shahirs, Dashavatara, the gavalana of’
३३

saint poets and other elements of the Bhakti _
metrical forms of lavan i geet, dance छोसाकीसा३१९पी(रे

and has even borrowed stage techniques
theatre, and more recently has been influenced

Tamasha concretized as a distinct form only a'
Peshwas, particularly in the court of BaIIrao» - course of its history,- it has also
served 68 ca"
entertainmentforsoldiers. ArOund the (9408, 11116छ6टू
mainstream folk form, getting organized almost along
lines of an industry. Some of the pioneering nar

associated with this form ।पजिधिप्र१।भीकी1सा ३ '

‘

Honaji Bala, Saganbhau, Patthe Bapurao, B
Mang Narayangaonkar, etc.
‘

While the style of Tamasha Varies from region है

टू

Maharashtra, by and large a Tamasha perfor
comprises of two broad sections- the Poorvaranga and the
Vag natya. AsIn many other traditional theatre forms, the
performance'Is announced by the percussion beats of the
dholakiwala and halgiwala (who plays a daph-11५6८क्या
instrument). The percussionists are then followed by the
other instrumentalists, the tuntunewala (playing something
like the ektara) and the manjirawala (who plays the
cymbals). The Poorvarang proper begins with the Gan
an invocation to Ganesha, sung by all the male membe
the Tamasha troupe.

ThisIs followed by the Gavalan, a boisterous spin--off on the Krisnalila where two villagers take on the role of Krisna and hisacc
Pendia, and they stop the gavalans (gopis or rnilkmaids) on the way to the market. This segment, in which the gavalans8
protection of rnausi (the character of a senior aunt, played by a male actor who retains his masculine appearance but dons a sugge,
upparna), is filled with wit, innuendos, teasing and farcical elements, as well as dance. in earlier T,amashas this segment was1611 ”
by the J hagada or Kalgi tura, a sawal-jawab type of lavaniIn which the subject matter was mythological, philosophic or tlIeocrati

