I
harangue and strike a deal with the owner of a Tamasha phad to
perform for their village. This also provides another excuse to
introduce a lavani as the villagers demand a sample of the
performers' fare before settling with the owner. In some cases, the
Rangbaaji is proceeded by the Batawani which ingeniously
serves to entertain the audience while the actors change into their
costumes for the Vag natya. The Batawani is a comic interlude
somewhat along the lines of stand-up comedy, in which the
Sardar (Shahir) and the Songadya (comparable to the vidushak
or jester) vie with each other in telling exaggerated and bombastic
tales in a point—and-counterpoint fashion. After this begins the
Vag natya, which is the play proper. Its theme may be drawn from
mythology, legend, history, or may be based on social issues, etc.
As with the Poorvarang, the Vag natya too gives more importance
to witty dialogues than to dramatic action, and there is little by way
of blocking or scene construction. Characters tend to be stock
figures, and dialogues are more often than not improvised, so
actors have plenty of opportunity to play the situations and display
their h istrionic skills without the necessity of characterization. Like
the various sections of the Poorvarang, the Vag natya too is
infused with lavani songs and dances. The Tamasha performance

mobile theatre which to rs

er ht regions of Ma

3३३ " ” Ig

the Tamasha season which conventionally begins on Dussehra (in
October) and lasts till May. This is Tamasha done on a grand scale
for ticketed audiences that typically run into several thousands.
Today it is estimated that there are only around 16 big, permanent
Tamasha phads (troupes) left who are able to tour and perform for
this entire season of around 210 days. These include names like
Tukararn Khedkar, Kantabai Satarkar, Vitthabai Narayangaonkar,
Datta Mahadik, Chandrakant Dhavalpurikar, Kalu Balu, etc. Then

there are 20-25 smaller temporary phads who perform on supari
(invitation) at village jatras between February and May. Then there
are even smaller groups of village artists who occasionally band
together to perform in what is known as Jhadakhalcha Tamasha
(literally, 'Tamasha below the trees') for nominal amounts and with
minimal paraphernalia. Statistically, although the figures indicate a
decline in the form with several registered groups closing down
every season, yet it is also true that the younger generation is still
attracted to the form and are struggling to keep it alive, finding new
ways of making it relevant for audiences today.

ABOUT THE VAG NATYA “ SA I YYA N _BHA YE
KO TWAL ”

concludes with the Bhairavi based on raaga Bhairavi, normally

invoking the saint-poets of the Warkari Sampradaay, and the In a kingdom headed by an ignorant and apathetic king wholturns a
blind eye to the affairs of his state, corruption rules the day. When
whole show ends in a spirit of bhakti.
the
Kotwal dies the Pradhan fills the vacant seat with his own
From village spaces to the Peshwai courts, from army barrack
lines to the proscenium stages of Murnbai and Pune, from gigantic brother-in-law, overlooking the Hawaldar who was in line for the
post. This prompts the Hawaldar to resort to guile to win the seat
tents set up in the defecating grounds outside villages to the
that was rightfully his due. The realization of his plan - undertaken
popular Marathi films of the 49502 and 603, Tamasha has had its
with a little bit of help from his sweetheart the dancer-singer
heyday. For a number of reasons, however, it has fallen into
Mainavati, and the Sepoy- gives rises not only to hilarious
decline - whether due to the somewhat boisterous, earthy and
situations,
but also exposes the corruptIon In the system
.
sometimes scatological sense of humour which has led to
The original Marathi production, titled V'ccha Majhl Pun Karawas
charges of vulgarity being leveled against it, or the seductive
nature of its lavanis, or the social stigrnas attached to its artists initially conceived as a politicalsatire to raise a voiceagainstthe
abuse of power by the post-Independencegovemment The play.
who even today come predominantly from the lower sections of

however, still resonates with the audiences oftoday who 31.1६ ३
society, or simply due to the unsustainable economics of the form
and the lack offunding, or other reasons.

similarrnisgovernance.

_ .

.

