Director's Note
According to Bharata, theatre enacts the happenings of all the three worlds. This epic quality of

spectial width pervading all the three worlds, with all their levels and dimensions is built into the
imagination that shaped Shakunta lam . । have tried to translate this view of spatial expansiveness into
theatre by making stage imagery move out of the proscenium frame. It extends itself behind the
screen and into what happens outside wings.
The imagery in Shakuntalarn is never still . It is kinetic par excellence, flowing slow like a great river
through space-time. My main quest in this production was to capture this flow. । have done this,
among other things, through elaborately stylized entries and exits and through backdrops that
move freely around the stage with leisurely abandon.

Critics have compared Kalidasa's play with its source in the Mahabharata and praised the way the
poet has elevated the hero from the level of a phallocentric boor to that of a noble character by

introducing Durvasa‘s curse. । don't agree. There are evidences in the play to show that there were
cases of Dushyanta's indifference to women of his love. He does not kill his quarry—whether deer or
woman— in the play. He doesn't spare them either. He loves rnrigayavihara hunting for fun. The sight
of his son sporting with a lion—cub it is that arouses his interest in the boy. I have tried to underline in
my production the recurrence of images and associations of the hunt as rut.

This is how । see the hero. The king is humanized to the point of becoming a child while in the
forest, but becomes the forgetful and self—indulgent king once back in the city. Still, there is
something essentially human about him, which is what makes him seek Shakuntala again.
The play text juxtaposes a series of contrasts: nature vs. culture, country vs. city, man vs. woman.

\X/hile keeping all of them in mind, । have placed special accent on patterns of man—woman
relationship in Indian context. The happy reconciliation at the end is only a formal necessity for the
sad tale of innocent love betrayed, which is the play's subtext. So I have put in two endings: the
heroine rejecting the husband's ring on the one hand and the wife accepting her man with the son,
on the other.

