Light Designer
Avtar Sahni graduated from NSD in T 984 with specialization in Direction. NSD granted him a
fellowship to work on the “Interaction between traditional performing arts and Modern Theatre"
under the guidance of Shri Ratan Thiyarn. He has directed about 30 plays including Malbe Ka Malik,
Hayvadan, Archangels dong't play Pinballs, Holi, Romeo and Jeannette, Uljhan and Nagin Tere
Vansh Bade, Thieve's Carnival Mandragola, Asni etc.

He has conducted theatre workshops at Ambala, Ranchi, Banaras, Bhagalpur and Delhi. Avtar Sahni
has also conducted workshops with children has also conducted workshops with children
conducted by NSD and Sahitya Kala Parishad, New Delhi.
Avtar Sahni participated in the Festival of India in USSR and lnternational Theatre Festival in
Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Dublin, Mexico, Cuba, France and London with Chorus Repertory Theatre,
lrnphal.
Uljha, a play directed by him for the Sangeet Natak Akademi's scheme of “Akademi's scheme of
‘Assistance to young theatre worker " in T 991 participated in the NSD'S first National Theatre Festival
in l 999 also. He has also directed the play Nagin Tera Vansh Bade for SKP Repertory Company,
New Delhi and Archangils don‘t Play Pinball and Mandragola for SRC Repertory Company, New
Delhi.
Design at light for Blood Brothers, Suno re Kissa directed by Barry John, Anamdas Ka Potha directed
by Robin Das, for NSD Repertory Company, Shila Sringar; Three Sisters directed by Robin Das (NSD
students productions), Bagro Basant Hai directed by Rob Clare (NSD students productions),
Janmajay Ka Nagyagya directed by Robin Das (Bhopal Rangrnandal) Chakravyuh and Nine hills one
Valley directed by Ratan Thiyarn (Chorus lmphal) Bidesi, Amrapali, Neelkanth Nirala directed by
Sanjay Upadhyay (Nirman Patna) Mangosil directed by Sanjay Upadhyay for NSD Repertory
Com pa ny.
Tirich directed by Prasanna.

He has also designed lights for "Days of Delhi in Moscow” organized by Govt. of Delhi in Moscow
in l 999 and 9006.
He has also acted in films: “Dil Se" Directed by Mani Ratnarn, "Omkara” and “The Blue Umbrella"
directed by Visha l Bhardwaj, “Choo Loongi Asman” directed by Virendra Saini, “Sarfarosh directed
by John Mathew.
He has directed tele-serials “lNTKAAM” and “PAPORl” for Doordarshan.

