2

MANIPURI THEATRE

SCRIPT
The script in Asian drama ignoring
a formal structural unity and a singleplane movement adopts a ﬂexible
structure with thematic diversity and
multi—plane movement of drama. Progression of the plot is concentric and
not vertical as in Western drama.
The classical as well as the folk drama
of India, as of many Asian coun—
tries, is both segmented into small
parts and also eminently organic. In
Indian classical theatre each act can be

performed separately. Many folk plays
are performed as serials, and Rama and

Krishna cycle plays are divided into

appeal. The use of prologue and
epilogue in many Asian plays further
contributes to the character of total
theatre.

MUSIC A N D DAN CE
Most of the Asian plays of different
types and variety are operatic in
character, and with highly stylised
mime and gestures the style of acting
is choreographic. Music is the very
dynamics of the Asian theatre and it
determines the pace, the rhythm and
the movement of the drama. Music
in Asian theatre has developed such
a theatrical character that it has
acquired its“ own independent entity
though it borrows its elements and
features from multiple sources. It
grows from Within the drama and is
functional and organic. Dance with
imetic movements, effective poses
and _ codiﬁed gestures builds up a
spectacle of great pictorial charm.
Many plays, such as the Kabuki of
Japan or the Ras Leela of India.
utilise climactic poses for the formation of dramatic tableaux and the
play seems to move from one tableaux
to another.
Both music and dance serve mul-

several Drama-Days. Freedom from
the laws of dramatic unities helps in
enlarging the thematic range of drama
and makes possible the multiplicity
and simultaneity of action.
There is alternation of dramatic
and narrative material and of prose
and verse dialogues.
There is a
juxtaposition of realistic scenes and
' scenes of fantasy. Themes with deep
religious associations have sharp secular overtones.
The processes of
elaboration and diversion affording
opportunities for improvisation further enlarge the scope of drama
and help in the evocation of 1111- or tiple dramatic functions. Th
e music
the realization of aesthetic pleasure. specially the drum music,
which is
The intermingling of the serious and very dominant, helps in acc
entuating
the comical episodes and characters the actor’s gestures and
movements,
in drama gives a sense of contrast heightens the mood and
the tempo
and new dimension to the dramatic of the play. Music a
ccompanies actor’s

