ASIAN CONCEPT or TOTAL THEATRE

singing and controls the timing and
pace of his movements, provides atmospheric background to the action of
the drama and enriches and deepens
the mood of the situation. Orchestral
pieces are used for the entries and
exits of the characters in the classical

Sanskrit drama and also in the Chinese
opera. Such pieces are also thrown in
between the actor’s song to give him
scope to enrich his gestures by an elaborate interpretation of the text.
Dance is also used in a very conventional manner and in some of the
highly stylized plays, such as Yaksha—
gan of India and Kabuki of Japan,
each actor enters with codiﬁed dancelike movements.

STAGE CONVENTIONS
All Asian drama is a drama of

conventions and of stylisation. These
conventions have evolved out of the
special character of the drama, certain
basic dramatic concepts and the peculiar circumstances of presentation
of plays. Because of the emphasis on

poetic

and imaginative elements,

Asian drama has discarded scenic
aids. This has given scope for the
pantomimic creation of scenes by the
actor developing a highly codiﬁed
gesture vocabulary.
There are elaborate and interesting conventions
pertaining to the entries and exits of

the characters, delivery of dialogue

3

and relationship between the actors
and audience.
Highly elaborate and conventional
make-up in Asian theatre is also determined by a variety of conventions;
Masks or mask-like make-up is used
to standardise or neutralise the
human face for enlarging the scope of
the mimetic expression. Character’s
faces are painted in different colours
which symbolise human nature in a
variety of plays, such as in Chinese
opera, in Japanese Kabuki and in
Indian Kathakali.
The conventions for the treatment
of time and place in Asian drama are
very basic.
Time and place are
treated through multiple conventions
and a metaphysical approach to them
as all Asian drama is deeply grounded
in religious and philosophical thought.
Time and place are not treated in
terms of realistic presentation as in

Western theatre.
Scenes and act
divisions in Western drama denote
shifts in time and in place, but act
divisions in Sanskrit drama, as well as
the divisions of dramatic action into
several stages in many folk plays,
merely suggest a shift in subject
matter or mood.

CONVENTIONS O F SPEECH
In all Asian drama, whether it is

Kabuki and Noh of Japan, the Chinese
opera or the cycle Leela plays of

