INDIAN CLASSICAL CONCEPT OF TOTAL TH
EATRE

on the background of the indigenous
production-technique. All these, instead of merely pleasing or striking
the eye or making things too ready,
made for the onlooker or necessitating him to look into a handout of a
summary or programme book, called
forth his attention and imagination
and cultured his mind and attuned
it to the play in an effective manner.
This avoidance of the Sets thus affected directly, as already pointed out,
the technique of writing the text of
the play ; as in a Radio play, which
is heard, everything including the
the actor coming on or his situation
had to be orally indicated in advance
.and thus do we get the lyrical des—
criptions of Nature and the surround—
ings and of the poses and postures of
the characters themselves as observed

by other characters On the scene on
whom they have repurcussions of dramatic Value.
As spoken by one character, these passages of the text
affect him and through him the audience which sees and hears him is
affected.

7

part of the face was precise and stylised and not casual. When a verse
or part of speech was thus rendered in
gesture, the actor-artist interpreated
it, bringing out its implications and
complimentary ideas, augmenting and
enriching it by his imaginative improvision.
The acting was thus a commentary and the actor as well as the
spectator were participating in a
highly concentrated art which called

forth the upmost attention and absorption on both sides.
Together
with the song and music of instru—
ments on which the movement of the
actor was set, this kind af enactment
made the ancient Indian drama really
an art of dance-drama.
The style of presentation and production described above was called
Natya-dharmi which meant the convene-

tions and the idealistic and symbolic
technique adopted.
The ancient Indian total stage
conception was thus a total conception ~
in respect of the essential and intrinsic
and purely artistic aspects of the play
and not in reSpect of the other extra-

A further reﬁnement in the presentation is that, instead of mere
realistic action, which follows automatically as the concomittant of
speech, close gesticulation or miming
of each word, of the verse or the

prose,

was adopted.

neous elements. For example. we may
take the question of lighting which
has assumed such a large place in mo—
dern production that playwright and
actor are nobody before a stage-engineer

and lightexpert. If it is mid day, for

The pose of ' instance, the text contained
words
hand or movement of some limb or
and the actor represented the whole

