Fundamental Problems In Total Theatre

By E. ALKAZI
By

Total

Theatre, I assume,

is

meant that type of theatrical presentation in which, apart from the script,
the other elements

such as music,

dance and spectacle form signiﬁcant
and essential parts of an integrated
whole,
This deﬁnition seems to apply to
a great deal of the most primitive as
well as the most sophisticated forms
of theatre—that is, to theatre that is

largely ritual, magic and celebration,
and theatre which is a profound investigation into the meaning and
purpose of human existence.
By itl very nature and function
the theatre aspires to “totality” : it
attempts to affect the spectator on
many levels of consciousness, through
a multiplicity of means.
An increasing awareness of the
mainsprings of theatre, an ever-extending study of the theatrical forms of

Where no such faith or myth exists, a
social philosophy may take its place.
Brecht denied the theatre its “magic”,
its ability to hypnotise and move the
spectator, but he used all the resources of the magical and ritualistic
theatre for his didactic purpose.

When we speak of Total Theatre,
we need to consider not only the
multiple means of communication, but
the multiple levels of conciousness at.
which theatre makes its impact upon
its audience.

The stimulation we receive from a.
dramatic performance is conditioned
by our concepts, our temperaments
and personalities. Through these the
emotional experience is evoked.
But in addition we need. to react

to the formal qualities of the production which provide the aesthetic
experience.

When the fusion of the emotional
with the restrictions imposed by and aesthetic provide insights or illu—
realism, has urged the theatre worker . mines the profounder issues of life and
to extend the bounds of the existing the mysteries of human existence, the
theatrical forms in the western tradi- reaction is in the nature of a spiritual
experience.
tion.
Where Total Theatre exists almost
Our experience of such plays as
as a natural phenomenon, We ﬁnd Gedipus Rex, Shakuntala, Lear, Macbeth,
the existence either of a common Phaedra or Ghosts and such plays is
living faith or a common myth. diﬁerent in kind (not only in degree)
varied

cultures, and

dissatisfaction

