12

MANIPURI‘ THEATRE

to discuss the characteristics of the

expand the individual self through

ideal spectator of the dance and drama
much as they do those of the ideal
artiste—dancer, dramatist, musician,
poet or painter. Bharata, laying down

the artistic experience to a larger»
Universal self. The artistic experience
and the artistic expression were thus

the requisite qualiﬁcations of the
spectator of drama thus envisions :

no longer of the individual, but of the
race or even more-the universal self.
the immortal-in Man.

“He who attains gladness on
seeing a person glad or sorrow on
seeing him sorry, who feels miserable

Since the artistic experience was
accepted by both the creator and the ,
Spectator as an instrument vital for

on seeing him miserable, is considered

the expansion of the invidual and
since this experience was again accep-

ﬁt to be a spectator in a drama ”
Made nearly two thousand years ted as a discipline of the highe
st order,
ago, this statement is even pertinent both creator and spectator
made a
today for correct understanding, special effort to achieve a
state of
appreciation and appraisal of the harmony and bliss thr
ough I the expeIndian arts, especially dance and rience. The dancer, th
e actor, had
music which have enjoyed a remark- the creative in
tuition, and the spectaable continuity of tradition.
tor, the training and cultivation to
Indian artistic expression was the achieve th
is state of harmony. The
direct result of a mode of living language
that evolved was one of
which was at once self-conscious and sy
mbols validated by tradition and \
highly cultivated. Life was regarded
conviction. Training of the spectator
as a continued opportunity for the
was an essential pre—requisite for any

expansion and cultivation of feelings
and emotions, through which ‘release’
ane1 ‘salvation’ could be attained and
provided one willed it ‘here and now’.
Thus the arts were the most important instruments for the cultivation

of feelings. The culture of emotions
assumed a signiﬁcant place very early
in the history of Indian modes
of
living. It is important to bear
this
constantly in mind, for the highest
attainments of Indian art were
the
outcome of this desire of the artist
to

communication which would be valid

and meaningful.
The term used for the spectator.
Sahridaya or the rasjka, sums up all
the underlying assumptions of such a
vision. Dorma ntstates of consciousness
exist in the spectator, which once he
sees them manifested through the
medium of the art, the identical states

of being are evoked and awakened
within him. The spectator is one of
attuned heart and similar disposition

who can experience the mood, the

