MANIPUBI THEATRE

14
\

dance upon unchanging musical and
literary compositions constitutes the
cardinal principle of the classical
Indian dance. The spectator thus is
sharing with the artist on the stage
the unfolding of a known literary
theme, variations on a familiar sculptural stance and known musical piece.
If the spectator is unaware of this
background, he is left on the fringes
of aesthetic enjoyment as perhaps the
modern spectator of the Indian dance
is.

But,

raslka to be present to day है? I‘he traditional language in the other Indian
arts, literature, sculpture and paint.

ing has broken down.
A new language of communication has evolved or

is in the process of evolving itself.
In theatre also in the sphere of the

spoken ‘word, the traditional channel
of communication has broken down.

It exists in music and it exists in
dance. Is it not easier to’ forget the
traditional language and seek a, new
language ?

The problem before us then is :
does the modern spectator share this
.artistic tradition which dance as a
vital form of Indian theatre presents
on the contemporary stage ? So long
as art was conﬁned to the creators
and the cultivated. the creator was
constantly stimulated and inspired
by the cultivated and initiated rasika
of attuned disposition and was a constant challenge to be met. With the
throwing open of artistic performances to large heterogenous audiences,
this totality of communication in
dance is no longer easy, if even possible. The dancer cannot but be affec-

The effort to reach out to the spectator is mostly only the dancer’s and
not the audience’s because the audience cannot respond to the dancer’s
language.

why is it necessary for a.

But, is it so easy to for-

get the traditional language, a language which has been chiselled through
usage for nearly 2000 years and a
language which is the heritage of
not only this country but a great part
of Asia, especially South-East Asia ?
In the context of a discussion on the
total theatre, thissaspect of initiation
into the tradition by the modern
spectator and initiation into the tradition by the artiste of the modern
theatre is not only relevant but an
extremely important question to be
asked. The totality of the tradition
can certainly not be recreated because
it has broken. Further the audience
like the artist has two burdens to
bear—the burden of the Western
tradition which it carries and some-

times successfully and the burden
and the grateful debt of their ancestor
which is exempliﬁed in the traditions

