16

3443313??? स्ममृहैंस्सासै

the vast Mangoloid people Who contributed not the least to the making
of the Indian mipd.‘1‘his much113 the
area of agreement: Indian culture1s a
composite one in the making of which
Aryan element contributes an unf
believably small3 “fragment.
It:Is in the context of thisinade-

quate understandlng of Aryan culture
that I am'not yet in a position to give
a deﬁnite opinion about Manipuri cul-

Manipuri puranas known popularly
as ‘Euyas? recorded 1n the Man1pur1
script is noW only in the process ०1"
being studled apd evaluated—a task

which has only begun, even though
serious efforts have been made1n this
direction. So any opinion about the
origin of Manipuri culture is bound

9'9, be earmIs this Manipur that Manipur of’
the Mahabharata ? This is a question

which confronts any sCholar taking
any interest in this group of people

ture. By Mampurr culture I mean
the culture of the Valley people,
T
h
e son of a Manipuri princess Chiknown popularly as Meiteis Who have
t
r
a
n
g
ada defeated the great Arjuna,
now joined the malnstream of indian
a
c
cording to the Mahabharata. Poet
life. Whatever may have been the
origin of this composite group (if Tagore took just a fancy to the story
people consisting originally of seven and wrote his1mm ortal dance-dramaclaps or salais, it has been increasingly Chitrangada. But certain Bengalischoinescapable that they constitute the lars are a little doubtful about it and
31‘ibete- Burman group ०1' what is are prepared to loCate the MahabhakpoWn as the Kiratas of the Maha. rata Manipur somewhere in Kalinga.
bharata. 'I‘he inﬂux of the Brahmins But the great Sanskrit scholar and also
from North India in various capa— a great Indologist of Manipur, Panditcities including, of course priestly raj Atombapu Sharma, dedicated a
functions in a large measure, started, ' large measure of his research to proving
historically speakmg, as early as the that this Manipur is exactly tha
t Mareign of king Kyamba ( 11467-1508 habharata Manipur and he took the
A. D.) People from the East mestly

from Burma, also joined the process
of integration which has now assumed
more or less a composite group of
Manipuri people.

main

obstacles

But one of

to

an

the

adequate

understanding of the ancient culture is that a vast literature of

help of geographical and astronomical
evidence, besides his profound understanding of the lines of the epic. This

Opinion was conﬁrmed by another
eminent research scholar, late W.
Yumjao Singh. It1s also on record
that the present terrritory of Manipur
was a much bigger one extending even

