IMPACT OF VAISH'NAVISM ON MANIPURI CU
LTURE

to the bank of Brahmaputra as late
as the 15th century A. D. And what
does the Mahabharata episode prove ?
I am not an orthodox Hindu who literally believes in the exact historical
event, even though the Mahabharata
is a history, an ‘Itihas’ in the minds

of the Hindus. The Mahabharata
episode proves only the extent of
Aryan inﬂuence in that age, most
possibly, about 1000 B. C. If the
present Kamarup of Assam is that
Pragjyotishpura of the Mahabharata
there is not much difﬁculty, perhaps,
in identifying the ancient Manipur with
the Mahabharata Manipur.

Panditraj Atombapu who has been
compared by Dr. S. K. Chatterjee to
Rishi Agastya of the South, proved,

17

Mangang gurus, of every Manipuri
household.
The Panditraj further
proved that the Vedic union of Heaven and Earth is still represented in
the traditional festival of ManipurLai Haraoba. It does not, of course,
prove that the ancient Manipuris
were Aryans. It points to the extent
of Aryanisation and the process of
integration which might have start
ed
long ago in Manipur: In view of t
he
fact that even in Burma, t
he tradi-

tions of Brahman and Kshatriya
expansion go back to the ﬁrst half
of
the millenium before Christ,
this
point of view deserves a serious
con-

sideration and further research, specially in the context of the tradition
al
Pre—Aryan culture of the Mongoloid
people. To quote Dr. S. K. Chatter»
jee, “It is quite likely that the Kuki—
chin or Meitei people of Manipur
were similarly within the fold of Hindudom by 500 A.D. at least, although
tradition would make it much earlier"

with the help of a considerable amount
of research, that the Manipuris practised the sanatana Dharma in the Prehistoric period. He discovered a lot
of aﬂinities between the Vedic gods
and the Manipuri gods. According to his
ﬁndings, the Vedic Surya in the form
Historically speaking, Vaisnavism.
of Visnu, the gods of three strides may be sa
id to have assumed a distinctPredba Nidadbe Padam was worshipped expre
ssion in Manipur in 763 A. D.
by the ancient Manipuris and the same durin
g the reign of king Khongtekcha.
Visnu known as Bhargadeva of the A copp
er plate inscription of this Brahma Gaytri continues to be wor- king says
that the king was a devoteeshipped even to this day.
This is of Shiva and Devi and regarded Hari
‘Phunga lairu' (a corrupted expression at the Supre
me God. The ever-growof Bharga lai Aruba, lai meaning god
ing expansion of the puranas reached
and Aruba, important, resting on a positively
this area at least by this
tripod viz Khuman, Luwang and time and t
he process of integration

