IM P A C '1‘

. 1a

OF VAISHNAVISM ON MANIPURI CULTURE

danced in 64 separate sessions of
Samkirtana at the Royal palace and
search for the Padavalis continued up
to Nabadwip and Vrindavan. Great

ple. But strange is perhaps the word
for this style of life. They often weep,
cry or lie prostrate at the various
samkirtana performances. To shed

teachers,

tears at the grief of Radh is

musicians

and

drummers

natural

elaborating and enriching the classical ' enough. But to weep on the part of the
heritage of India Without deviating Bhakta when Radha in the role of the
from the grace and charm of the abhisarika N ayika, starts dressing her. native genius were patronised by the
kings. Their abilities and scholarship
overwhelm the present generation of
musicians and scholars,

self should be considered strange. To
understand the heart and mind .of a
Manipuri Vaishnava, one has to go to
the depth of Vaishnava aesthetics as

To the Manipuri Vaishnavas, Sankirtana is really a Maha Yajna—a form
of worship and prayer, associated
closely with the life of the people.

interpreted in the hands of the revered

All the dances, festivals and leelas
are Bhakti-oriented. The life cycle

of a Manipuri is now markedby a
series of sankirtana in its various
stages-birth ( Sasti puja on the sixth
day)

Anna

Prasana,

Karnavedh,

adopting the sacred thread, marriage,
death (at the various stages of cremation, asthi sanchaya,

Shraddha and

Anniversary ). Samkirtanas constitute
the soul of Manipuri culture. The
Sanskrit work Narada Samhita sums
up beautifully the spirit : “I do not
dwell in Heaven nor in the heart of the
yogis. There only I abide, O Narada,
where my lover sings".
What is a Manipuri Vaishnava?
This is not the occasion for me to
describe eleborately all the rituals,
philosophy and tradition of these peo-

Goswamis of Vrindavan,

Particular

mention may be made of two outstanding works, Bhakli Rasamrita Sindhu, followed by the supplement, Ujjvala Nilas

mani of Rupa Goswami. The love of
Krishna ( Krishna-rati ) becomes the
dominant feeling '५ Sthayibhava),whichg
through its appropriate excitants ( Via
bhavas) as well asensuants (anubhavas)
and auxiliary feelings ( Vyabhichari—
bhavas ) is raised to a supreme'relishable condition in the Vaishnava heart

as the Bhakti—rasa.

Bhakti to the

Manipuri Vaishnava is not a Bhava
but a Rasa which admits of 5 types
viz Santa ( with same. bhava ), Prita
( with dasatva bhava ), Preyas ( with
Sakhyabhava ), Vatsalaya ( vatsalya

bhava ) and Madhura r with Madhura
rati ). And of the ﬁve, the last namely
Madhura Rasa is the most important
and being known as Bhakti-rasa~raj it
is the subject of a very detailed treat-r
ment in Ujjvala 'Nilamani.

