20

MAN I]? U RI THEATRE

This does not, of course, mean that
the Manipuris have now discarded
their traditional way of life or the
past form of worship. It represents
only a process of integration within
the liberal form of a Hindu view of
life. Dr. S. Radhakrishnan writes in
his “The Hindu view of life” : “The
Hindu method of reform enables
every group to retain its past association and preserve its individuality
and interest”. This is certainly true
of the Manipuri Vaishnavas also. The
old way of worshiping the Heaven
( Atiya Guru Sidaba or Sorarel ),
Sanamahi, Pakhangba, and Ima Laimarel Shidabi (Mother Earth) is
still preserved in various festivals and
in eVery family. Names and rituals
are still retained and these are still
vibrant and dynamic. Their signi—
ﬁcance is only deepened in the Vaishnava way of life.
Even Lord
Shiva who played the role of a senti~

nel in the eternal play of Rasa Leela
at Vrindavan, had to create another

Lai Haraoba festival, just to satisfy
the great desire of Parvati who was
not allowed to witness it. This popular Manipuri legend betrays the
integration of the Tantric tradition
with the Vaishnava tradition.
I am not prepared to hold the
view that the process of religious and
cultural integration among the Mani—
puris has now completed. Integration

is, perhaps, a continual process. It is
to the credit of the great Vaishnava.
kings of Manipur that they took particular care to preserve the ancient way
of prayer and worship by keeping
separate departments or loisangs for
the priests and priestesses ( Maiba
and Maibi ) and the pandits of the
ancient lore. Even the keeping of
the royal chronicle known as ‘Chei.
tharol Kumbaba” is entrusted to the

Department of pandits known as Pandit loisang. These Maibas and Maibis
are sent to the celebration of various
Lai Haraoba festivals in honour of
village gods and goddesses exceeding
300, where the entire villages participate for a week or so, leaving aside for
a while the strict Vaishnava form of
prayer. The people also recently witness the rise of racial self consious-_
ness and almost a struggle in a way to
stage a return to the dim past among
certain groups of people, keeping
perhaps in tune with the peculiar
phenomenon of our times.
Vaishnavism came to the valley of

Manipur, only to stay, to fulﬁll and
be rebon, synthesising the old with
the new, and expressing a composite
cultural heritage. A vital touch of'
liberalism also has been brought to
bear on this process. The manifestation
of revivalism may represent just a
transition, pointing to a need to clear
away “much wood that is dead and

