22

MANIPUBI THEATRE

It was orihe created was Manipur.
inally a vast lake nestling in the
Ticsom of evergreen hills. The Lord
Siva and Parvati, recoenoitring the
earth, perceived this lake from the
top of Mount Uday Giri, Nungmalchlng
in the Meitei language. He drove his
trident into the lake and caused the
waters to ﬂow through the holes thus
made into the adjoining rivers. The
marks of the trident are said to be
still visible and are pointed out in
the Chingnunghut mountain through

tinues generally for seven to ﬁfteen

days, sometimes even for a month,
The festival consists not only of the
spell—binding ritual dances but also

other items which reproduce games
like Sagol Kangjei (polo) Khong Kangjei

( hockey ),I Thouri Chingnaba ( tug of
war). lliyang Tannaba ( boat-race),
and even sword ﬁghting that the gods
and goddesses are supposed to have
played. The Lai Haraoba is a perfect
mirror of the culture of the people.
The festival is conducted by Malba

which the water of the Loktak lake

meet the Chindwin river; When the
waters had drained away, the Lord
Siva commanded nine gods called Lai
' Bungthou Maapal and seven goddesses
called Lai Nura Tare! to fetch earth
frOm heaven and spread it over the
dried—up lake. When the task was
done, the gods and goddesses threw
themselves whole-heartedly into merry—making, dancing and singing.

If Manipur is the handiwork of the
Lord Siva, the great Manipuri dance
called Lai Haraoba is a revival of the
merry-making of the gods and goddesses.

The Lai ﬂaraoba ( Lai~ god ;

Haraoba—merry—making ) festival is
celebrated with great pomp and enthusiasm from February to June on

days declared to be auspicious by
३ the pandits.
The festival extends
practically to every village in Manipu-r, but on different days, and con-

( priest ) and Maibis ( priestesses ). The
latter are selected for life when they
are found to he possessed by the divine

afﬂatus.

These

persons

are

always clad in white. The entire
village participates in the festival
and the focal point of all celebrations is the temple around which temporary huts are constructed to accom—

modate the participants. The temples
contain no images, but on the occasion
of L the festival, symbolic images of

Lord Siva ( Lai Ningthou ) an Parvati
( Lairemma ) are solemnly installed
for the duration of the festival.
The festival commences with an
elaborate invocation of the divine
spirit, following which the Maibis dance
holding the leaves of the sacred plant.
Langthrei, between the ﬁngers. When

the Maibis have completed their dance,
other dances follow which recall vividly
the legendary origins of Manipurwbhe

