THE MANIPUB I DANCE

25

gods ठेठ gurus). This Sanklrtal is sung ’ hands (mudras) are reduced to a miniand danced by Nata Pala ( a grOup of mum. In Manipuri dancing alone are
about forty-four male cymbal players). the Mridang and Kartaal employed as
It starts with “Ten Ten Ta Tak Taang”, an integral part of the dance. No
which signiﬁes the name of Chaitanya religious festival and no important
Nityai, the founder of Gaudiya Vai- eVent are complete without these
shnavism. Then follows the dance with Mridang and Kartaal dances.
The
cymbals, which goes on continuously dancers show a superb command over
for as long as three hours.
It is these two instruments, and it is fasinot unusual for the king himself to nating to watch how sound and movetake part in the Sankirtan.
ment are synchronised.
An unusual feature is the part
All these Raases are essentially spirit,
played by the female dancers, subse- tual in their sign
iﬁcance and they
quently dressed as gopis.
The cos- exhibit the great forces which are at
tumes are colourful and gorgeous and work in the universe
. At the same
represent various religious themes. time they unra
vel primeval emotions
It has been said that their walk has such as love, sacriﬁ
ce and jealousy
a ﬂow of water, their movement a

which animate the human soul. It

wave of the wind, and their devotion, should however be re
membered that
'
a spark of ﬁre.
these Raases are not merely symbolical
The La! Haraoba and Raas Leela are or divine allegories but signiﬁcant
the two most important forms of the facets of religious history. The Rage
Manipuri dance. Manipuri dancing is Leela, in particular, signiﬁes the ideas
characterised by a technique which is . of inherent bliss and it excludes any
unique. While the other systems of suggestion of conscious effort and
dancing emphasise footwork, Mani- ulterior motive in a mood of divine
puri dancing puts stress on the sinuous sportiveness. These dances haVe devoand delicate movements of hand, neck tional ecstasy, ३ romantic idealism and.
and body. Moreover, the whole body mystical sensibility, all fused and ३ blen—
is used to give expression to the mul- ded with an artisty that intoxicates‘
titude 0f moods and the gestures of the senses and elevates the soul.
( Courtesy : The Illmirated Weekly of India ).

