ABHIITAYA m MANIPUBI DANCING

:manifested in terms of idealised con-

rvoepts of histrionic arts.
The purpose of idealised and aesthetic forms of histrionic arts is to
convey, communicate and evoke sentiment which is called ‘Rasa’ by ancient Indian texts.
The range of
emotional experience is exhaust-ed in

terms of 9 categories of Rasa— sentiments. Each Rasa in further analysed
and systematised into a code of states
called ‘Bhava’ which are divided in
two main types—Vibhava—determi—
nant and Anubhava—consequence and
the varieties of Bhavas are further
explained as follows : Sthai-Dominant, Vyabhichari—transitory and
Satvika-Temperamental.
S hatras
have worked out in greater details
deﬁnite principles and diciplines for
expressing and interpreting subtle
variations of each state in relation to
the sentiment.

Abhi’naya is explained as follows :—
(a) Abbinaya in relation of Nritta, Natya and Nritya. रे
Nritta : As nritta is a pure and
abstract dance in which body movements are determined by ' rhythm
patterns for the purpose of creating
beauty, it is abhinayashunya i.e. it
has no abhinaya.

Nritya : Dance composed in order
to convey some meaning of an idea,
a concept of a feeling ( state ) either
by narration or description. By an

27

appropriate application of the four
abhinayas, Nritya seeks to express
Rasa.
‘

Natya : It is the highest form of
histrionic representation. Hence without Abhinaya there is no drama.
Though Shastras have incorporated
various forms of histrionic representations such as dance-dramas, ballet,
opera, pantomime, drama ( without
music and dance ) etc. we are particularly concerned with the forms having
dance and music. Hence, in Nayta in

this restricted sense, dance compositions
are evolved with the use of 4 Abhinayes to interprets a drama ( having a
theme, a plot, atmosphere, characterisation, action, emotional conﬂict etc.

unlike narration or description ).
(b)

Further

divided

into

four

aspects, Angikabhinaya, Vachikabhia
naya, Aharyabhinaya and
bhinaya.

Satvika—

The distinguishing trait of Manic
puri Dancing is Angikabhinaya, expression entirely through body movements. A delicate balance is achieved
between movements of the different
parts of body, rejecting emphasis on
any one part. It is a style of dance,
which pre-eminently embodies delicate
and graceful movements.
Angikabhinaya : It is an expression
through gestures, postures, move-

ments of each part of the body and

