29

ABHINAYA IN MANIIUBI DANCING

Tallina or Telena : One of the six
types of Nirgeeta, a dance based on
word arrangements suggested by the
beats of the drum, sung in a particular melody.
In Manipuri such
word arrangements are numerous.
In this, there are two Ways in
which the Mridanga is played :

(a) Though the words are suggested by the drum, they are not strictly
reproduced by the drum. The player
is free to evolve his own rhythm
pattern only for the purpose of sound
eﬁ‘ect.

(b) In which the Mridanga player
strictly follows the word arrangements
and appropriately reproduce them
in the drum.

Svarmala : Dance . based on complicated arrangements of svaras, and
musical notes sung in a particular
melody.
Chaturanga : Dance composition
based on a combination of the elements mentioned above i.e. poetry,
song, svarmala and Nirgeeta.

Klrtiprabanda : A composition
created in praise of Nayak or Nayika
( a hero or heroine ) incorporating
poetry, song, Nirgeeta. The dance is
of a nritta type which does not seek
to interprete the meaning of the song
or poem but is inspired by its rhythm
pattern.

In this composition the poetry is

either sung or the verses are spoken

in rhythm ( known as Mukhabol ).
In both the cases the mridanga
follows the song or rhythm of the
spoken verses. In the ﬁrst category
it is called Sheigonnabi and the second
is known as (lhingonnabi. These particular varieties of compositions are
very popular in Manipuri

Aharyabhlnaya : It deals with costumes,
decor.

ornaments,

make-up

and.

Costume, ornament and make-up
are evolved to enhance the particular
dance form suitable to the nature and
spirit of the social or secular occasions.
These contribute to the achievement

of the purpose of dancing of communicating and recreating particular
‘Rasa’ and ‘Bhava’.

Dimensions and decor etc. of the
Manipuri Theatre are designed and
determined by the nature and purpose of its art form.
Dances are
held in Nat Mandap ( Dancing Hall )
built in front of the temple in the
same premises. In Manipur, every
temple has a Nat Mandap and every
village has at least two or three temples. They have a traditional code,
specifying deﬁnite rules and regulations with regard to the dimensions of
the stage, auditorium, decor and thearrangement of seats according to
social status.

