30

MAN IPURI THEATRE

Saivlkabhinaya : It expresses the
understanding and the interpretation
of various states in relation to the

Sentiment.
Ancient texts for the purpose of
Abhinaya (histrionic representations)
have all the human emotions codiﬁed
into 9 distinct categories. In Manipur, Shringar, the sentiment of love,
predominates and naturally the other
8 sentiments ( Rasas ) beCOme integral
entities of the Supreme sentiment of
love (Shringar Rasa ).
This sentiment of love, Shringar,

has two main aspects, Vipralambha
( Viyog-Separation ) and Sambhog
The variations of
(milan- union );
the emotion of love originate either
from Vipralambha or Sambhog ( only

_ a few variations have been mentioned
in some of the ancient texts ).
Apart from the available texts on
Abhinaya and Natya, Vaisbnavite

scholars have worked out in greater
details the changes in states and substates of the sentiment of love, due to

various factors.
The Manipuris follow the important available vaishnavite texts like Ujialanilamani, Rasakalpavalli & Rasamaujari and have elabo-

rated the four variations of Vipra‘
lambha viz., ‘Purvarag, Maan, Pravas
and Premvaichitya into 32 types.

Similarly four variations of Sambhoga
viz., Sankshipta,

Sankeerna,

Sam-

spanna. Samridhiman are further
divided into 32 types ( due to change
in the States of sentiments themselves
and due to the changes in other facMoreover they have also
tors ).
elaborated the accepted eight states
of emotions, ( Nayikabheda ) as experienced and expressed by the heroine of a drama viz.,

Abhisarika,

Basakasajja, Utkanthita, Vipralabdha,
Khandita, Kalahantarita, Swadhina-l
bhartrika and Proshitabhartrika into
64 sub—divisions.
Manipur strictly observes these
detailed codiﬁcations while presenting
their dance dramas .and individual
compositions.

Though in Manipuri dance, the
sentiment and the mood is conveyed
through the entire body, without any
emphasis on any one part, Hastas
(Mudras) do play an important part.
They are utilised to convey some meaning or signify some object. The names
of the hand gestures serve the purpose of alphabet and become meaningful when they are used, in a
particular manner.

The Hastas according to Govind

Sangeet Leela Vilas are as follows :—
(1) Asanyuta ﬂastas : (Single handed
gestures ) :
Pataka, Tripataka,

Ardhapataka,

Khatakamukha, Samdansha, Mrigashirsha, Hansasya,lAlapallava, Bhrunga

