EAST WEST THEATRE

sublimation, it is deeply associated
with religious motives.
Social and
religious ceremonies in Manipur are

SEMINAR

1966

33

incomplete without dancing and
dancing is nothing if it is not the expression of the religious fervour.

East West Theatre Seminar I966
A REPORT
The Indian Centre of the Inter- Poland, Singapore, Thailand, Tunisia,
national Theatre Institute, the Bha— United Arab Republic, United Kingratiya Natya Sangh, invited 78 coune dom, United States of America,
tries consisting of all the members of Uganda, U. S. S. R., Yugoslavia and
the International Theatre Institute Zambia.
and other countries with whom conOf these, representatives from 8
tacts were established in the ﬁeld of
countries, viz. Argentina. Iran, Motheatre to take part in the East West
rocco, Pakistan, Poland, Thailand,
Theatre Seminar in New Delhi from "
Yugoslavia and Zambia could not
24—30 October 1966. The Seminar
at

which had the support of UNESCO,
the International Theatre Institute,
the Indian National Commission of
UNESCO and the Ministry of Edu—
cation,

Government of India,

was

tend for various reasons, including
illness or lack of funds. On the contrary, it was possible to have a spe-

cialist from France and an observer
each from Lebanon and the Netherlands.

called to consider the question of
Total Theatre and East—West Interacting
Influences.

The Seminar was inaugurated by
the President of India, Dr. Sarvepalli
Itadhakrishnan on MOnday, 24th OcOf the 78 countries invited, 23 tober, 1966 with the Minister of
declined, chieﬂy for reasons of ﬁnances. of Education, Mr. M. C. Chagla, pre55 expressed interest and made efforts siding
It opened its formal sessions
to attend.
Finally 30 countries ac- immediately thereafter.
MissRosacepted. The countries were : Afghanis- mond Gilder, President of the [TL
tan, Argentina, Australia, Cambodia,

chaired the ﬁrst session at which the

Ceylon . Czechoslovakia, East Germany,

Agenda was adopted and“ the ofﬁcerswere elected.
It was decided that
each session would have a different
Chairman and the entire conference

West Germany, Hungary, Indonesia,
Iraq, Iran, Israel, Japan, Laos, More
occo, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines,

