EAs'r was! mum swarm 1966

35.

they may be mixed to. achieve maxi-

literature was inhibiting: theatre, it

mum response among contemporary

was said, is a living experience, not

audiences.

an infusion of literature; the domia

Many deﬁnitions of total theatre
were offered and debated.
It was
suggested that total theatre is the
conventional drama of dialogue, with

nance of the script is merely an historical accident, a product of the discovery of printing and of a theatre
dominated by the bourgeoisie. Now
that more effective audio-visual
means of expression have been deve—
loped, the dominent position of the
script in drama must go.

other expressive forms added. These
forms may include music, mime,
dance, scenic conventions, and tech-

nical innovation.
Equally, it was
stated that the spoken word shares

the magic of total theatre : examples
of actual theatrical productions were
quoted in support of this.
It was concluded,

to the extent

that a conclusion was possible, that
the present concept of total theatre
really stems from an expression of
discontent with the way things are :
that both in the East and in the West
theatre seeks a fuller expression -, that
many elements can and do go into
that expression ; and that while
prescriptions varied the mixture must
be an organic whole, and its proper
tions must be determined by the
totality of participative experience
that can be brought to the contemporary mass audience.

The constituent elements of total
theatre were commented upon. There
was a difference of opinion on the
place and value of the script in theatrical experience. On one end of the
scale was the view that script as

Improvisation as a laving process
in theatre was discuesed.
Since improvisation cﬁers a direct opportunity
for audience participation, it was
considered specially relevant to the
reach of total theatre.
Even the
script, in this view, can be and has
been put together and collectively
evolved from the very process of improvisation.
An opposite viewpoint was represented in an identiﬁcation of theatre
with literature ; the script in this
view must provide the unifying imagination to theatrical experience. As
one delegate put it, “the script or the

spoken word is the essential clay of
which theatre is made", and the other

elements of drama help but to shape
that clay.

Eastern and Western examples
were mentioned. It appeared to be
the

consensus

of opinion that the

script, or formal dramatic design, was
neccessary for a coherent theatrical

