EAST WEST THEATRE SEMINAR—1966

meaningful orchestration ﬁnally came
to this: Drama may be art but it
is certainly also participative experience.
It must change with the
changing needs of its own particular
. society.
Every play makes a moral
statement and is therefore capable of
not only reﬂecting but of also helping
to reshape that society.
In this context the separate consideration of
drama as opera, word play, dance, or

spectacle is artiﬁcial and deceiving,
and the separation between theatre
and its audience, to the extent that it
exists in a. given situation, is a hind-rance to. theatrical experience, and
purpose.

Speaking from the wealth of speciﬁc theatrical experience represented
therein, the Seminar considered drama

a vital social activity, an arena for
introspection as well as signiﬁcant
personal experience; and free to choOse
its own form from a multiplicity of
available alternatives.
Deep concern was expressed for
the needs of present day audiences.
All discussion of theatrical form and

content kept coming back to it.

Spe-

ciﬁc experiments to enlarge theatrical
experience were mentioned, including
that at the Theatre de Nations in
Paris, where drama is offered as part
of the pattern of total cultural ex‘

pressicn. The essential need of theatre
and its value, were visualised in a

37

capacity for communication with as

large an audience and as fully, at as
many levels simultaneously as possible.

This desire for total communication led some delegates to reject
theatre as an art of contrivance, and
identify it instead as spontaneous
experience in the community. There ,
was a natural difﬁculty in deﬁning
this urge in words at the Seminar.
Its shape can be only sought in active
theatre, through means that are a
multitude.
As a whole, however, it
was felt that contemporary theatre
must combine the scientiﬁc experience
and the magical, and that, in terms
of the audience, it must reach the
intellectual as

well as the masses.

Theatre can be as little a concern only
of the intellect, as it is of insigniﬁcant
entertainment.

For traditional societies this may
lead to experimentation and some
hybridisation of form : so long as the
end product remains true to the needs
of national audiences, this may perhaps not be a bad thing. As one de—
legate put it, the purpose of theatre
is to further the human scale for
delight; it is a game we all play, a
ritual and a design of our own makin g.

The Seminar ultimately returned
to the idea that sparked it in the ﬁrst
place : the interaction of the East and

