MAN IPUBI THE A TBE

38

West (these geographic distinctions
kept being sorely questioned ) in
A good deal of national
theatre.
theatrical analysis emerged -, mutual
inﬂuences were rejected and sought.
Some formalistic borrowings were
noticed.
The ﬁnal convergence was,

however, viewed as the ponnt of equilibrium between the prosaic and the

Benegal and accepted with two absten-

tions, Israel and United Kingdom.

This East-West Theatre Seminar,
meeting in New Delhi, having consi-

dered for the ﬁrst time in formal
debate the question of Total Theatre,
believes that while a full deﬁnition
must await many further discussions,
Total Theatre is an expression of

poetic in theatre, that which proceeds
theatre in all its totality which em-

by argument and that which seeks
dramatic purpose in a total involvement of the individual person.
The progress of theatre both in
the East and the West was considered
in parallel cycles of growth; these
may have been interrupted at different times but their essential parallelism marks their uniqueness as well as
t’he universality of theatrical experience.

The Western theatre may presently
, ﬁnd itself caught at a neurotic spot है
and the Eastern theatre may be
reaching out for voices of social revolt: their importance to each other,
and their interaction, lie in their com-

mon search for meaningful theatrical
expression, born of their common concern with humanity.
The Seminar
strongly urged that this concern
through interaction be encouraged.
2. RESOLUTION ON TOTAL THEATRE AND
TASKS BEFORE THE THEATRE MOVEMENT

Presented

by

the Director, Sam

ploys exery means, in an artistically
integrated manner to satisfy intellectual and popular desire. Such a theatre can communicate with the largest
numbers of people.
The world today is faced with the
most profound islsues of war and
peace, survival and annihilation, pros-

perity and poverty है its interdependence is almost complete and conse—
quently the need for understanding
among peoples down to the individual
has become increasingly urgent. The
great meeting of peoples, and the con—
sequent clash of cultures requires that
at the point of contact there be harmony and not discord.

The emergence of new nations for
social, cultural and national indenti-

ties is a phenomenon of the cantemporary world These nations require
the fullest opportunity for fulﬁlling
their aspirations.
Theatre as the most durable of
man’s creative arts which in every

epoch has profoundly inﬂuenced the

