EAST WES'!‘ THEATRE SEMINAR 1936

minds of men has both a responsibility and an honoured opportunity to
be of service once again.
This Siminar believes—
That the world theatre movement
must place itself at the vanguard of
popular aspirations.
That it should speak for positive
issues as affect man’s life in peace,
security an d prosperity in the world.
That it must help traditional forms
३ to survive and ﬂourish so as to offer
constructive aid and inspiration to
the theatre movement. '
That it must help in all constructive ways emerging nations and cultures to ﬁnd their national theatre, and
That it must help the movement
everywhere to evolve a contemporary
theatre which can reﬂect the great

issues of our times.
This Seminar believes that Without any prejudice to all existing forms
of theatre a search for a total form
which can help in all the above tasks
must continue With vigour.
Ill.

RESOLUTION 0N EAST-WEST
EXCHANGES IN THEATRE

Presented on behalf of the Projects
Committee by Abdul Rashid Bin Ismail
( Malayasia ) and accepted with one
abstention ( United Kingdom)

39

pection, and education that theatre
offers in swiftly changing societies,
recommends that :

(A) All countries acting through
their Government and through other
channels :
l. Organise regional festivals of
theatra.
These festivals should be
held at regular intervals, and it is
considered particularly important in
the context of this Seminar that an
Asian Theatre Festival be instituted,

to take place every alternate year in
different countries by rotation, and

Open to all countries of Asia and Africa and any other country that may
wish to participate. This would give
a ﬁllip to national theatres as well
as provide an opportunity for usefir:
exchange of theatrical experience -,
2. Take immediate steps to sup—~
port traditional means of theatrical
expression and training in different
countries to see that those forms re-

main vital and do not die out. In
addition speciﬁc projects must be
immediately initiated for the fullest
documentation of these forms through
documentury ﬁlms and other means
both for the historical Value of such
documentation, for its exchange be—
tw: en interested countries, and for a

the role of theatre in human affairs,
its present position of crisis and the

living integration of these forms with
contemporary theatrical expression ;
3. Must ensure a larger exchange

immense possiblilities for social intros—

of scholars and theatre artists

This Seminar having deliberated

and

