4O

MANIPURI THEATRE

technicians for a clearer understanding
of theatrical forms and their possibi«
lities ;
4-

Should see that,

at the level

of exchange of performing groups,
productions that are representative
of the country concerned and of the
highest artistic merit only are offered
for exchangei It is considered that
an exchange of secondorate productions merely distorts the image of
the donor cruntry, without encouraging good eﬁorts in the receiving
country itself.
In this connection it specially recommended that the emphasis should
not be on popular spectacle alone but
that the theatre of ideas expessed
through the spoken word he also
exchanged.
5. Should join the International
Theatre Institute to facilitate exchanges of theatrical experience at all
levels. .
(B) ' The member goverments of
Unesco exploit to a greater extent the
facilities available Whithin

assistance,

Uuesco’s

for the development of

theatre :

(C) l. Unseco’s East-West Major
Project for the Mutual Appreciation of
cultures be continued for another ten
years, and extended to cover the coun-

tries 'of the Middle-East, Africa, and
Latin America ,

2.

Unesco should, within its pro-

] gramme, devote more resources and

attention to the development of theatre as an activity of vital social signiﬁcance;
3. And that Unesco’s acc epted;
programme for encouraging translations of Oriental Classical plays be
pursued with greater vigour and be
enlarged to include contemporay
drama as well as drama from MiddleEastern and African counties.
IV. RESOLUTION 0"
ASIAN THEATRE BUREAU

Presented on behalf of The Asian
Nations Committee by Faiz. M. Kim-irzada ( Afghanistan ) and accepted with
four abstentions, Cambodia, Hungary,
Israel and United Kingdom;
The Asian delegates to the East-

West Seminar having met and considered their common problems propose the following :
Throughout the do mains
of
those areas of the world which
are emerging or developing, new
latent and living traditions and pose
sibilities exist
offering
immense
opportunities for theatre to play a
great and positive part in the fundamental tasks of achieving nationhood,
prosperity and social order and through
them lasting bonds of understanding
and identity amongst themselves and
with other parts of this earth.
There already exists an Interna-

tional Theatre Institute whose broadbased aims on a world level are iden--

