EAST wnsr THEATRE SEMINAR—1966

41

tical with these aims but in Order 'to … international,co-operation and under«
allow more intimate association and
chances of immediate contact for Asia,
this seminar recommends as a ﬁrst

step the setting up of an Asian Theatre Bureau which would gather within
it from Asia and the areas associated
with it individual nations or groups
with a common background of history,
language and culture which subscribe
to the aims of the Bureau so that in
concert they may carry the theatre
movement to the widest possible

standing among workers in Theatre;

6. To diffuse through performances, the organization of festivals
and international tours, through education, conferences, and publications;
and
7.

To exchange scholars, specia-

lists,

theatre

workers

within the

region, Specially over an extended
period.
The requisite ﬁnances for ‘ the
setting up, maintenance and function-

ing of the Bureau maybe raised by
audiences, and advance it for the well—

being, contentment and
man.

pleasure of

the member countries of the region
and through assistance from voluntary,

The concrete aims of the proposed
Asian Theatre Bureau might be :
1. to initiate, promote. and co-ordinate the theatre movement in Asia ;

2. to be the regional centre for
research in theatrical arts, techniques
etc ;

3. to be the regional depository
for all documents and objects concerning Theatre;

individual,

institutional

and

international agencies.
For practical purposes the Bureau
might be organised areaowise with a.
co—ordinating direction.
This Seminar hopes that at an
appropriate time the member-countries of the Bureau individually and
the Bureau collectively will join the
International Theatre Institute on
acceptable terms.

This Seminar recommends that a

4: to be the regional centre for meeting of all the Asian and assocollection and dissemination of infor- ciated countries be convened to conmation pertaining to Theatre.
sider the formal adoption of this
5. to promote intra-regicnal and proposal and its implementation.

