NOTES ON THE THEATRE-TOTAL AND MLNIPUBI

almost

disillusioned.

None

of the

much advertised pieces—Rukmini’s
Gita Govindam (Kalakshetra, Madras)
Bhamakalapam ( Kucbipudi of Andh—
ra Pradesh ) Svapnavasavadattam
( Koodiyattam style ) and the Temptation of the Buddha (Kathakali from
Kerala) or Mrinalini’s Abhinaya Darpan ( Darpana, Ahmedabad ) could
give much of an impact on our modern sensibilities. What we are wit.
nessing n W is only a spirit of revivalism and not much of a creative
reinterpretation, having a meaning
for contemporary audience. The sense
of “ethical debate” (an expression
from Peter Fries of Israel ) was sadly
lacking in them inspite of the fact
that our Mahabharata or Shakuntala
lad it in a large measure. 1 had an
irresistible feeling that the various
dance dramas did not relate to the
present and were merely artistic with
a large dose of entertainment value.
This is not precisely what we need at
the moment. But as E. Alkazi beautifully puts it, “We must discover
and create new forms in consonance
with our beliefs and vision and our

own immediate experience of life” or
Mr. 'l‘anvir, “the poet has to infuse
into the new drama the anguished
poetry of the times flowing in song”.
I found this answer when I witnesed
Shambhu Mitra’s play "Raja” of Tagore and I know I shall discover the
same echo in the productions from

46

Alkazi though we were denied this
pleasure in the seminar.
(Nov. 30, 1966 )
a
it
a
८३१८
Manipur is undoubtedly a land of
artistic talents. Her dances and thea—
tre were something of which every
Manipuri felt proud.
Recently I
have a persistent feeling that this
image of artistic beauty is on the
Way of being shattered, which affects.
the vitals of Manipuri art. Manipur'
remains, at the moment, isolated and
forlorn, with a Narcissus-complex, entirely cut off from the fresh winds of
culture outside. Manipuri art is fast
becoming a museum piece. My personal experience of the theatrical
trends of the East and the West in
the recent seminar at New Delhi hasonly conﬁrmed my previous suspicion.
I conﬁne myself to theatre in Manipur
which is almost deed, despite government subsidies, Theatre Centre, Mani~
pur and the Drama festivals. It was
the Bengali theatre in the early twenties which gave inspiration and life
to modern Manipuri theatre. It had
a dream and vision, keeping a silken
link with the evolving Bengali theatre.
Now with the coming of independenoe and a considerable dose of on].
tural assertion linked with rejection
on all frOnts Manipuri theatre has lost
touch with the mainstream, except in
some translation pieces from Bengali
drama. Except G. C. 'I‘ongbra who has

