.46

- 'MANIPURI Jrnn'rn

the insight but not friends ( and still
crying ), there is no serious modern
(playwright, worth the name. It is
only Manipur Dramatic Union which
is struggling to keep abreast of the

was overwhelmed with the beauty of
productions of Shambu Mitra viz. Ta.
gore’s Rain and Rain Oid‘ipss in Bengali
in New Delhi l he image and the echo
of the astounding performance have

recent trends but without the necessary vision, technique and experience.
Theatre is a serious art. It demands
a highly specialised study, excellent
team-work and a contemporary vision.
Manipur has still rich human materials
which could match eVen a ﬁrst prize
in the folk category of the National
Drama Festival in New Delhi held
'in the year 1954. But it happened
12 years ago. The plain fact is that
nobody takes now Manipuri theatre
seriously -, people occasionally go
there just to relax and see a few wellknown faces in between their constant
visits to the cinema. I put a simple te st :
.what theatre-workers of Manipur have
heard bf “alienation—effect” which was
the only style discussed in the recent
seminar. Even Ibsen and Chekhov
a l‘ e D a m 6 8
which would strike the
artists as strange. Manipuri theatre
had a. glorious past; but it has a
p o o r p re s e n t and a very an X io u s

taken roots in my mind. This amateur troupe may be invited to stage a
few plays in Manipur and op: 11 the
minds of the theatre workers and theatre-lovers of Manipur to the beauty of
contemporary theatre. They would,
at least, have a picture of a standard
production I know this would be
a puSitiVe experience to ail. A sponsoring group like Theatre Centre,
Manipur- can take up the initiative
with liberal government assistance
and co-operation from the public. Se-

future.

I have two suggestions to make by
way of diagnosis and remedy. Let
us have Manipuri Theatre “dragged
kicking and screaming into the twentieth century” ( Adlai Stevenson’s ex,pression about Republican Party ). I

condly, at least one or two students

should be sent to New Delhi for study
in the National Schcol of Drama and
Asian Theatre Institute which was
patterned on Royal Academy of Dramatic Art of London of which E.
Alkazi, its present director, was a
student, but a brilliant oae
tie has
improved on the parent model to impart to it a national touch. The people, at least the artists, should be

given an Opportunity to understand
what contemporary theatre is
it
may be difﬁcult, but not too difﬁcult,
to ﬁnd out the right type of students.
But the only alternative is stagnation
and death.
(Dec. '7, 1966)

