N O '1‘E 8 O N '1‘H E

TEIA TEE-T O 'I‘AL A N D

I had the occasion to examine
closely the recent All Manipur Drama
Competition in which ten recognised
drama groups participated and struggled to give the best possible the-atrical expression.
This gOVernmentsponsored festival was in connection
with the 1 1! h Annual Drama Festival
to be held in Nov.- Dec. in New Delhi.
I had already expresSed many misgivings through this column about the
future of Manipur theatre : its stagnation and growing deterioration and
lagging far bPlIind contemporary
thv atre. Most of the scripts were dull,
didactic and disappointing
Though
a gift from Bengal, Manipuri theatre
still belongs to Pre—D. L Roy period
with the crisis or conﬂict in character
being conspicuously absent in almost
all the plays. The social values and.
norms were tacitly approved and not
questioned Only G C Tongbra with
his Mani Mamou (Society Theatre) questions some of the traditional beliefs,
but he could hardly give a convmcing

M A N IP URI

4'1

of co-ordination among the artists. S.
Krishnamohon’s old play Manipul’
(iuvlnda (Rupmahal) introduced some
polwical over-tones to an otherwise

great warrior and bhakta, Rajarshi
bhagyachandra against a plot Which

goes 'much against popular beliefs and
failed ultimately to deliVer the goods.
A particular scene lingers still in
my memory : that of the Rajarshi
lying prostrate in prayer throughout
the night hill dawn invitees him to
conquer the ferocious elephant. A
few plays introduced 8 O m 6 good
artnsrs and a large dose of dances at
inappropriate places and mention
may be made of E. Joychandra’s B. A.
Lamja ( Manipur Artists Touring Drama Party ) which introduced an excel-r
lent tribal chief and his adopted
daughter. But M. Biramangal’s Shija

Laicibi ( Aryan Theatre ) an old play,
received an excellent production in
the matter of stage craft and authentic expression of Manipuri culture,
which created a profound impact on
the audience. The image of the Rajarshi and that of daughter were brought

reply. The mother—in-law vs daugh—
ter-in—law struggle were presented in a
mock~heroic style with a lot of farci- out in clear focus and satisﬁed the
cal language and it ended in a tragic popular sentiments and myths at
note. 8. Bormani’s Kege Lamja ( M. various levels. The cultural aspects
D.U. ) was patterned on the familiar were excellently done against the
Khamba Thoibi story and failed to silken thread of the plot. But still
create much of an impact on the au- the play left room for improvement
dience, even though it was presented in the ﬁeldof script and productionagainst excellent stage decor and effec- style.
( Oct. 25, 1967 )
tive light with a considerable amount
9g:
'
की
चैनी
जैहै
"

