48

HANIPURI THEATRE

The extremely popular yatra festival which the Theatre Centre, Mani.
pur, organised with singular competence, deﬁnitely proved that the character of the recent yatra had undergone a radical change since the early
twenties when religious themes and

mild social satire dominated the ﬁeld.
Now the people see themselves in
the mirror presented in such plays
like

Areiba Vote

(Purchased Vote),

Chaktangba ( famine ) and Ningol Mawa
Pass ( the son-in— law who has passed )
of G. C. Tongbra, with deﬁnite accent on contemporary politics and
society. I found myself in the big
gathering, witnessing 'I‘ongbra’s play,
laughing and clapping all the while.
It reminded us slightly of the Shavian New Women. And What beautiful
ladies the three males played with
such artistry and grace ! It is only a
pity that the three most popular plays
did not get any recognition whereas
the prize went to the dark horses. The
organisers also applied such outdated
and inappropriate yard sticks as folk,
modern and traditional to the se yatras.
And the judges with their conservative outlook were undoubtedly out
of step with the peoples’ hopes and
aspirations. If they challenge the
verdict of the people, it is unfortunate. It is for the Theatre Centre,
Manipur, to see that they pay genuine
respects to the people's art and understand their hopes and anxieties. And

it should give merit where it is due,
By ignoring artists who rightly do:
serve recognition and encouragement,
it would do positive disservice to a
people’s art. I am sorry to writethese unpleasant lines for an organisation which worked hard indeed to
make the festival a success. But my
loyalty to good art demands it.
( Feb. 1, 1967 )
as
a
a):
३८८

It was a recent function at New
Delhi Where Dr. Zakir Hussain gave
away the Sangeet Natak Akademi
Awards. The distinguished exponent
of Bharat Natyam, smt Rukmini devi
said a very sensible thing on that
occasion. Thanking the president and
the Akademi on behalf of the Awardwinners (l5 in all), she “expressed the
hope that the government would not
only continue to recognise and honour
artists, it would also see that they
did not suffer from want. worries
and anxieties” This fact of eminent artists being neglected and
suffering from want and worries really
stares us in the face in Manipur.
This area has not been able to do much
for our stage artists, dance artists
and even musician's. Except the samkirtana and the yatra artists who have
been patronised by the people, no
artist gets the recognition and help
which he rightly deserves. Very recently, a two-month Drama and
Yatra Festival was organised by the

