NOTES ON TH] THIA’I‘Bl-TOTAL AND MANIPUBI

49'

Publicity Department of Manipur. I meantime, Manipuri Theatre is fast
was, of course, infected for a ‘while‘by I ’beCOming a museum piece having
the beaming smiles of gratitude from ‘ deviated from the mainstream of
the young artists as they received
lndian theatre. I hazard this opinion,
the ‘Best’ awards from Mrs (Dr.) Uma having availed myself of the opporSinha and acknowledged the applause tunity of examining closely the conof the enthusiaslic audience. It is to tempory trends in modern Indian
the credit of the publicity ofﬁcer, theatre as exhibited in Calcutta and
Govt. of Manipur that he made some Delhi and I have not the least doubt
sincere and honest effort to make the that Manipuri theatre is bound to die
festival a success and I was really con- Unless serious efforts are made to
soled by the fact that at least some revitalise it. But it is almost a cry
thing was done with a fair measure in the wilderness. Who would listen
of success. But the vision proved to to this persistent cry of agony from
be shortlived. Drama in Manipur is Manipuri theatre ? rI‘here is the
dying a slow and cancerous death with Theatre Centre, Manipur, which is as
no serious effort to diagnose the good as nonexistent. "I‘he governdisease on the part of the peOple and ment would not have the necessary
the government. These ‘Best’ award patience and wisdom to diagnose the
winners—individuals and institutes— disease. It is the people who should
would sleep once again, only to wake initiate the move and set the ball rollup at the next Annual festival. ing. But where are we ? New nor
ms
Except the modern play, Judge Sahebki and values suited to a dynamic so
ciety
lmung ( adjudged the best in modern had to be created, said Dr. Zakir
category : script by A. Somorendra ) Husain in the recent Akademi Award
which was reportedly produced in presentation function. Modern theatre
the contemporary style, there was no demands “well educated serious mind
serious mention of any play presented ed and mature workers who have some
in the festival. There was no occasion idea to the direction which they would
also for the annual stock—taking of like the theatre to proceed.” Do
the last year’s performance in the these ideas make any sense in Manipur,
ﬁeld of theatre and yatras in the form I wonder ?
of symposia and seminars. In the
( Feb. 28, 1968' l;

