The Manipuri Theatre and Drama
By M. आणा SINGH and H. ROMOANI आस्था।
The Manipuri drama has its origin
in the performances of dance and
music at religious and community
' festivals. The Manipuri “Laiharaoba”
from which sprang our theatre is
purely an action song with dramatic
«effect. The vision of man in movement is instilled by hymns and dances
describing the history of Creation and
the birth of man according to our
traditional myth in a rhythm appro-

being looked forward to as the haps
in
ta
un
mo
s,
od
wo
ar
ul
ic
rt
Pa
t.
pies
and meadows form the places of
performances and

such

places

are

held sacred. The priests and prietesses
who take the lead preserve the heri
tage of the hymns and songs. They
appear in their customary costumes
and other participants wear dresses
distinctive of their ranks. Their cos«
tumes create the proper atmosphere
priate to the passionate nature of our and heighten the splendour of the whole
worship. ‘Lﬁiharaoba’ is the depicting scene Supremacy of God and romantic
of Creation in dance-drama. Men and love forms the motif of all our rites.
women, boys and girls as well as chil- In the Manipuri Laibaraoba There is
dren take part in it. It is divided much of plot, situation and action.
into three categories: the ﬁrst namely In it we giVe expression to the aestheChakpa—Haraoba, given in Summer, tic elements which form an essential
includes all our rites connected with trait of Manipuri character.
the human endeavour to please the
It is believed that the ﬁrst Manipuri
highest God -. the second namely
drama in a crude form dates from t he
Moirang-l‘laraoba, given in Autumn,
reign of king Khuyai Tompck by the
includes all our rites connected with
middle of the second century A. D.
the adventurous and romantic life of
On a happy occasion of the king’s
'Tbangiing, a local deity, and the third
triumphal return to his palace from
namely Kangleiaﬂaranba, performed
the battle, his men gave a play
in Spring, includes all our rites conrepresenting the heroic deeds of the
nected with the most romantic life of
king in the battle before an audience
our Goddess Panthoibi whom we regard
consisting of the members of the royal
as Parbali, the consort of Lord Siva.
family and some persons of note.
These festivals are performed in their
appropriate seasons and each nne
A change in the form of entertainmeans a continuous outdoor festival ment took place during the reign of
of a week or mow, the occasions
king Taothingmang from 263 A. D.

