THE MANIPUBI THEATRE AND DRAMA

Some persons disguised themselves
with black masks made of bamboos
in the form of demons in order to
ward off the evil spirits. The performances were given in the roads and
ﬁelds amid the great rejoicings of
the spectators and they were greatly

popular till 363 A. D. The theme of
these masque plays was the triumph
of virtue over vice.
The reign of Naokhongba from 410
A. D. saw the beginning of opera in
Manipur. The themes included stories
0f the Ramayana and later other mythological stories followed. The play—
ers were mostly king’s men attached

51

opera as early as 1597 A. D. when
king Khagemba allowed women to sing
in the opera. The Opera became as
lively as present-day drama serving
the society. Alike in theory and
practice, the Manipuri opera resembles
a straight drama of action, of plot
and situation;

but characterisation

was of secondary importance in it.
Some essential elements of wit and
humour, frivolitv and fun in our ancient as well as modern operas teach
the spectators human lessons through
the imaginative dialr-gue and realistic
acting of the players.

The reign of Khagemba beginning
to the royal house.

But with the
from 1597 was remarkable in that he

spread of its inﬂuence other people
began to participate in it from 1432
A. D. Records of the opera performances of the stories “Prahlad” and
“Chandrajini” during the reign of
Klyamba in 1467 A. D. are still available.

The opera held its sway over

the minds of the people for a long
period from 410 to 1748 A. D. It
increased in number and popularity
and helped to bring home to the
people the great morals of the stories
of the two great Hindu epics the
Ramayana and the Mahabharata.
During the reign of king Chitsal from
1748 A, D. all performances connec—
ted with the Ramayana were forbidden and those of the Mahabharata
only were allowed.
Women began to take part in the

made numerous improvements in
settings and decoration. For the
ﬁrst time painted and embroidered
curtains came into vogue and the
playhouses were set up. The scenic
effects were rendered highly realis-s
tic and the artistic taste of the people
became varied.

It is worth mentioning that from
1753 A D. the religious operas came
to be replaced by romantic ones. The
romantic stories about the love of
the princes and princesses of Manipur
were rendered into opera. The dialogue given in poetic form heightened
dramatic effects upon the
the
audience. The costumes of the players
were given in traditional style, that
looked more gorgeous and splendid. _.

