52

MANIPUBI

THEATRE

-

~

Next came Baas Leela, our greatest achievement in the realm of

The most remarkable achievment.
in the realm of theatre during the

creative arts, in the year 1776 A. D.

period from 1851 to 1886 A. D. was
the presentation of the mythological
play, ‘Kallya llaman’ under the kind
patronage of Sir Chandra Kirti Maharaja. It marked Signiﬁcant changes in
the style of presentation in comparison with the other plays so far writThe story centred round the
ten.
cruel endeavour of the snake Kaliy to
kill Lord Shree Krishna and his
Braja Gopas by poisoning the water
of the Yamuna. The unique feature of
the play was the natural environment
in which the performance was put up.
A beautiful part of a bill with a river
ﬂowing near by, which represented

The high philosophy of Sreemad
Bhagavat and poet Jaideva’s Git Govmda is rendered alive through dance.
There is no doubt about the theatri—
cal conception inherent in ‘Raas Lila.’
It exerted certain inﬂuence on Manipuri drama so far as the aesthetic
elements are concerned.
By about the beginning of the
nineteenth century a new type of play
depicting the early life of Lord Shree
Krishna, which we have now under
the name SanSenba, was for the ﬁrst

time introduced. Only the children
take part in it. ‘The ﬁrst part of the
play is done in a shed set up for the
purpose and the second part in the
open air.’ The theme includes Lord
Shree Krishna’s tending the cows in
the company of Braja Gopas, the
torture ofKansa upon the cowboys as
well as upon Lord Krishna and Bale
Ram, the killing of Bakasur and
Dhenukasur by Lord Shree Krishna
and the play ends with the return of
Shree Krishna to his house. It can
be said that the movement of the
children’s theatre in Manipur started
right from this period. The impulse,
emotion of the audience are intensiﬁed by the rhythm of the devotional
nature of the play ; its appeal is more
striking than that of many a theatri-

cal performance done on the stage.

the river Yamuna, was chosen as the

playground. The players acted in
the true spirit of the play and every
bit of their movement and gestures

was meaningful.

The situations were

wonderfully realistic in the natural

environment of the scene. The spectators while witnessing the play
thought themselves to he in the kingdom of God and their minds soared
high in the spiritual world. There
were other plays such as Droupadi
Bastra Haran, Chitrapat, Udhukhon
performed with success during the
period,

We now come to the modern period
of drama in Manipur which began in.
the latter part of the nineteenth century. Numerous improvements in.

