54

MANIPUBI THEATRE

Manipur Dramatic Union ceased to
function in the war time. The enterprising young men took the lead and
they were rendering a great service to
the Manipuri drama as they kept it

establishment of the Manipur Drama—
tic Union in 1931. There were able.
(actors and playwrights in this Union
and their plays were great improvements in many respects. Following
their success there sprang up numerous theatre organisations in the suburbs of the town as well as in the rural
areas. State ofﬁcials and school masters
in general were the pioneers for the
spread of theatre in the rural areas.
There were other play-producing
societies under the name of Aryan
Theatre, Chitrangada NatyaMandir,
Imphal Theatre, Cosmopolitan and
Naba Natya Mandir through which
many good
plays
found their
way to a larger public. We cann‘t
deny that in many respects these societies served the public well. Chitrengada Natya Mandir presented a
remarkable social tragedy, lbemma,
written by H. Anganghal Singh some
time in l 9 36. It is a true bit of Manipuri realism and wonderfully true to

rare competence are the Society Theatre and the Aryan Theatre.
Rupmahal Theatre, another most
organisation was estaimportant
blished in 1943. Distinguished visitors
to Manipur like Dr. Rajendra Prasad,
Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, U. Nu,
Prime Minister of Burma, U. K.

the life it presents.
The period from 1905 to 1942 was
the exact period in which the ﬁrst
Manipuri playwrights Were shaping
their own ideas and the way for development of the Manipuri drama was

ten by S. Krishnamohan Singh repre-

properly paved.
The Second World War had the
social fabric rudely shaken in Mani-

pur ; even then there was enough of
theatre. New theatrical organisations
sprang up as the old ones like the

alive under extremely difﬁcult condi-

tions. Two distinguished groups which
have successfully produced plays with,

Ambassador, Central Ministers, Udai
Shankar and many others witnessed
with pleasure the plays enacted by
Rupmahal, during their short stay at
Imphal.
Rupmahal is well known
for its diversity of taste and talent,
its variety of production and programme. It seeks to foster the local
colour, traditional forms of popular
and literary dramas and dances. The
ﬁrst problem play, 'Mo'muthangal’ writsenting the life of a social worker
staged by Rupmahal is a true bit of
modern problem play. G. C. Tongbra,
distinguished dramatist of the Shavian
school has written a good number of
problem plays. Produced, mostly, by
the Society Theatre.
The most notable achievement for

Rupmahal is their rendering of the

