.56

.

MANIPUEI Truman

decade of nineteenth century.
Of
course, a few Bengalee families set—
tled in Manipur long ago in the early
, eighteenth century in connection with
preaching and spreading the Vaishavism ; but it took much more time for
the wave of theatre to reach Imphal.
The ﬁrst drama played in Manipur
/ was a Bengali drama—Pravas Milan.
It was played in 1902 in the courtyard
of Sree Sree Govindaji’s temple adjacent to the Royal Palace of the then
Maharaja Sir Churachand Singh, K. C.
S.|..C.B.E. who was the chief Patron as
well; It was an introductory and casual show. Actors were all Manipuris,

namely — N. Thanin Singh, Lalgopal
Singh, R. K. Chinglensana, Lalji Shar—
ma, Bihari Singh, Maibam Yaimabi
Singh, Leisram Kulabhidhu Singh and
Chingbam Gopal Singh. The drama
was directed by two persons ; one was
Gopal Singh Selungba and the other
one, a Bengalee—Saratchandra Ghosh.
I have introduced “Pravas Milan”
as the ﬁrst drama played in Manipur.
In this connection I should also mention that, actually “Pagaliui” was pla—
yed some four or ﬁVe years earlier. It
was in Manipuri Language. But I am
not sure if this play should be titled
as wheatre'.

No stage was used for
acting. It was a sketch depicting some

comic sequences.

‘Pagalini’ was writ.-

ten and directed by Bihari Singh,
Headmaster of Pettigrew L P. School
in whose house it was played and

spectetors were a. few neighbours...
Casts were headed by N. Thanin Singh
and K. Chaoba Singh, H. Kanhai
Singh. P. Gopal Singh—students of‘
said L. P. School. According to Mr.
N. Thanin Singh, it was something like
Jatra or Pals-Gan.
Following “Pravas Milan”, a drama-group ' was formed in 1903 with
some of the friends of Bamacharan
Mukherjee.

The group was named as

“Bandhab Natya Samaj’ and was guided by the said Mr. Mukherjee whose
house was the centre of acting, and
“Mevar Patan” was played with actors
R. K. Birchandra Singh, Ch. Mayur-

dhwaja Singha, N. 'I‘hanin Singh etc.
In

1904,

the

name

“Bandhab

Natya Samaj” was replaced by
“Friends Dramatic Union” (though
both the names bear the same mean-'
ing ) and the committee of that Union
constructed a permanent Stage at
Babupara, the ﬁrst stage in Manipur.
That was only a stage without permanant auditorium.
Then a club namely “Victoria
Club” W 8. S formed in l910 with a
sound committee to run the dramatic
activities. At the initiative of this
club a permanant Hall was made with
C. I. Sheets Rooﬁng and the walls
ekra with mud plaster in the year 1917.
Since then, there were regular performances and almost all the famous
Bengali dramas of that time wereplayed.
Both the Manipuris and

