5'?

BEINGiKLI THEATRE IN MANIPUB.

Bengalees took part. This united acting__
in Bengali drama by two separate on-

must for conducting the background"
music. and an opening song was ohll—‘
gun“: ry a’ the beginning ofdrarna. लि-

munities of people having their aw" se.
parate mothmm on ५ ue, was nicely done duhhu an Mnkherjee used to A i iig
that opening; song. and so, he was?
for long since “PraVas Milan” till the
formation of ३ Man ipur Dramatic pnp- larly kni we and called as ‘ OpenUnion” in i 931 . The remarkable ing song”
After a long interval again from 1948, .
period havmg its glorious historv pro- .
an
olher gr: up of actors Wasa-.ative
auced the dramas like ‘Hilwamangal’
‘Pratapaditya’. ‘Kedar va’. ‘Bange' in producing mostly social dramas.»
Bargeeﬂ Chandrasupta’, ‘Savntri Sa~ The popularity of social dramas at
that time was mainly for two reasons.
tyaban’ etc. etc.
_ Even after the creation of "Mani- Firstlv, non—availability of the old'
pur Dramatic U “ion” a few Manipuri

actors did not leaVe the Victoria Club
and this spirit was not broken until
the second wurld war when a heavy
damage was caused to the Theatre
Hall and club. In this period also, the

Victoria Ulub produced a lot of good
dramas with their traditional credit,
which includes “Joydev”,
‘ Sita”,

"PrithW1raja”, Karnarjun”, “Bijoya”
etc. “Joydev” was played for three
consecutive nights on public request
and Binode Bihari Sen Sharma was
honoured with a medal by the Maha-

raja for his excellent role of “Vimala”.
Jaminisundar Guha was in the title
role. Some more talented artists of
that time were N. Thanin Singh, Debendra Singh, Rabindra Purkyastha,

Raj mohan Das, Nripen Dey, Priyakumar Das, Bhabani Ganguli, Phani—
bhusan Mukherjee, Haridas Sen Sharma etc.

At that time music master was a

*ioyal-dre‘sses

which

were

spoilt

during war. Secondlv, the mentality
of drama-loving people was changing ३
and the general public also liked their
own stories to be played on stage /
rather than those Mythological or ३
Historical plays.
Suresh Bardhan, Sunil Mukherjee,

Sukumar Das, Kaliranjan Dev, Benoy "
Dev, Shanti Bikash Dutta, Haran
Chandra Mukherjee, Shasanka Bhu- '
san Mukherjee, Dr. Dey,

Dr. Nath,

are the main actors of that time who '
successfully participated in “Karagar”, है
“Praiulla”, “Father Sheshey”, “Eran Manus”, "Ulka”, “Kshudha” etc. etc.
Since 1959 Victoria Club started
co-acting with the books “Dampatye
Kalahaschaiba” and “Kalpurush”.
Then a series of dramas like - “ShahJahan”, “Sheshraksha”, "Down Train”

“Finger Print” etc. etc. were staged
with success;

There is a ladies’ group, consisting

