Amendment : The provision of nomination of ‘Trustees for life' by
State Government came infor criticism from most of the intellectuals
of the country. What could be the propriety of this provision in an
institution set up by the Government from public funds? The artists,

thinkers and litterateurs from all over the country questioned its
relevance. Earlier, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh had set up a number of
other cultural institutions such as MP. Kala Parishad, Adivasl Lok
Kala Parishad, Madhya Pradesh Sahitya Parishad etc. but none of
these had provided for ”Trustees for life”. This provision smacked of
feudalism.
To ractify this the present Government amended the Bharat Bhavan
Nyas Adhiniyam in December 1990.

The Bharat Bhavan Nyas (Amendment) Adhiniyarn 1990 (MP. Act 25
of (990) besides rescinding the provision of “Trustees for life”, also

provided that the Chief Minister would be the ex-officio Chairman of
the Bharat Bhavan Trust. This was done in keeping with the tradition
already obtaining in Madhya Pradesh with regard to other cultural
bodies. MP. Kala Parishad was set up in 1952, MP. Sahitya
Parishad 1954, Urdu Academy in 1976, Allauddin Khan Sangeet

Academy in 1979, Adivasl Lok Kala Parishad in 1980 and the
Sanskrit Parishad in 1985; in all these institutions Chief Minister is the
ex-officio Chairman. This pattern adopted for Bharat Bhavan is not
only in keeping the prevailing tradition but also a positive step
towards democratisation of the organisation.

Governmental interference : There is a campaign in some
quarters, motivated by vested interest that the provision of Chief
Minister being the ex—officio Chairman of Bharat Bhavan amounts to
governmental interference in this body of artists. If from 1952 to 1985
in the various cultural institutions set-up by the Madhya Pradesh
Government this provision did not constitute governmental
interference; then, how could this provision mean governmental
interference now? Prior to the amendment, if the then Chief Minister’s
being the Chairman of the Bharat Bhavan Trust, as also its ‘Trustee
for life’ did not constitute governmental interference, then how could
amended provision of Chief Minister being the ex-officio Chairman for

५

.v' .

.

४५३१५'

be termed as interference? The propaganda carried out by those

.

the duration of his term. in accordance with the democratic propriety,

