DELHI CHILDREN’S THEATRE
Forty four years ago, the Delhi Children’s Theatre (DCT) made
a small beginning with a few dedicated persons who believed that the
mind of a child was a world of many splendours, which ought to be
given the opportunity to blossom forth into many faceted expression.
Four decades of experience have taught us that we were not wrong,
that our confidence was not rnisconceived.
The 50th year of Independence Is an occasion with special

significance for the nation. That is why the programme for the Annual
Festival of the Delhi Children’s Theatre for this year had adopted
as its theme - the 50th year of independence. For the children
- both for those who perform and those in the audience this is
intended to be a memorable experience which we hope will help
make them better citizens in the future.

Today commences the Annual Festival of the DCT. It is a regular
feature of its activities, consisting of a variety of presentations by the
children for the children. A source of abounding joy for all of them
it is an occasion for shared pride in themselves. it is the Culmination
of the efforts made at the training centres which the DCT runs in
collaboration with educational institutions at several schools. These
centres provide for the children training under the guidance and care
of fully qualified and experienced teachers in theatre, music and dance.
दृ Each child receives individual attention and each gets an opportunity
to appear on the stage at the annual festival. It is no mean satisfaction

for us that many of our trainee attain professional standards in the
fields of acting, dancing, music and so on, and are able to join

professional institutions.

We have the great satisfaction of knowing that we have been
able to open up the minds of the children trained by us to a splendorous
world of imagination, fantasy and togetherness through which they will
become more complete adults with agile, receptive, perceptive and
creative minds. Those who have trained them have the great happiness

of knowing that they have contributed vitally to the emergence of more
wholesome personalities. We cannot and do not rest on our Iaurels;
the children make us aim higher and higher.

