I "I I G CE” I I 'Es ' During the year under review, the DC;‘ I
' '
‘
'
' the following
'
functioned
In
SChOO'S Of Delhi :trammg centres

.0" P

.03 [‘3

1.

Delhi Public School, Mathura Road
Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market
Laxman Public School
Lady I rwin School Defence Colony
Saket Centre

Our experienced Choreographers, Music Director, Tabla accornpanists and
teachers conducted the Training Centres in these schools. The children received
training In dance, drama, music, ballet, theatre, and group singing.

‘ The trainees are charged Rs. 5/- for admission and Rs. 30/- per month as fee
for ten months of the year.
Tan Conveners and two peons, nominated by the heads of the Schools where
our training centres are located, helped in the regular day-to day work of the training
centres and collected fees from the students.
FINANCE : During the year, the DCT received from Sangeet Natak Akaderni

a grant of Rs. 1 5,000. We have appealed to the chairman of the Akaderni to increase
our annual grant to Rs. 20,000/— We also received a special grant of Rs. 40,000
from Dept. of Culture, Ministry of Human Resource Development, for production of

a special item.
The audited statement of income & expenditure and Balance Sheet for the
year 1996-97 prepared by our Chartered AcCountant, M/s Shekhon & Co. gives a
clear picture of our financial position.
ANNUAL FESTIVAL : During the year, the DCT, held a 3 Day Annual Festival
at the Mavalankar Auditorium, Rafi Marg, New Delhi on February 19, 20, 21 1997.

The Festival Show was a great success. Large number of School children and
visitors witnessed the Festival shows. There were two shows daily in the morning
and evening. The rate of tickets were Rs. 10/- for children and Rs. 10/- for adults. A
souvenir was brought out on the occasion.
The DCT training centres and 8 Schools of Delhi took part in the Festival
programme. The Three Day festival consisted of 22 items including plays, ballets
and chorus songs. About 2000 School Children took part in the festival programme.
Our experienced Director, Srnt. Rekha Jain and Choreographers, Shri Harish

Smt.
Verrna Km. Poonarn Verrna, Srnt. Bandana Roy, Srnt. Roma _Bhattacharya,
Mukherjee, Shri
Rita Mukherjee, Ms. Deepika Bose, Srnt. Uttara Dutta, Srnt. Sulata

Ashwad Bhatt, helped in making Festival a success.

