LADY IRWIN SCHOOL - D.C.T. Tr. Centre
PRESENTS

PATRIOTIC SONGS
They were a small group of unarmed people. They landed at
“Sutanoti”, a small remote village with thick jungles, having wild animals
all around by the side of river Hooghly, which is now known all over the
World as Calcutta. Yes, they were the British Banyias. But it was nobody’s
dream that these small group of Banyias can be the ruthless ruler of 33
crores of Indians within a short Span of time. They looted our wealth,
steam-rolled our sentiments, our culture, the very basis of our togetherness
with their in-human barbaric and ruthless oppression and to achieve the
complete control over our innocent people they adopted the policy of

“Divide and Rule”.

But as you know, to every action there has to be an equal and
pposite reaction. The Indians the peace-loving, god-fearing, innocent
Indians repulsed with determination, with “KARENGE YA MARENGE”

logan, Then came the revolt - revolt against the torture, against the
lavery, against the attack on our cultural heritage and on our religious
arrnony. The outcome of this uprising is the unsuccessful yet brave tight
y Nawab ot Sirajadaulla at Plassy, the Sepoy Mutiny in 1857, the armed
evolution by the Indian revolutionaries, the Non-cooperation movement

y the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, the heroic and unbelievable
ight put in by the Azad Hind Fouj under the command of Subhash Chandra
ose, atlectionately called as “Netaji” by every Indians. At the end of this
00 years struggle, the British Raj in whose kingdom, it is said, the sun

nly rises and never sets, has to bow down to the wishes and
eterrnination ol the Indians and they left bag and baggages after freeing

ur mother land from the shackles of slavery and we became the citizen
I Independent India in August, 1947.
What would be more befitting than presenting patriotic songs by the

ittle children of Lady Irwin School when the whole nation is celebrating
the
he 50th Years of our independence. Though they have not seen

ruggles on their own eyes, they need to be made aware of the sacrilices
ade by their tore-Iathers to bring the independence so that they can born
you :
n freedom and live in freedom. The children will now present to

'

