U5 HA GANG U Ll

ANTAR YAT RA

Ra n g a ka rm ee , Ko l kato

( in dialogue with my characters )
Language : Hindi & Bengali

Trained as a dancer in
Bharatanatyam, she brings to
her work in theatre as director
and actress choreographic
and physical skills that are
enriched by her scholarly and
literary sensibilities and insight
as evident in works like

Duration :

50 min.

On 14 January,2008

At Academy Of Fine Arts 6p. m.
It‘s a collage ot acts—in which the exponent Usha Eartguli uses all 3 mediums of theatrical expression that is acting,
dance and music. The play which is in the narrative mode showcases the women characters she has created and have
been drawn on Gorky, Ibsen, Wesker, Kroetz, Brecht, Franco Rame, Dario Fo, Rabindra Nath Tagore, contemporary

Mahabhoi, Lok Katha, Holi,

playwrights like lVlahesh Elkunchwar, Ratnakar lvlatkari, Mannu Bhandari, Mahasweta Devi and Shatat Khan and
above everything else, on the state ot women in India at the ditterent classes. As she plays out some at these roles
Demonstrates her negotiations with a rich and complex reality through the idiom ot peitormance. Trained as a dancer

Court Martial, Rudali, Himmat

in the classical Indian modes, she has the skills to find

Mai,

the delicate balance between tormal rhythm and reality and thus creates a powertul and haunting
portrayal hailed by critics as one at the best in its genre.

Mukti,

Shobhayatra,

Kashinama and her latest
trilogyl Badnam Manta,
Sarhad paar Manta and
Manto aur Manta) W O V e n
around the lite and works at
SaadatHasanManto. तो
Her achievements in and
contribution to Indian theatre
have been recognized in the
torm at numerous awards ,

including the prestigious
Sangeet Natak Akademi
Awardll998),

and

several

awards trom the West Bengal
and Uttar Pradesh State
Akademies. She is at present
member ot the Executive
Committee at the Central
Sangeet Natak Akademi, the
West Bengal State Natya
Akar:erni, and the society at
the National School ot
Drair a.

Set Designed by Khaled Choudhury
Light Designed by Tapas Sen
Designed, Directed &
Pertormed by Usha Ganguli

