SHRI RAM CENTRE ACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally known
as the Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural
scene. A leading cultural organization, its objective is to nurture and develop
talent in the performing arts and its programmes are organised towards this
end.
Theatre Repertory :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading
companies of the country. The repertoire of oustanding plays performed by

the repertory including Sakharam Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya Woh Janmai
:Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda have contributed significantly to Hindustani
drama in the country. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, the Reperotry
also stages sponsored shows in other parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern
plays in various styles and forms under the direction of such eminent theatre

directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V._,Karanth, Rajendranath, B. M. Shah, Bansi
Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has performed 59 Hindi plays since its
inception.

Acting Course :

To encourage young amateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programme. The 1 st year is devoted
to in-depth study an all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic
theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on Indian-classical,

experimental, Westrern and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a

professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future. Students
who cemplete the course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory or join the National School of Drama or the Media.
Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures :

The Shri Ram Memorial lectures held annually since 1986 are aimed at
presenting and documenting the life-time achievements of theatre luminaries
of the century. The three days lecture sessions delivered earlier by such
famous theatre personalities as Utpal Dutt, Habib Tanvir, Badal Sircar,

Nemichand Jain, Vijay Tendulkar etc. have been published by us for theatre
posterity.

Children Theatre Workshop :

The SRC Childrenna Theatre Workshop is one-month production oriented
workshop conducted during Summer vacation every year under the guidance
of a renewed Camp director. This feature is aimed to impart theatrical values
to children and to improve their communication skills.

