About the Writer
BEGUM QUDSIA ZAIDI
Begum Qudsia Zaidi, writer, social worker and theatre
practitioner, is best remembered for her pioneering
role in establishing the Hindustani Theatre in Delhi in

M S Sathyu, Yunus Parwaiz, lrshad Panjatan, Monica
Mishra, ShyamArora, ShivSharma among others.

the 19508.

Begum Zaidi translated / adapted over 20 plays
including Kalidas' Shakuntala, Shudrak's Mrichhkattik

Qudsia Zaidi, of Kashmiri origin belonged to a family
settled in Lahore. She was born in Delhi where her
father Khan Bahadur Abdullah Saheb was a police
officer. Her parents died when she was quite young,

as Mitti' Ki Gaadi, Vishakhadatta's Mudrarakshas, lbsen's
'Doll's House' as Gudiya Ghar and 'Master Builder' as
Mahashilpkar, Brecht's ‘Caucasian Chalk Circle' as Sufaid

Kundali, Shaw's Pygmalion as Azar Ka Khwab and the

and she was brought up in Lahore in the home of her

comedy Khalid Ki Kha/a from Brandon Thomas'

elder sister. Her brother—in—law Ahmed Shah Bokhari
"Patras" (well known Urdu writer and theatre

Charlie's Aunt. She also adapted Dumas' Camille as

enthusiast) had a great influence on shaping her

Jaanhaar and re—wrote Anarka/i, originally written by
lmtiaz Ali Taj. She also translated Mirza Sahiban,

outlook towards literature and theatre. Begum Zaidi
studied in Lahore and then after marriage she moved

Balwant Gargi's Punjabi play. Aamrapali was one of
her first original plays.

to the princely state of Rampur. Later she shifted to
In the Hindi—Urdu speaking areas she is well known

Delhi in 1950, and became actively involved with
for her writings for children, including the ever

Shankar's Weekly Children's Art Competition and the
popular plays based on the stories of Uncle Podger by

Book Trust. In Rampur she had written and translated
Jerome K Jerome as Chacha Chakkan, Gandhi Baba Ki

a number of books for children and this interest was to
continue all her life.

Kahani (an Urdu biography of Gandhi for children),
La mere chane ka daana (an original play) and short

in 1954 Begum Zaidi along with Habib Tanvir

Story Gu/abo Mausi Aur Gubbare.

established the Hindustani Theatre. Started as an
Her other writings include Pandrah tore (translation
amateur group, in ] 958 it went on to become one of
the first urban professional theatre companies of

of a Chinese classical opera 15 Strings of Cash) and
15 books for children.

independent India. Its debut production was a
Hindustani version of Kalidas's Shakunta/a and this
was followed by Shudraka's Mrichakatika as Mitti Ki

She continued to sustain the Hindustani Theatre
producing, writing and translating plays till her

Gadi. The Hindustani Theatre was instrumental in

untimely death on 27 December, 1960.

creating theatre practitioners like Habib Tanvir,

