क्याa?!. दृ , दृ. f

National School of Drama
टु REPERTORY COMPANY

National School of Drama Repertory was formed by Sh. E. Alkazi
on an experimental basis in 3964. Initially it consisted of only four
Actors and was later expanded to include a large group of Actors,
Musicians and Technicians, drawn mainly from amongst the
Graduates of the School.
Over the years Repertory has produced a variety of plays ranging
from stylized musical to Realistic and contemporary adaptation of
foreign and Indian play. In addition, several eminent Directors of
National and International repute from within the country and
abroad have worked with the Company.
The Repertory has performed over 180 plays by 90 playwrights
and has worked with 90 directors. Quite a few of the Actors of
the company have emerged as celebrities in Theatre, Cinema and
Television in India. The Repertory tours extensively all over the
Country and has made several successful, trips to Germany, Poland,
UK, Nepal, Mauritius, Bangladesh and China.
In I 993, the Company organized a major Festival of Mohan Rakesh's
plays to mark his 20th death anniversary. In ]99] on the occasion
ofthe Company's Silver Jubilee, Rang Yatra an exhibition consisting
its Photographs, Set—Models, Costumes, Properties and Poster etc
was also put up.
August 22, 201 3 was Repertory Company's 50th foundation day and

Golden Jubilee Celebrations were kick started on this day. The
second important event of Company's Golden Jubilee Celebrations
was held from March 22 to 24, 2014, where all the ex—repertory
company members were invited. On this occasion scenes and songs

from memorable production of the-past were presented to the
audience, it was a nostalgic evening for many people.
Business Manager
DeepakWadhwa

Box Office
Sita Ram Yadav

Production Co-ordinator

Dliarafi‘l/ee'

Abdul Kadir Shah
.
.
.
Technical Co—ordinator (Lights)
Govind Sing h Yadav
Music In charge
Om Prakash

PrIthvr Singh Negi
DeepikaSinha
Repertory Chief
Suresh Sharma
Director NSD

Costume In charge

Prof. Wa ma n Kend re

C. S . B hat i a
Sound technician
R. S. Gosa i n

_

