Gandhari, the queen mother with her selfimposed blind-

I am grateful to the Department of Art, Culture and Lan-

ness, the elderly king Dhritarashtra and several other characters are either willing or unwilling participants. But there
is Sanjay, who with his divine vision sees everything happening at the war front and he reports everything to a blind

guages, Government of Delhi, and Sahitya Kala Parishad,

Delhi, for affording me an opportunty to stage the play on
a rather grand scale at the Kotla Ferozeshah, a historic
place .

court.

I should also like to underscore that this venue adds to
Sanjay is not a participant, nor is he a mere observer. He is
a witness. Witness to history. Andha Yug offers him this
key role which we today would expect of our creative
artists, philosophers and commentators. To record and convey the truth, howsoever unpalatable, for all of us and our
posterity.
With a few sequential reordering and without any alterations in the original text, I have tried to enact Andha Yug
on a different note. We do not yet see the light at the end of
the tunnel. And yet, we can not discount the inherent creativity, ingenuity and resilience of our humankind throughout history. Hurnanity has faced and overcome
catastrophes, cataclysms and devastations.

So would we, again. The flickering lamps in the hands of
the entire cast, before the curtain is finally drawn, symbolize that “hope against hope”.

We do not yet see the light at the end of the tunnel. And
yet, we can not discount the inherent creativity, ingenuity
and resilience of our humankind throughout history.

Humanity has faced and overcome catastrophes,
cataclysms and devastations.
So would we, again.

Bhanu Bh art i

l हैं

THE SAGA OF LIGHT IN DARKNESS

one’s theatrical experience. As we enter the ruins, we enter

into a different time and space leaving our metropolitan
hustle and bustle behind us. This is the kind of distancing
that we need to appreciate and absorb the import of a tragic
recurrent theme in world history. The author, Dhararnvir
Bharati, also had chosen the distant or mythical past in
order to gain a perspective on a contemporary dilemma.
I am most grateful to Mrs. Sheila Dikshit, whose continu-

ous encouragement and constant support has always inspired me.

I dedicate this production of AndhaYUg to my esteemed
teacher, Mr. Ebrahirn Alkazi, who about fifty years back introduced this play to Delhi in the same environs.

