The Synopsis
ACT ONE
The Kaurava Kingdom
The chorus laments the destruction of moral codes. Both
sides are losers. Blindness wins. On the last evening of the
war, two guards brood over their meaningless exertions
and devotion to a rotten system. Appearance of vultures

frightens them. Chorus describes the scene. Awaits the
news. Sagacious Vidura reminds his frightened half—
brother Dhritarashtra that he has been forewarned of his
errors in judgement. But he has paid no heed.
The discussion between them and Gandhari revolves
around their remorse and sorrow over the death of their
sons. The role of Krishna evokes animosity within Gandhari. The old mendicant recalls his own rosy but false predictions about Duryodhana. Gandhari is hopeful of
Duryodhana’s survival and rewards the mendicant with
money. The two guards expound on the rneaninglessness
of their roles and existence.

ACT TWO
Arising of the Beast
Sanjaya’s dilemma and regret over his immortality. Kritavarma, a surviving warrior king asks Sanjaya to describe
Duryodhana’s humiliating defeat to the king. Kripacharya,
another survivor says Ashwatthama witnessed Duryodhana’s humiliation and smashed his bows.

lived on. He tells the parents that their son Duryodhana is
hidden within a pond.
The old mendicant reappears. Ashwattharna enters, sees
his abandoned bow. Berates the old mendicant for his false
prediction. Attacks and kills the mendicant. disregarding
his wise words. Kritavarma and Kripacharya are aghast at
his beastliness. Yet they both console him. The unjust murder of Abhimanyu —the son of Arjuna — is mentioned.
ACT 3
The HalfTruth ofAshwatthama

Ashwatthama recalls the dreadful murder of his father after
Yudhisthira’s muttered half-truth: ‘Ashwatthama is dead.

The man or the elephant”. With this half truth he turns into
a beast. All tenderness and goodness in him is killed for
ever. He is determined now to ‘Kill, Kill. Killl’.

Ashwatthama in blind rage attacks even Sanjaya. Kritavarma and Kripacharya try to dissuade him. Sanjaya
would have preferred to be finished off rather than have

The chorus, next morning, watches the defeated. maimed
army returning to Hastinapur, the capital of the Kauravas.
Dhritarashtra says he has now felt and ‘seen‘ the war by
touching the wounded soldiers. Shows sympathy for the
mute soldier who is groaning aloud.
The only surviving Kaurava son Yuyutsu appears. Rumours
in the city portray him as a sorcerer who eats up the kids.

AN D HAY U G

29

