Synopsis of Anna Anna Bhagya

Based on a Kazakh folk tale, Apna Apna Bhagya is the story of a
lazy man named Qadir, who cannot ﬁgure out why his brother Ivan is
prospering everyday, while his own life is deteriorating. His brother tells
him that it is so because, perhaps, his Bhagya works very hard for him.
while Qadir‘s Bhagya is sleeping somewhere under the shade of a big tree.
Stupid that he is, Qadir sets out in search of his Bhagya so that he can wake
'111111३ up and ask him to start working.

On the way, he meets various characters, viz a Lion who cant get rid
of his continuous stomach-ache; a family of peasants who are on the verge
of death because in spite of all the hard-work, their ﬁelds don’t yield a crop;
and finally a King, who in spite of all the riches at his disposal, is not
happy. When Qadir tells each one of them that he is on his way to meet the
Bhagya. they request him to ask him to give a solution to their problems.
Qadir promises, and moves on.
Finally Qadir does meet his Bhagya, who assures him of a bright
future ahead. provided he does not miss the opportunity. The Bhagya also
tells Qadir the solution to the problems of the people he had met on the
way, i .e. the King, the Peasant and the Lion.

On the way back Qadir meets the King and tells him that the King18
actually a girl and it is difficult for him to keep this secret that 8 why he
is upset. and if he could muste1 the courage to reveal the secret, marry
someone and get rid of all troubles of running the Kingdom and live
happilv The King reveals his true self — a beautiful young lady and offers
to marry Qadir. Qadir 15 battled at her beauty and the prospects of
becoming a king but refuses because he thinks it involves lots of hard work
and risk of life at the hands of warring neighbors and moves on.
Next he meets the peasant family and tells that their woes will be
over if they dig out 40 vessels of gold buried in their ﬁeld by a Rich
Merchant about 200 years ago. The peasant family requests Qadir to help
them dig out the gold and share the booty and also offer their daughter‘s
hand in marriage to him but Qadi1 refuses thinking that he may die 01 ha1d

uork by digging their held and leax e
"प्ताटीध्वनेश दोंन्हदृच्चा @11de हुं। 51३1

