8

PARVA’I‘IYA KALA KENDRA AND INDIAN THEATRE

During the last nine years, ever since we started working on folk ballads, the
n
Kendra has been enlarging the scope of Indian Theatre by adding a new dimensio
ies
to it—the dimension of Opera. Its main contribution lies in exploring the possibilit
of ballads, which are an imaginative mix of history legded and myth, created and
composed and nurtured by the variour communities spread ever the length and bredth
of our country. In a way they are oral documents containing reactions as also cornments of the common man on the various twists and turns of human history.

We also strongly feel the need of developing an operatic theatre as distinct from
the musical one, especially in the Hindi heartland. If we glance around we will ﬁnd

that all the folk & traditional theatrical forms prevalent in the North are operatic
in nature, song-oriented rather than movement oriented, as they are in the South.
This feature should be given its due place in considering the future course of Indian
theatre. We feel, the Parvatiya Kala Kendra can take legitimate pride in its contribution to the enrichment of this particular stream of Indian Theatre.

MUSIC OF BHANA GANGNATH
We have made a departure in composing music for this f'olk opera. In the previous productions like Rajula-Malushahi, Ajuwa-Baf’aul, Jeetu Bagdwal, Rasik
Ramola and others, we had kept ourselves conﬁned to the meledies and rhythms
,
that existed in the folk music of Kurnaon and Garhwal. But in Bhana-Gangnath

we have made a novel experiment of keeping the folk tunes of the region in the
chorus, but in the narrative portions for the dramatic dialogues, we have drawn

freely from the repertoire of the musical structure of the North-Indian styles. We
leave it to the viewers to judge whether this approach has succeeded or not. This

we have also done keeping in View our future plans for a wider reach, and propose
to present this production in Hindi, for which the classical and semi-classical
melodies would prove to be easier to handle and perhaps more effective too. We
are not trying to lay down any speciﬁc guidelines for music-making in future. This

is just an idea which owes its origin to the organic interconnections, and to the interdependence of our musical forms and structures.
M OHAN UPR ETI

