l0

would be rewarded ten gold coins, but if the rock was not removed, the entire town

would be ﬁned. All try, ﬁrst one-by-one. and later collectively, b11t fall- At that
by
Everyone 18 taken
movent, Gangnath arrives. He removes the rock with ease.
surprise by this feat.
Episode—IV

him to stay there for
The king comes for worship. He praise Gangnath and requests
to participate in
sometime and preach. He also invites him to his palace. All come
restive, as Bhana, for
the religious festivity kirtan and leave. But Gangnath gets
close friend Gopi also
whom he has come, does not turn up. Meanwhile Bhana’s

in reading palms
comes .to participate in the kirtan. Gangnath keeps himself busy
and horoscopes. waiting all the time‘ for Bhana.
Episode—V
a child to look
Bhana resides out of the town boundaries as an outcaste. She has

after. Gopi tells Bhana about the rnendicant giving full description of his accomplishment. Bhana gets suspicious and tells Gopi about Gangnath and her ﬁrst meeting
with him.
Episode—VI

(FLASH-BACK): Bhana, the daughter of Diwan, who is a widow visits the Nandadevi
fair and falls in love with Gangnath, the prince of Doti. She conceives from him.
Her parents and the entire community torture her, and ﬁnally ex-communicate her,

throwing her out of the village, where she stays waiting for Gangnath.

IN'I‘ERMISSION
Episode—VII

Gangnath is busy with his kirtan, when Diwan visits him. He shows his palm to him.
While Gangnath reads his palm, the Diwan immediately realises his folly as many a
turth about his life and character would be disclosed. He withdraws his hand and

leaves the place. Everyone is puzzled by his behaviour. Gangnath keeps himself busy
with his routine.
Episode—VIII
The two traders, who had seen Gangnath’s feat at the Devidhura forest, reach Alrnora.
Near the Bhairabhath temple they are attracted by the singing which is going on

there. They recognise Gangnath and decide to tell the Diwan about him and his m is85011.“) take Bhana away. They also express their opinion that Gangnath may be a
foreign spy in the garb of a mend icant.
Episode—IX

Jasodhar and Bhagirath inform Diwan about the real personality of Gangnath and
his miss10n. Diwan, a shrewd character hatches a conspiracy to do away with him
and shares his plans with his trusted lieutenants Narotam, Baladutt Sheruwa and
Bhimuwa.
,

