MAGIC STI C K
Once upon a time there was a girl. She used to go school everyday. Once when
she was going to school she met an old woman. She could not cross the road. The
girl
held the old woman's hand 8 helped her to cross the road with her. When both were
walking old woman asked her where do you live. She said “I live in Seni street. The old
woman took her to her home.
When both of them entered house the old woman said
“you helped me in crossing the road and I shall give you a magic stick, If you rotate it
three times anything you want will happen. But don't use it for wrong things. The girl
said" OK.

I am going to play.

She put the stick under the tree and started playing.

Her

friend Rita stole the stick and went away. She rotated it and said" Sun come down to the
earth.

Sun started coming down and Rita felt very hot and

she started crying.

The girl

heard the cries. She ran and saw that Rita was crying. The crying Rita told her the whole
The girl said, “Sun go away please." Rita stopped crying. The girl said “Don't steal
anything in future Stealing is a bad habit. In case you wanted this stick, you should
have asked me and in future don't make wrong use of anything.
Moral :- Stealing is a bad habit.

NEHA JAIN
ll - B

Story
Once Upon a time there was a girl

Ghost
She was always afraid of darkness.

Every

night she saw the dreams of ghost. One night she saw a very terrible dream. The
dream was One night she was sleeping. It was raining very heavily. The time was
l'o Clock. After some time there was a knock at the door. Slowly, slowly when
she opened the door there was no one, then she shut the door and came to her bed
and slept. Like this four times someone knocked at the door and when she opened
the door no one was there. Then sixth time when she opened the door she went out and
saw a woman in black sari with red eyes. Seeing this she shouted as loudly as she
could. When her mother heard her daughter shouting she asked her why was she
shouting. She told her mother the dream she had seen. Her mother told her that
there is no thing like ghost in this world. She told her don't be so frightened. After
this she was not afraid of darkness or ghosts. She does not see dreams of ghost
any more now.

And from that day she lives happily in her house.

R AS H I JA lN
V-B

