TA L E N T E D T H EAT R l ST
Lord Ganesh the lord of success has not restricted
his blessings only upon the privileged ones. Lord showers its blessing on any one who work hard and has clear
Preciption of the results for which he or she is striving.
Sanjay Kapil is one among those who feel that they
can do and do it. He has worked hard both as an actor
and as well as director and lord of suCcess has been very
kind on him.
Kapil started his career as a stage artist with Nat—
rang in 1993 when Natrang staged ‘Chouraha’ a decade

has passed since then from an actor Kapil has worked
hard to become a director as well as a mature actor.
While he was in Natrang he played some key roles in
plays ‘Mahabhoj Baba Jitto and Poster"

In 1986 Kapil went to Meerut (UP) and opened a
branch of Natrang there. In 1987 Natrang Meerut participated in Akhil Bharatiya Samaroh which was held in
Rarnpur. kapil got the best director award and his play
was adjudged as best play of the festival.
In 1987 Up Sangeet Natak Academy organised
Rajya Natya Samaroh in this festival the eﬁbrts of Kapil
for developing the theatrical activities in Meerut were
apreciated .
Working in theatre from last ten years Kapil. is
satisﬁed with his performances so far but at the same
time he is very anaxious to do more. “I think my next
performance will help me to implement my imaginations” Kapil opines about himself.

About the future of theatre in Jammu and Kashmir
he feels that lot has been done but a lot remains to be
undone “The future of the stae depends upon how
many new and innovative themes are introduced & also
depends how much hard Wark the theatrists of the state
put in Kapil adds. It may look strange but it is ture that
Kapil has no ideal director but at the same time Kapil
will like to work with Probir Guha, Kapil of the opinion that he will mature up as an actor however a director is living inside him which is growing pretty fast.
About the style f'orm of play Kapil likes realistic as well
as symbolic theature. He is however tilted towards realistic theatre. On being asked whether one can earn
livelyhood from theatre. Only ray of hope for earning
is the government However of late govt. is only Sponsoring a few directors.
Sanjay‘Kapil is not satisﬁed with the theatre environment he feels that ﬁnancial strains are mainly resp- 7

onsible for this distress among the theatrits.
Recently Kapil directed a play Desh Ke Liye in
Jammu which was well received by audience repect

the imaginations of Kapil will depend entirely how
much powerful themes Kapil will project and how attractively he will present these themes.

Manoj Sheeri
Daily Excelecior Oct. 15, 1993

