MAGICAL MOVEMENTS

He moves like a dream whether he plays Hanuman or Bharatha. HEMA VIIJAV talks
to ‘bharatanatyam’ and ‘kathakali artiste Hari Padman who lives & breathes dance
ए

,"
“r, 1/
\/
'

es, kat/ztlka/i is a difficult art
form, but that‘s wheredancers'
enjoyment of their art lies,“
Hari Padman, star blzararav
natyam and kat/zakalz’ dancer,
says with a smile. We meet at the beautiful Koothambalam — Kalakshetra‘s auditorium — where practice sessions are

on for Kalakshetra‘s annual katlzakalz‘
festival. This year, the theme is ‘Blzrzua

B/mvanam Vyw‘dhya'. In fact, this year,
Hari‘s sonwill also be performing, taking
on the mantle of Prahlada. As the proud
father watches on, the toddler dances

sweetly, doing all the whirls and swirls
that kat/zalca/i is known for. “He is not
into regular training, as I don‘t want to
push him into dance. He is only practis—
ing for this particular performance. But
I think he has the rhythm for it,” says
Hari .
Curiously, the world has come to see
this slightly built, 'soft-spoken dancer
as awe—inspiring Hanuman, who epitomises might. devotion, valour, righteousness and so many other rams, from
his excellent portrayal of the deity in
Rukmini Devi Arundale’s iconic
dance drama Ramayanam.
“Everyone’s conception of
Hanurnan is of someone
huge and mighty, but
atlmfs (Rukmini Devi
Arundale’s) vision of
Hanuman went beyond might. When I
was chosen to play

beyond strength. It is a subtle moment,
and in that moment, I, as a performer,

touch Maui/ca Uinaya and come back,"
he muses.
That particular scene is a treat to take

in. So is the whole of Rukmini Devi‘s Ramuyanam, for that matter. “At/mi was
obviously extremely creative. It is not just
at/zat'though. Her entire team was so creative. Which is why her choreography of
Ramayanam has come out so well,” he
reflects.
Hari is now known to be among the
ﬁnest dancer-choreographers of

SO M ETIMES,
DURING A
PERFORMANCE,
YOU ARE
FLOWN TO A
DIFFERENT
REALM FOR A
FRACTION OF A
SECOND; YOU
TOUCH IT AND
COME BACK."

Changing times

Hanurnan, it was like

Essence of art
It is the audience that typecasts him as Hanuman, Hari
observes wryly, addingthat
he enjoys playing the characters. “I feel these roles
are gifts that Kalakshetra gaveme. It is not

(:3;r

course, some charac—

ters stay on with you r ,5»
more than others,
striking a chord," he muses.
Like portraying Bharata this year.
He says, “It takes a lot of bfmva
and a lot of energy to playBharata. My father couldn’t watch me
play Bharata as he was hospitalised. And I lost my father last
December. It has left a deep emo~
tional scar, and now, playing Bharata takes me close to him,” the artiste
explains.

So, do all these mighty characters
that he plays stay on in him, leaving
a residue? “Sometimes, during a
performance, you are flown to a dif-

institution is to keep this essence alive
and undiluted, and pass it on to the next

ferent realm for a fraction of a second;

you touch itand come back. It can't be
explained too well, it has to be experienced. It is raw, after all," he shares. And
some moments bring out a revelation.
For instance, on finding Seeta in Lanka,
Hanuman is overjoyed and offers to lift
the entire Lanka and fly with her to
Rama. But Seeta wishes Rama to come
and rescue her and establish dim/711a.
“Han uman understands then that might
is not everything, and there is something

porates bharatanatyam, mo/zz'm'attanz,

odissiand katfzakali, and has come tocarry
a charm of its 'own. In his Ramayanam,
set to Swati 'I'irunal’s ‘Bhaavayaamz'Rag/zu
Ramam’, Hari gives all his eight dancers
the challenge and the opportunity to be
seenas Rama, and all of them go through
many characters. This ended up being a
treat and a challenge at thesame time for
the dancers andthe audience alike, as they
get to read the character from the abhinaya and the mm of the dancer, rather
than from his or her costume.

Hari also prefers not to comment on the
classical but free—ﬂowing dance form of
artistes including Padmini Chettur,
Preethi Athreya or Jayachandra, saying,
“It is their creative work”. Bharatanatyam has transitioned from temples
to auditoriums, and from myth to modern
Stories. Who knows what the future will
bring, he questions.
Hari himself has been part of crosscultural collaborations, having been the
dance choreographer for Ethno Techno
project, with live sitar music, Swedish
classical music andrecorded mridangam
tracks. “We did about 20 shows over two
years in Sweden and Denmark. I wish I
_ had continued with it at least in a limited
‘ capacity.”
Dance runs in Hari’s blood, so to say.
His father Padmanabha Pillai had been
running a dance companyin Kollam, Kerala, that exposed young Hari notjust to
dance and choreography, but also makeup, lighting, stage props and all other aspects of dance. Pillai had incidentally
produced 25 ballets based on blzaratanatyam, moln'm'attam andkatfzakali traditions. And of course, Pillai and his wife,
dancer Vasantha, trained their son in
dance, and Hari’s ﬁrst performance was
at the age of ﬁve. Later, Han' trained underhis aunt ‘Kalamandalam’ Kamala, and
thereafter, completed the diploma and
post—diploma course at Kalakshetra, besides aMaster’s and Bachelor's degree in
fine arts in b/Iaratanatyam from
Bharathidasan University, 'I'iruchirappal1i, Tamil Nadu.
“It was my father’s dream to send me
to Kalakshetra, and now, here I 11111, says
an emotional Hari. He considers that
the challenge and the holy obligation for
the current crop of dancersof this famed

being entrusted with a big responsibil—
ity. I don‘t know how far I succeeded in
fulﬁlling that — nobodycan judge their
own performance. But the feedback
from mygurus has been good," he says.
Balagopalan, who had portrayed
Hanuman in Ramayanam earlier on,
was the one who trained Hari to
essay the character.

talent that got these
roles for me. Of

b/mmtanatyam and kat/zakali. Hari reck—
ons that his experience of katlzakalz‘ has
helped him feel and understand the depth
of the characters portrayed, whether it is
Hanurnan or Rama or Vali or any other
character. In some of his own choreographies, Hari consciously tries not to mix
the two.
“But sometimes unconsciously, elements of either do creep into each other,"
he concedes. And sometimes, the mixing
is intentional. For instance, Hari’s own
choreography of the Ramayanam incor-

R0 LE PLAY ‘ Bha ratanatya m'

and ‘kathakali' exponent Hari

generation. He points out, “Miami and
laya cannot be stored in books. It is a
tradition and a knowledge that has to
be transmitted from person to person,
like how the Vedas once were. It is a living legacy.”
Next on the anvil is a production on
Saraswati as a river and as a goddess,
“Imagine. Saraswati had once flowed
through Rajasthan and Haryana, makin
g
these places lush like Kerala. Now
these
regions are arid. Saraswati is all the
more
relevant now, don't you think?" he asks
adding that a dancer has to not just
ob:
serve, but be onewith nature.

