NOTE ON CARLO GOLDONI AND THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS
Each year YATRIK endeavours to include at least one classic in its repertoire of plays
for the season. The choice this year has been fortuitous. Madame Arnelita Stacy
who has been involved in the professional theater for many years in Rome, oﬁered
to direct for YATRIK this production of THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS.
The play calls for a stylized production.

CARLO GOLDONI (1707-1793) reigned for many years as the towering genius of ltalian drama.
The years 1748-53 saw Goldoni at the height of his fame, beloved by all Venice, from doge to

gondolier.

Among the plays

produced then

were

lL BUGlARDO (THE LIAR) and LA

BOTTEGA DEL CAFFE (THE COFFEE HOUSE) and Goldoni’s masterpiece, LA LOCANDIERA

(THE INNKEEPER) - a picture of feminine coquetry which later delighted audiences all over
EurOpe, Russia and America, particularly when the heroine was played by that very famous
actress, Eleonora Duse.
Goldoni was a conscious reformer, anxious to purify ltalian comedy, in much the same way
as Addison and Steele had done in England. He aimed at restoring a fully scripted drama,
one in which the slapstick and bawdy element would be drastically reduced, but his keen

sense of , theater saved him from too

rigorous a suppression of ‘lazzi’ (gags).

We can

admire the forcefulness of his stagecraft, the accuracy with which he gauges the tolerable
length of each stretch of dialogue. He has pace of a highly professional kind. His middleclass and working-class characters are his best. His language and vocabulary is tremendously rich and versatile, passing from the vernacular to courtly protocol. He has been called
the Italian Moliere for he excels in the comedy of manners or' ambiente’.

This particular play, THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS, was finally written in 1745 at
Pisa after Goldoni had earlier sketched the outline for the Commedianti. indeed Antonio
Sacchi in ad libbing Truﬁaldino gave him many points for the final script. Goldoni himself
has written of the character of Truffaldino “I have designed it especially for him and he himself has given me the proposed argument-the external Truﬁaldino, (the rascal)". It must
be remembered that the Commedianti were extremely talented and consummate actors to
whom improvisation come as naturally as writing.

The Italian Commedia dell’ arte tradition many be traced to the sixteenth century and its
distinctive style is apparent over the centuries; and even today we can see its essence in such

famous people as, (to quote a few) the Marx Brothers, Charlie Chaplin, Toto, Jacques Tati
Buster Keaton. Fer what appears effortless in the style of these great comedIans to the

untrained eye of the casual observer, is really the fruit of termendous hard work, passionate
love for the theatre and utter dedication to their art.

When Pulcinella (Punch) is about to

die his last dramatic act on his deathbed is to hand his mask to the most deserving actor,
thus continuing the age-old tradition of the theatre.

