The History

YAVANIKA was established in the year 1967 by a few enthusiastic and
dedicated theatre workers. It had a few graduates from the National School of
Drama also, who are still participating in the plays produced by YAVANIKA. Two
of them are now on very high posts in the ﬁelds of drarnatics. They are Sh. Verinder
Sharma (Producer Drama, Bombay T.V.) and Sh. Govind Gupta (Manager, Song
and Drama Division, Bhubneshwar). Dinesh Thakur and Namit ‘Kapoor, now well
established Film actors, also acted in plays produced by YAVANIKA. YAVANIKA
will always remain grateful to them for their adherence to this lesser known theatre

group of the capital.
YAVANlKA has nothing much to boast about. Twelve plays in nine years,
with off course a Golden Jubilee play ‘Khalid Ki Khala’. After a smooth working of
ﬁve years, YAVANIKA was forced to ‘sleep‘ for about three years reasons beingtransfers and scattering of its workers. And to a large extent the ﬁnancial set—backs
it suffered. Hindi Thestre is still strugllirg hard to achieve some ﬁnancial stability.
Advertisers won't advertise. The audience won' t buy tickets. (They will come flocking.

in if you issue complimentaries).
Well ! amidst this critical situation YAVANIKA produced ’Pehla Raja’, a
play by Sh. Jagdish Chandra Mathur. 'Pehla Raja', which is one of the most powerful
plays written in Hindi, infused new energy in YAVANlKA and with this renewed
८ ,
strength YAVANIKA forged ahead.
Institutions like Lal Bahadur Shastri Academy of Administration, Mussoorie.
invited YAVANlKA to perform before l.A.S. trainees.
The result of this new life is before you.
YAVANIKA is indebted to Sh. Mano] Bhatnagar. its General Secretary, for
his untiring struggle for the existence of this group started with the aim of propagating
healthy theatre in the capital. YAVANIKA is also grateful to all Its new members who
are striving hard to give heights to YAVANIKA in the multi-rnountaneous terrain of
theatre graups in the capital.
KANKAAL the ﬁrst ever horror play in
people.
and
Press

Hindi was highly acclaimed by the

YAVANIKA’s
the common.

Bhagwan

latest glay

Mukadma

Par is a departure from

We assure our patrons that YAVANIKA has many more ventures in store for
them.

-~

Just wait and see.

L A K S H M I N AR A I N L AL
(Pr eside n t)

