क्व

.

The politics
of revival

‘Every director

deserves a room '
Why Marathi theatre isn’t excited about the
resurrection of Pula Deshpande's Tee Phuli‘ani
hlgll't’nt‘lg)‘ signature role oi Bhakti

[.7,

SCAN

.

Pu“. been alive! he

ट्वेंड्डे'ड्डेद्ध"दृइनुट्वें'ङ्कट्सइहँड्डहंईहंड्डेऊँ'हैनुनुड्डे'दृनु'दृट्सड्डदृहंड्ड ्डदृहृ'द्धद्भ woman-ave
ट्वेंड्डेहड्ड'द्गहृह्यनुझनुद्धहुँट्वेड्डेदृनुदृद्रद्रहंड़'नुड्डद्गड्डठेध्दछंहेहं९८: granted us that
(1)5163:11:.::7.:...;.::1.1:.:.:.::,

Surnedha
Rai kar' Mliatre

duo

Leena

and Rahul

.1

८

CITY

1975, when Indian National Theatre's
production Tee Phulrarii opened to
an 8007plus audience at Mumbai‘s
Ranridra Natya Mandir. playwrightdirecror Purushottairi Lakshman
Deshparide (Pulai did not smile. He
was expecting more क्वे a ‘houseful'
sign at the booking counter. It was
the least he expected for a play
whose cultural rendering (frorri
Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion which in
fluericed the Gujarati version Sanru
Rangili) had occupied him for three
years. He had relocated himself from
Pune to a small Worli tenement to
audition each artiste; not to forget
the four-month long 7 am re»
hearsals, considering die day jobs of
artists like Bhakti Barve. Salish Duhhashi and Arviiid Deshpande.

room. His own

iiY i

whose competence lies in facilitat»
mg chartered helicopter flights.
Marathi theatre Circles display what
is called the “lie Kon Aale Tikoiirao”
(Who's this sriiarr a"?) syndrome,
Perceived as an odd choice of

Oh TH E afternoon of January 29,

5

Stage verSlon of
Phulmni is

diﬁmntff‘om the
’

Johnny-come-latelies [director Ra~
yesh Deshpande (46). lead actress

he wrote
Rajeshneshpande

Herriangi Kavt (30). are known but

After the fifth show (right up to

the SOan in 1989) Phulrani fulﬁlled
Pula's 'houseful' wish. lt blossoriied
into athree-andrarhalf hour popue
lar lyrical drama on a flower seller's
transformation into a society lady.
Shavis lampooning of British rigid»
ity became Pula's takeon class prejudice and social mobility in
Maharashn'a. underliningthe pornposity of cultivatedspeech in upper
class reﬁnement.
Whena play. as cultuially loaded
as Pula's Phulrani (equated with the

for sundry work in theatre. TV serir
als-ﬁlms: supporting arti ' es lack
aural, the new Phulrani in ially artracted negative attention Deshpande's “minimal trimming" ofthe
script (it is copyrightfree after Pula
and Sunitabai's death) has also
raised eyebrows. particularly from
sortie of Pula's family members.
Deshpande told them about the
“need for periodvappropriate" editing," of poetic passages. It is also०1)served that the cast. particularly Dr
Gin'sh Oak (the star face in the cast)
playing the phonetics professor responsible for Phulrani's makeover.
has a tendency to add spurvof-the»
moment lines to cash in on Pula's
hurriour. Dr Oakhas denied these allegations. publicised in a section of
the press on its 50th show.
“We are aware of the inviola~
bility of the script penned by a
master wordsriiith. But every director deserves roorri for tria-

- his own stage version ofPliulrani
is different frorii the play he wrote,
in fact. the published text is the
working script" says Deshpande
pointing towards an anonymous
lobby (sortie of therri have declined
invitations to see the new avatar).
which believes that only certain
groups deserve to stage Pula Veterr
ans don't go on record while raising
objections.

noeuvre. Had Pula been alive. he

would have granted us that room

r ५३

4/ ,

i

’ 1-४६. Madhav Abhyankar (right). who in 1994 resurrected the historical costume drama Ghashiralll Kotwal. says that many in
the Pune-based Theatre Academy termed him “foolisth ambitious" to attempt the (eat and. aside lmiri Dr Mohan Agashe.

no one had applauded his work

s ‘ I ३

for manoeiivre. Had

Those who criticised an inferior
Phulrani, later clairried in private
that they had not rrieant to derail
the shows and that they stood for
the spirit of experimentation in
theatre. One director stated he had
riiade a general comment on script
sanctity. which was superimposed
on the Phulrani episode by a mischievous mediapersort
Rajesh Deshpande's objection to
Marathi theatre‘s unwritten who'sworthy-of-which-script parameter finds echoes in actor
Madhav Abhyankar’s take on
resuscitated productions.
Abhyankar (53) resurrected the historical costuirie drama Ghashiram
Kotwal in 1994 and has
so farworked with ﬁrsttime artistes and producers to keep the play
alive for22 years.
Pune»based
Abhyankar had nursed the
ambitionof doingthe Nana
Phadnavis role ever sincehe
did backstagemanagement for
Theatre Acaderriy‘s Jabbar Pateldirected Ghashirai'n in 1973. “Apart
from my personal ambition to enact
the Peshwa. I wanted to revisit a
milestone —an original lridianspec—
tacle setin the folk theatre tradition
thatwent off the circuit after 2991 1

‘We have to take it
for granted that the
audience, and
those associated
with the earlier
production, will
expect a mirror
image of thefamed
artiste who did the
original’
Sharad Ponkshe

thought it had to be infused with
fresh blood," he recalls. Many in the
Academy termed him “foolishly arribitious" to attempt the feat Except
for Dr Moban Agashe (the actor ima
mortalised as the debauchee-power
monger Fadriavis) who not just
watched the new play but came
backstage to extend his good
wishes. none from the Academy circuit appreciated the courage, even
after the play survived two decades.
“Disheartenin was the veiled
threat (the original is due for a
comeback!)." Abhyankar recalls.
Among the theatre veteranswho
welcomed the new Ghashiram was
theatre manager SuretidraDatar. an
insider with over40 years of backstage management experience and
aspecial interest in revived produc»
tions. He rates the revived
Ghashiram as amongthe handful of
productions that have matched up
to the original magic. “To be honest.
i watched the show with rtiuch
trepidation because i wasn't sure
how many hours the team had de- A
votedto the rehearsals in this postcellphone world — die original one i
had solidified over an untriter- ५
rupted six months in Pune. helmed "
by a director who doubled up as
practismgdoctor in Daund at that
tirrie.But I was pleasantly surprised
by the new synergy. just as I was in

Kimayagar —— actor Sadashiv Am«
rapurkar’s 1993 script on llelen
Keller's childhood — resurrected
by actress Sampada Kulkarnii it
made rrie forget the original" Datar
feels actors who attempt the re-

vivals of milestones need to assess
their vakoob (capacityl with greater
care. as popular faces are often
misguided into wrong choicest

He gives die example of actor
Dilip Kumar who graced the
1.000th show of'l‘oh Mee Navhech
in 1989 (a landmark play featuring
a realrhte trickster who hired six
women into marriage) and admit»

ted that he could never have taken
on the six roles that Prabhakar
Panshikar did with ease. Panshikar

