arr/“gabछि“क़हु "ital?
Kashinama ! How and why did it happen? It

was not totally by accident. Our Rangakarmee
Repertory regularly indulges in reading stories,
plays and themes. In this process the story

PANDE KAUN KUMATI TOHE LAAGI by Dr.
Kashinath Singh came across. । was slighty
stirred by the story initially, but the idea of a
play from it was obscure. Then I went through
other stories by Dr. Singh and started getting
' my visions. From a long time, the indiscriminate
onslaught of the west on our society, its
repercussions on the mindset of our people,
our own complexities, the easy disposal of
values and morality for petty gains and the

gradual degradation of the socio—economic
framework of our society has been bothering
me. I could see a possible picture of today‘s
society, the nation as a whole in my play. But it
was not as easy as was to think. Against the
background of Kashi, I could smell the nerves
and pulse of the nation. I started visiting
Varanasi again and again. Walking down the
lanes and bye lanes of Kashi I started
capturing the happy go lucky life of Kashi, its
simplicity, its slyness as well as its
carelessness. Each ghat of Varanasi is a world

in itself. I could see a whole nation on the ghats
with all its diversities. It became our nation
where everything today is up for sale-honesty,
values, morality, truth, heroism--- anything,
which man can lay his hands on. The question
that stood up on my tac was how are we going
to seva ourselves from this onslaught? Where
is this greed for consumerist culture going to
end ? What is the result of this change? For
whose sake? Whose benefit? Whose luxury?
And at whose cost? In trying to find answers to
these questions | created a new form which is
essential for each play to give it novelty. The
culture of Varanasi can never be completely
depicted without songs and music. 80, songs

were created. Music was played on stage.
And a fresh team of fifty energetic and vibrant
boys and girls spent months and months of
rehearsals to bring perfection to the
choreography After eight months of painful
excitement thaplay Kashinama wasfinally

born.

f

३३३५०

583?

x

७ l a (ti... ५८८

thaw
Rangakarmee , which completed 28 years of its
inception in January 2004, spearheads the Hindi
theatre in Kolkata today with fifteen productions
on its live repertoire,

Besides performances and othe regular
features like Samanvay for women, Sambhavna
for children and Sahityikee for playwrights.
Rangakarmee has travelled extensively to
different parts of the country, to rural interiors
and industrial suburbs spread throughout and
beyond the state, breaking language barriers
and reaching an audience that few theatre
Groups have reached till now.

