"VIEWS END REVIEWS"
Leaving aside for a movement his experiment with folk and
' traditional forms, one would like to compliment the director for

his ingenious use of space in mounting the action, his innovative
movements, grouping and his imaginative use of actors to express
aesthetic visual effects as sprouting of the leaves and waving of i

crops,

One welcomes Young Balwant 'I‘hakur as a promising

theatre talent,

With systematic training, constant practice and.

enough experience, he may be able to evolve his own idiom.

Tre-

mendous potential is here, it has to be made potent by devotion,
dedication and discretion. Here is a talent to be encouraged and
promoted and that too in the right direction,

~—~'I‘HE STA'I‘ESMAN, 18 JANUARY, 1987

The legend of ‘Bawa Jitto’ a 15th Century folk tale sung in
balled form in the hilly region of Jammu was creatively interpreted by Director Balwant Thakur. Amongst the many evocative
compositions the most rivetting was the sequence where Jitto

battles the forces of nature to convert a wild rocky space into the
most fertile plot of land,

From trees, animals to winds, water,

sapling and ﬁnally a rich swaying crop of golden wheat the actors

represented every stage through their bodies and limbs.

The rows

of ﬁngers ﬂutering in the breeze almost smelt of ‘Kanak’.

-—-THE HINDUSTAN TIMES, 19 JANUARY, 1987

Natrang of Jammu in its production of ‘Baba Jitto’ largely
depends upon ‘Karkan’. To provide variety the Director Balwant
'I'hakur introduces different elements of some other folk forms
like Hern, Kud, Sauian aud Geetru etc,

—'I‘IMES OF INDIA, 19 JANUARY, 1987

The Director has creatively used human body to express
various situations and locals.

At places these acquired the form

of visual poetry, imparting intensity to the Production.

The doom

of the exploiters is inevitable is the message of the play which
was effectively communicated. Narinder Sachar as Baba Jitto

invested portrait of an exploited farmer with a great deal of power
and emotional intensity, Neelam Bharti as Bua Gauri the daughter
of Jitto, aud Suresh Sharma as the victim of oppression and
comrade of Jitto gave engrossing performances,

——INDIAN EXPRESS, NEW DELHI
18 JANUARY, 1987

