Suez Sﬁaka‘
Stree Shakti aims at harnessing individual and collective energies of organisations engaged in human

welfare. This forum, apart from providing a platform for joint action also aims at collection of
related information. It is a movement to rouse and activate women of all classes and creed and

empower them with necessary information to work as a catalyst for fundamental social change. It is
not an exclusionist forum and would like to have a helping hand from everyone - man or women.
Stree Shakti seeks your time and commitment. Please enrol as member.

ACTIVITIES OF STREE SHAKTI ’97
Launched on 30th Nov. '96 in Calcutta with an Exhibition ’Stree Shakti’ by Eleven Women Artists :
Meera Mukherjee, Amla Shankar, Suruchi Chand, Chameli Rarnachandran, Iaya Ganguly, Jayshree
Chakravorty, Iaysree Burman, Depali Bhattacharya, Minakshi De, Suvra Chatterjee ठेठ Sangeeta
Gupta.

Hindi Play ’Rudali’ directed ठेठ acted by Usha Ganguly on 2nd December '96 at Kala Mandir, Calcutta
in association with ROWA.

Poetry Session on 3rd December '96 at Genesis, Art Gallery, Calcutta.
A Film show on 4th December '96 ’Chaar Diwari' directed by Rinki Bhattacharya at Padatik, Calcutta.
Meeting to generate awareness held at Sasha on 'lst March ’97, Calcutta.

" A panel discussion jointly organised by Stree Shakti (मूट Ladies business forum of Calcutta Chember
of Commerce on 28th April ’97 at Gyan Manch. Topic ’Can Stree Shakti be a catalyst for change and
its relevance to contemporary India’.
Participants: Tara Sinha; Moderator, Panelist.' Sister Cyril- Educationist, Dr. Anuradha Chanda Dept. Of history, Iadavpur University, Maitreyee Chatterjee - Secretary, Nari Niryatan Manch2-]!

Followed by a short play VAMA by Usha Ganguly.

IMMEDIATE CONCERN’S

।. '

v-

८३३3

९ 3३३ "-7”:

भै

To network with organisations and individuals.

द1‘ृ Jan-A21

iv

.
.
. .
.
Io create info - bank, to assmulate & process 1nformat1on.

.I.
'२

*

To establish ’Out Reach Cells' in Schools, Colleges and Institutions‘.”"”' " '

३३9

:
श्लीच्चाच्चाहूँ
अ

मA,
,क्या
:’ c" ’ -च्चोंद्दे 'है`

“"‘“"‘“"'

