“Rather Mela”
by
Leila da Costa

(M.A.B.T., Diploma in Child Development (London) State scholar Government
of Bengal studying Administration under Ministry of Education in London.
Formerly of the West Bengal Senior Educational Service; Principal, Government
Postgraduate Basic Training College for Women, Calcutta).

The two elementary f'acts reiterated by educationists throughout
the ages -‘ giving the children oppor.
tunities to move and express themselves. Where this has been experi-

mented upon it has been found that
qualities which are developed in this
way are of tremendous importa'ice
to all activities.

Since expression

in the Arts gives not only a natural
approach to academic subjects, but
also a more conﬁdent basis for talki ng the diﬂiculties of social relationships The truth of this statement can
'be illustrated by describing an activity which took place in a Junior
Basic school attached to the Postgraduate Govt. Basic Training College for Women in Calcutta.

“Our Eldest Sister,
On t'riday the 26th Sravana a
Fancy Fair (Ananda Mela) in connection with the Rathajatra will be

held in the College Assembly Hall
from 1 —— 2 pm. We shall be very
happy if you will join us at the

function.

Various kinds of articles

will be sold.

The entrance fee is

f'our annas only.

Your pupils of Class 1 1.”
Written in a neat hand, this let-

ter was delivered to me personally
on Wednesday, the end of AuguSt,
(18th of Sravana) by the Class

Minister or

‘Nayak’ of Class 11

Similar invitations in writing ware
delivered personally by other members of this class to the Nursery
Classes, to Classes 1 and 11 of the -

School.

The slight

variation in

wording was to the effect that stalls

would be allotted to the classes on
hearing from them, their speciﬁcation regardiug number of stalls
३ wanted, size of tables and other

pieces of furniture needed for the
exhibits or goods for sale, any
special preference regarding position of stall, i.e. lighting facilities
or nearness to the' entrance etc.The letters added that the Manager
of the Mela would try to meet the
to the
requirements of each class
best of his ability and requested

meet
the class representatives to'

day
him at tifﬁn period on Thursﬁnal
the

25th of Sravana when

