II a story.

The Story was turned

into a puppet show by the class and

’delighted- the school; The storyteller wrth the tambourine had a
hoarse voice at the end of the fourth

and be satisﬁed. Our charges are
moderate.”
The realistic quality
of these advertisements was due to

fact that most of the children live
near shops in the slum area.

They

performance; but did she wince?—

noticed the various signs and made

not once: the pleasure was equally

it a point to ﬁnd out a few more
when planning their stall. This is
an experiment in learning that has
meaning and that will “stay learnt”

hers,

What fair is worth its name

if there are not food stalls? The
children planned to have a fairly
large food stall offering the visitors

because the experience is part of

fried brinjal, papadams, fried oni—

their lives and the learning is con-

ons (called “piaji” in our part of
the world), potato chips, coconut

nected with their experience.

toffee, pan, lozenges and hot gram.
With the exception of the last two

and has come to stay.

items everything was cooked and
prepared by themselves. They had
a stall containing scrapbooks and
a well frieze containing‘large colour-

items of interest.

ed pictures cut out from magazines.

The

world has come into the class-room
Class III proudly diSplayed two
One was a mud

house complete with thatched roof
ﬁnished in the most professional
manner and containing all the furniture, eqptipment croekry, utencils

The scrap book had a few words or
a sentence explaining eaCh picture,
and both this book and well frieze
was the work of the most backward
group of children who were just
learning to write or manipulate
their ﬁngers by using scissors and

building materials as well as cost of
furnishing and equipment and allied

gum to stick the pietures cut out.

work in connection with this pro-

necessary for living.

The project

was the outcome of ten days work

in the three R’s periods—a total of
15 hours. The writing, measurement, sums, bills of order, cost of

The Nursery Class produced a stall ject was put down in a book for all
containing their handiwork—an asto see. Their second item of intrest
sortment of picture books, paintwas a model of a scene depicting
ings, paper ﬂowers, cardboard toys,
the railway station nearest to the
handpainted vases, dolls, cooking school to which the class paid a
set, a National Flag consisting of visit this time as well as the nearby
strips of rag dipped in the required , suburbs and paddy ﬁelds. The‘jclass
colours and wowens by means of a
divided itself into groups during
simple device. Class I was responCreative Activity period and produ-j
sible for a combined book-binding ced the different parts which go to
and “real gold” jewellery shop.
build up a railway station scene.
The articlees sold were made by
The ﬁrst two meetings were utilised
them and the most attractive thing for planning, describing what they
was their advertisements. Regular
saw and what they wanted to do.
business-like slogans like “We unThen groups chose to do the things
dertake all kinds of book-binding ——a minimum of suggestion and _dir.-.
and

repairing.

Give us

atrial

ection and maximum of materials

