. ant

a task at this early stage in

the growth of children. ~ The age
group being six to eight and the
children coming from children
backgrounds, uniformity of attainments in three R’s is not to be expected. Children are learning slowly to master the skill of reading and
writing.
Therefore, the teacher
provided for some work in which
reading and writing could be practised but o.iginality of thought or
expression was not emphasized.
The class discused the story of
Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra
—the origin of Rathajatra—and
touched upon the place of origin—
Puri. Then the teacher combined
this information with their environment, the custom of pulling the
chariot at the same time throughout
India and the season in which it is
observed. The teacher explained
that Melas were held because of
utilitarian reasons in older times in
the village. ihe sale of plants birds,
household articles of canework, iron

and brass implements gave an opportunity for a local market in the village
to sell its goods on a large scale.
Diﬂicult words were written on
black-board and each child wrote
this discussion in his or her writing
book. The bright as well as the
‘ dull child had equal opportunity to
write something.

The class Record

book contained original compositions about that visit to the local
Rathajatra Mela, the class project
and how it developed the plans
work of different groups, duties of

each individual on the ﬁnal day,
etc.

There was also another book

called “Hisab Khata.” This general information had a total account

of number of stalls to be held, the
details of food to be produced with

accurate list of ingredients, weight
and cost. Maintaining this bo'k
meant hard work as it entailed
much

reconnoitring

in the bazar

and shops to ﬁnd out prices and
suggestions from each other and

from home regarding the quantity
required. It meant collecting a subscription from- the class for the purchase of the foodstuff, including oil
and ghee for frying spices, and salt
for savouries and molasses for the
coconut toff‘ee- The class had to
provide details of cost, weight and

quantity which would be included in
that “Hisab Khata.” The three R’s
were very much in evidence in
this self chosen activity of organiz-

ing a Mela.

As they had collected

so ne money at the gate by charg-

ing an entrance fee and later by
the sale of food, toys, garlands,
rmsks,etc., the class kept a strict
account of income and expenditure.

Childern were given a grand opportunity to practise adding and
subtracting real money in the stalls.
The noise of laughter and
talking, the shouts of the enthusiastic

shopkeeaers

and

side show '

organizers, all vying with each
other for the attention . of the
visitors, the genuine enjoyment
and fun prevailing in the one
large room of the institution, was
cause

for happiness on the part

of the staff who realized at that
moment that “the teacher who
steers a child happily, through his
early years has one of the most

intrinsically enjoyable and satisfying
career in existence.”

Printed by P. C. Sharma at Progressive Printers, 218 Kam‘ala Market, New Delhi. 'I‘ele.‘ 28276

