\Vlilih’liNIW

{ﬂ ' 1

WIDE ANG-LE

(1w ten)Kumthaus Gm.or Gm Art Museum.

Called the “Picasso ofArchitecture", Peter Cook, who has

built [11200] has becomean mhlleclunl

landmark In Gm,Austria; art and drawingby

pushed the boundariesofthe craftthrough 11 is landmark

Peter cookthat are on show In Delhi:(Id! below)
Peter Cookll GalleryExpose inDelhi

designs, is exhibiting in India, writes Avantika Bhuyan
um. I wait
he fact that art andarchitecture share a symbir I ‘ Olli' relationship had been grome overlooked in
india till the National Gallery of Modern Art

linsted its ﬁrst-ever architecturalexhibition of
uremic: 1 Rni Rewztl's (lt‘nglIK in thesummer o!
1014 lullnu‘ed by it celebration oi habitat through a retro
spective olBalkrishna Doshi's work. ’l‘ill then.architecture
had only been recognised for its functionality rather than as
an amalgamation oi philosophy, history and aesthetics.
Gallery Espaee, located in the bustling commercial cont
plex oi1 )elht '६New Friends Colony. is now takingthis expiry
ration oi the constructed lanthcape rurtiier With its exhibinon, ‘Sir PeterConic Drawings front isms-2000'
What

3, 1

t

८

a- 1

Andw, 1.

In2
1-०

tle watercolour: lends amedlta lve quality to theanworlsr
“His work. with nature and vegetation forming an integral
pan ollt. has an organic feel to it. With a beautiful play ०111९।um] light. each creation looks magical.“ says Renu Modl.
owner. Gallery Espace. who has been drawn to the art in
architecture ever since MP liusaln designed her home in

was “What fascinates me aboutCook is his mind.” she says
Nature holds immense importance for Cook. For him.

architecture should lend Itselfto gardens and vegetation.
while being lightweighl. “it should be able to look at new

conﬁgurations rather than being in the "boxed-up' style. At
makes 1111५ event even more signiﬁcant is that this Cook's
times.one needs towork intothe ground.For “Blanca. bulldfirst t“vk'l show oiart and drawings in Asia.
ingscan be byand also Into thewater. Some ofmy drawings
Known asthe “Muse ol'Amlulecture‘, Cook hasbeen the
look at towersas carriers rather than stationary units,“says
(realive force behind designsor Ans Building in
Cook. who is so solt‘spolten thatone oﬂen has to
ﬁrm, Vienna
Business and i-‘conomics
“l worlt withI
bend forward to catch every wordthat he says.

Utichhll‘y’ 's new । aw iucu liy. theAbetl 1८111 School
oiArchitecture, Gold Coast Cultural Precinct and

muth younger
group now. Also,

He rates Archlyam as ahuge inﬂuence on his
laterwork. '1! alfected the way one looked at the

more. But more than anything else. architects

my worlt has

across theworld laud liiin ior pushing the bound
ant-s oi the craft through the 'Arcltiitratu", an

become more
lyrial than the
earlier days"

domestic unit. it inspired theuse of mobility. the
use of meditation.” he saysWhen asked ifthere are
any chances olrevlvlng the your). he laughs '1\vo

tll’tllil'ﬂﬂ’dﬂarchitectural group thathe ९०:'ना१1निरा०1
जा७श्री।1९प७"।""प्र1"1हि७ताजा1४९षपबोपुद्ध
utl and exhibited landmark expenrriental desiuns ~ suchas
(1हि:औ1य०आतपप-ताकि'य1पा०शा४२।शा७७८श्री९।सा८
anti “lilow uui Village". a temporary city inllaied hy:t hovuttrziii क्वे at a time when reelinology to even imagine suCh
ldC.L\ was not . at an e.

of the original members are dead Moreover. 1

work with a much younger group now. Also. my
work has become more lyrical thanthe earlierdays.‘

ook's association with Indiais notlimited to this exhibition. Iit: and hls team front CRAB, or the Cook Robotham
Art hitectural Bureau, codoundud by him and Gavin

“i ttok‘t work 11८० ,11५ ६11९ set new \tundrlrtls. it Is .1 work 111
at\Cl)’llhKlul‘linlllltigllltilltll1."MIVSllcllll hast-ti .irrlnn-tt

Ashlhll c. nu, who studied under Lookat tIiL' Architectural
'\‘>f~ui’llll]1ll| in 1 undo" in the woos. "ile wasthu nitisi e. ll 7
lug nut teacher to make an entry. Since then ills work "in
beer I sl tidied by generation.» or sludetils. l Its drawings rep
resent that exlrtiordinary output and it's a rare opportunity
It] we lllL'lIl displayed ।11 llellil."
menine iiituristit,tiiittiiiveiiiiniial -111८५-1111८०७'111८1०
keep niavir ig l I i ii to Hit I id lilte ti It mp as ti 1 it: u «lit» .in H I I Kl
lmllery LspaLt- 11८11111१111९०।1३५१11111५1६111111८'५111"111८111'11114
। mud e”. I] u itl high rises DI the “Skye alt t aty "or 1he tout- r ti l
8.11: I‘ztulti Illlll ५८९'111१ .ilmtrsl ilwillv wrapped itt ltsell lilt‘

Robotliarn, are working on arecreation centre in Mumbal(or
the niw rot itmup. "It will have sculptural rest arms. a funky
area torkids roger intowonderland andstntlght places where
people cart play volleyballt and so on.“ says Coolc hoping
that the pmth will be completed in is months.
Architects and an enthusiasts are 01 the opinion that
minttttlons such as this one are critical to highlight the
i 11 itxmance oitircliltecture inurban development. "We need
to slittwcmurcliitucturethat makes sens..- topeople and not
[he itinti that only makes sense to bankers and engineers.
And that's why llils exhibition is siyillicant.’ says Gmlu.

«u "wont. outwith/nun 1५,८11 mot» ८३1८-1/11४८४1 tritpitnvtrr
. tillv'ryFquil' Murmur: nuwtmurn an, 3015

