10
would be rewarded ten gold coins, but if the rock was not removed, the entire town
would be ﬁned. All try, ﬁrst one-by-one, and later collectivelyi bUt fal_]' At that

movent, Gangnath arrives. He removes the rock with ease. Everyone 18 taken by
surprise by this feat.
'
.
there for
The king comes for worship. He praise Gangnath and requests him to stay
1n
partICipate
to
come
All
sometime and preach. He also invites him to his palace.
for
the religious festivity kirtan and leave. But Gangnath gets restive, as Bhana,
whom he has come, does not turn up. Meanwhile Bhana’s close friend popi also
comes to participate in the kirtan. Gangnath keeps himself busy in reading palms
Episode—IV

and horoscopes. waiting all the time for Bhana.
Episode—V
Bhana resides out of the town boundaries as an outcaste. She has a child to lool<

after. Gopi tells Bhana about the mendicant giving full description of his accomplishment. Bhana gets suspicious and tells Gopi about Gangnath and her ﬁrst meeting
with him.
Episode—VI
(FLASH-BACK): Bhana, the daughter of Diwan, who is a widow visits the Nandadevi
fair and falls in love with Gangnath, the prince of Doti. She conceives from him.
Her parents and the entire community torture her, and ﬁnally ex-communicate her,
throwing her out of the village, where she stays waiting for Gangnath.

4

INTERMISSION
Episode—VII
Gangnath is busy with his kirtan, when Diwan visits him. He shows his palm to him.
While Gangnath reads his palm, the Diwan immediately realises his folly as many a
turth about his life and character would be disclosed. He withdraws his hand and

leaves the place. Everyone is puzzled by his behaviour. Gangnath keeps himself busy
with his routine.
Episode—VIII
The two traders, who had seen Gangnath’s f'eat at the Devidhura f'orest, reach Almora.
Near the Bhairabhath temple they are attracted by the singing which is going on
there. They recognise Gangnath and decide to tell the Diwan about him and his mission to take Bhana away. They also express their opinion that Gangnath may
be a
foreign spy in the garb of a mendicant.
Episode—IX

Jasodhar and Bhagirath inf'orm Diwan about the real personality of Gangna
th and
hIS mission. Diwan, a shrewd character hatches a conspiracy
to do away with him

and shares his plans with his trusted lieutenants Narotam, Baladut
t, Sheruwa and
Bhlmuwa .

