11
Episode—X
Gangnath is sad. He has waited for two days and nights. But Bhana is nowhere to
be seen. He spends a sleep-less night. Just before dawn Gopi, Bhana’s intimate
friend comes there, tells everything about Bhana to Gangnath, and takes him with
her to Bhana’s reSidence, outside the town.
Episode—XI
Gangnath meets Bhana. Tells her why he could not come to meet her and take her
during the last two years. He is happy to see Jhakaruwa Bala, their son. They decide
to spend the Holi there in the town and leave for Doti later. This conversation is
eavesdropped by Narottam and Bala Dutt who have been deputed by Diwan to keep
a watch on Gangnath’s movements.
Episode—XII
Diwan tells his coterie about his plan to kill Gangnath. He wants them to ﬁrst celebrate Holi with Gangnath but keep all their arms ready with them. He asks Narottam and Bala Dutt to kill the child ﬁrst.

Episode—XIII
Bhana is dressing herself up as a bride, as she is planning to go with Gangnath to
his land. Gopi comes and helps her. She asks Gopi to stand guard there on her child,
as she has to visit Devi temple to fulﬁl her promise to the goddess,——the promise of
untying the knot (a local custom). She leaves. Narottam and Bala Dutt enter and
forcibly, take away the child. The child is dashed against a rock and killed.
Episode—XIV

The Holi festival is on. Diwan alongwith his associates invites Gangnath to celebrate
Holi. Bhang, a drug mixed drink is freely distributed. Gangnath also enjoys the
drink. After the singing is over. Diwan requests Gangnath to do the town a favour,
before his departure. He requests him to set the wheels of the ‘Ghat’ in order, as
that is urgently required for grinding wheat. Baladutt Reigns sympathy with Gangnath. He says, “your clothes will be sullied if you enter the depths of the Ghat.”
Gangnath cannot reconcile himself to suilling the belt and the scraf given to him by
his Guru. He agrees to enter the water after putting off his belt and the scraf. This
was what the Diwan was ultimately after, because Gangnath could not be vanquished with his belt and scraf on. Gangnath enters the Ghat. Diwan sees his opportunity
and commands his men to kill Gangnath. Gangnath breaks the wheels of the Ghat,
sets himself free and comes out, though mortally wounded. He accuses the Diwan

and the crowd there of being cowards and betrayers. But he is helpless. Bhana with
the dead body of her child enters. She sees Gangnath in that condition. The situation
transforms Bhana into a deﬁant person. She condems and curses the people and the
region. Diwan orders his people to kill her as well. She is also killed. A refrain is

heard that their spirirts would continue to hunt that region.

