DELHI ART THEATRE

HEER RANJHA

written by SHEILA BHA'I‘IA

Heer Ranjha is a legendary romance ending in tragedy, which was ﬁnally
given classical form and shape by Warris Shah during the 18th Century.
Sheila Bhatia’s version is, however, a complete departure in form and technique from its earlier creation.

The story opens with Ranjha, disgusted with the treatment he received
at the hands of his brothers and their wives, entering Heer’s village. When
Heer and her friends ﬁnd Ranjha asleep they throw him off the bed. On
awakening Ranjha sees Heer and they fall in love.
In the meanwhile, Heer’s father is on the look out for a good cowherd.
Seizing this opportunity of introducing Ranjha, Heer brings him to her father.
However, Kaido, Heer’s uncle, is suspicious and in the garb of a lame ascetic
follows Heer as she takes some food for Raniha. There he ﬁnds Raniha alone
and asks for some food.

On Heer’s return, she realizes that the ascetic was

none other than her uncle and with the help of her friends, she attacks Kaido
and takes away the food—the circumstantial evidence.
Kaido, angry at Heer’s behaviour, vows revenge, and threatens Malki,

Heer’s mother, that he will report Heer’s love to the village elders. The
scandal spreads and Malki is taunted by the village women. When Heer
returns, she has no knowledge of what has happened. Her mother abuses
her but Heer is adamant.
In the meanwhile, an offer for Heer’s hand comes from the Kheras of

Rangpur. Kaido, Malki and Chuchak consult with the other relatives. Heer
then meets Ranjha in the ﬁelds and begs him to take her away with him.
Raniha hesitates and in the meanwhile Heer is dragged home by her father.
There is a great gaiety when Heer’s marriage is to take place but Heer
is laden with grief and sorrow and begs her mother to save her.
With the arrival of the marriage party, Heer vehemently denies the
marriage bond but Kaido, through clever manipulation, forces her to accept
and Heer leaves her maternal home.

In the village of Rangpur, at Heer’s in-laws, Heer remains in anguish.
Here, Saithi, Heer’s sister-in-law, consoles her.

It is while this is going on that Ranjha comes to the Village.

Called to

