bless the sorrowing bride, he takes Heer’s name.
she gets Ranjha thrown out of the house.

This infuriates Saithi and

Now, Heer realizes that she has to take Saithi into her conﬁdence.
Pleading in the name of Murad, Saithi’s lover, Heer and Saithi hatch a plot.

Saithi persuades her mother to let her take Heer into the ﬁelds to try
and make her happy. Suddenly Saithi rushes in to say that Heer has been
bitten by a snake. The snake charmer can do nothing to cure Heer. The
voice of the ascetic is heard outside. Aju, Heer’s father-in-law, calls him in
but the ascetic only accepts on condition that no one but an unmarried girl
remain with him.

Heer and Ranjha elope even though some people see her running away
and try to catch her.
Time passes, and Malki, Heer’s mother, having had no news about her

daughter is very anxious about her. A new attendant brings the news that
some woman has been telling the story of Heer’s and Ranjha’s elopement, of
how they were caught and tried, and of how the prince released the lovers
but arrested the Kheras instead. Heer’s parents immediately recognize the
woman as Heer.

When Heer returns home, Malki promises to let her marry Ranjha but
fate wills otherwise. Kaido works against her once again and when Heer’s
father-in-law demands her return, he makes Chuchak, Heer’s father, write a
letter promising to send her within a month.

The story ends with the Villagers demanding Heer’s expulsion but on
Kaido’s suggestion of poisoning Heer rather than to let her suffer dishonour,
Malki kills her own daughter.

THE DELHI AR T THEATRE
The Delhi Art Theatre has entered into the seventh year of its existence.
From the beginning and during this period the group has been guided by two con—
victions, ﬁrstly, that
a theatre movement has to be revived, there is ample
evidence of such a revival, it must relate itself to life. No theatre can grow
which allows itself to be divorced from its socio-cultural roots. Further, that
whatever inspiration we might derive from Western dramatic tradition, and whatever Western stage techniques we might ﬁnd worth while adopting, the stage in
India must begin to reﬂect the life of our society. Secondly, the rich classical
and folk tradition of music, song and dance, so amply reﬂected in the Indian
theatre of yesteryear, must once again be pressed in the service and development
of the contemporary theatre. Our production programme, we hope, is some indication of both our aims and our convictions.
The enthusiastic reception that the Delhi audiences gave to ‘Heer Ranjha’
is some indication that the operatic form has a long future in a country, whose
range of music, classical and folk, is perhaps without a parallel in the world.

