SA M SKR IT I KI

JULIUS CAESAR written by WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Julius Caesar is, in many ways, the prelude to the great tragedies of
William Shakespeare. It is the ﬁrst full ﬂowering of his tragic muse as it
stands on the threshold of that great Quartet of tragedies which make him
unsurpassed as a poet and a sage, pre-eminent in all Literature.
In Julius Caesar, great literature chooses the overthrow of Tyranny as
its theme. It departs from the episodical treatment of the best English historic
plays and concentrates on a central theme tracing Shakespeare’s development
ofthe conception of tragedy. Caesar’s star is on the decline and the great
Conqueror of the world is now beset by doubts and fears as he aspires for the
crown. Republican Rome is set against it though Caesar manages to supress
the mob. The chief architect of his fall, Cassius, is the genius behind the
conspiracy to overthrow Caesar. But after the fall of Caesar, it is the noble
but less worldy, Brutus, who takes charge of the situation against a counter
movement headed by the astute Antony, who later overwhelmed the mob
with his tirade against Brutus and the followers of Brutus.
Brutus is not equal to control the upheaval which Caesar’s death brings.
about. The spirit of the dead Caesar haunts the ‘noble Brutus’ and for all
his good intentions and great qualities, Brutus eventually ﬁnds himself vanquished. In the end the greatness of Brutus does not go unnoticed. Antony
recognizes him for his full worth and the play ends with the death of Brutus.
It is the tragedy of Brutus and not of Caesar.

SA MSKR ITIKI
“Samskritiki” is a small group of drama enthusiasts, coming from Naini
Tal to participate in the Annual Drama Festival of the Delhi Natya Sangh.
They have chosen to perform William Shakespeare’s great tragedy, julius Caesar.
Apart from the fact that the play contains a number of dzﬁ‘icult battle scenes,
there is a huge cast, and there are many changes in the stage settings. As usual,
there are ﬁve main acts and there are only two female characters.
The group has also prepared plays like “Prometheus Bound” and “Rebirth”,
a play written by the producer and director of “fulius Caesar” Promil
Marthand.
IO

