BA I SA KH I MA HAL

ULKA

produced by DWIJENDRA NA'I‘H MI'I‘RA

The word “Ulka” means a meteor. It is the story of an unwanted
child born into this world, ugly and deformed, and cast away by his father, a
wealthy gentleman suffering from a terrible inferiority complex.
Rai Bahadur Raiib Ghosh had everything to satisfy him but his personal
looks. In order to impart better features to his progeny he married Kamala,
a woman of great beauty. In due course Kamala bore him a son, Arunangshu, but the poor child was born so hideous that the infuriated father, Rai

Bahadur, decided to do away with it through the assistance of his friend,
Doctor Suhrit Sarkar. The Doctor, however, took pity on this poor unwanted
infant and secretly transported him to a sanyasi, Birajananda, who reared him
in an orphanage. Kamala was informed that her son had died.
In course of time, Kamala born two other children and her pang for the
ﬁrst-born gradually subsided. But it was not so with the father. The excitement of youth having passed he could not but help brood over the hideous
crime he assumed he had committed and broke off all connections with his
doctor friend, although Sarkar’s motherless daughter, Mili, was bethrothed to
Subir, the second son of the Rai Bahadur.

Twenty-ﬁve years passed by and meanwhile Birajananda, head of the
Orphanage, told Arunangshu of his parentage. Wild ﬁre ravaged the heart
of the poor man.

On the death of Birajananda, Arunangshu rushed to Dr.

Sarkar to get his birth history veriﬁed. The Doctor begged him not to haunt
the home of the Rai Bahadur as his very appearance would cause a storm but
his persuasions were of no avail. Kamala was horriﬁed to hear a monster call
her ‘Mother’ and the unfortunate soul was driven out of his home into jail on
a charge of illegal trespass into his own father’s home. The story revolves
around this helpless Arunangshu till he saves the life of Subir at the cost of
his own.

BA ISAKHI MA HAL
Baisakhi Mahal was founded on Baisalehi Day in 1956' and has its oﬁice at
35-13, Academy Lane, in New Delhi. It was established to cater cultural food to
members and to infuse a healthy atmosphere. Baisakhi Mahal takes an interest
in a variety of social activities.
It has as its Hony. General Secretary, Shri Prosad Mulehopadhyaya, who
was born in Khulna and brought up in Calcutta. Head of the Cultural
Association, Baisakhi Mahal, which had given quality Bengali plays to the Delhi
audiences, he is also a social worker and organizer having active habits
and a
pleasing manner. He was attracted to the stage at a very early age.
Now he
is working with the Indian Posts {‘9’ Telegraph Department, New Delhi.
The Director of “Ulka”, Shri Durga Pado Bhattacharya, is a man we
llknown in the cultural. circles of Delhi. He was formerly—hriowrz ३ as
a sportsman>
but later, was recognized as an outstanding artist.
I2

