NEW DELHI MAHILA SAMITY

ROMA

directed by ASHISH MAJUMDAR

Roma, a young Widow, is one of three zarnindars of Kuanpur, a village
in Bengal. The other two are Beni Ghoshal and his cousin, Ramesh Ghoshal.
During Roma’s childhood, she and Ramesh played together but their fathers,
Jadu Nath Mukherjee and Tarini Ghoshal, were not on amicable terms.

As

Roma grew up she became inﬂuenced by this petty feud while Ramesh escaped
all this because, on the death of his mother, he had been sent away to his

maternal uncle’s home in Allahabad.
The play begins with Ramesh, now a young man, returning to his
native village to perform the Shradh rites of his father. Beni, who had
cherished hopes of appropriating Ramesh’s property, ﬁnds that with Ramesh’s
return there is a great obstacle in the fulﬁlment of his ambitions. Beni, along
with some of the more inﬂuential men of the village, tries hard to make the
situation difﬁcult and unpleasant for Ramesh. Even Roma is inﬂuenced.
Ramesh, lonely and friendless, decides to leave, but Bisweshwari, Beni’s

mother, who is very fond of Ramesh, persuades him to stay. She asks him to
work for the improvement of the village and its inhabitants and blames their
ignorance for the state of affairs that exists. She also discloses that Roma is
not really as antagonistic as she appears to be towards him. All this makes.
Ramesh change his mind.
As time passes, Ramesh gains the conﬁdence of a large majority of the
backward people with whom he works. However, Beni and his group falsely
accuse Ramesh of attempted murder on a statement given by Roma, and he is
taken into custody. Ramesh’s followers are infuriated by Beni’s action but
Ramesh patiently undergoes his imprisonment without complaint. In the
meanwhile Roma, realizing her mistake, undergoes a self imposed penance
which consequently affects her health. Bisweshwari, who understands the
situation well, plans to take Roma away with her on a pilgrimage.
Ramesh serves the term of his sentence and comes back to the village.
Beni tries to convince him that Roma was the cause of his suffering and
almost succeeds, but when Ramesh goes to her house to see her he is surprised

to ﬁnd her ready to leave the village for ever. Her parting desire is that
Ramesh take care of her little brother, Jatin, with the added request that
Ramesh bring him up like himself, ready to sacriﬁce everything for the sake of
humanity. Ramesh has to give his consent and Roma sets out on her journey.

MEL A MESHA
The New Delhi Mahila Samin was set up in 1947 to promote social, religious
and educational activities. Among other things the Samity started a physical
unit under the guidance of Shri Ranjit Mazumdar.
In 19:30, the Samity
established a primary school in memory of one of the students of the physical unit
who had died after an illness. The school, called “Ranur Pathshala”, has 12
students on its rolls under the vice-presidentsth of Shrimati Sailaja Sen Gupta.
Seth jugal Kishore Birla has been kind enough to help the schoolﬁnancially.
In the latter part of 1956, it was decided by the Management of the “Ranur

Pathshala” to have a cultural and literary unit, “Melamesha” which stages this
drama.

I4

