PUNj'AB हूँ THEA TRE

Recognizing the vital role that theatre must play in the regeneration of
India, having been impressed by the regional development of drama in this and
other countries, and proﬁting by past experience on and off the stage, with plays
of foreign origin, a group of Punjabi playwrights, artists and citizens of Delhi
established a “Punjabi Theatre” in the year 1949.

The chief aim of this organization is to promote a Punjabi stage in the
Metropolis and elsewhere, and thereby provide a cultural forum, from which
Punjabis, now of necessity, scattered all over this subcontinent, and others interested
in the stage, can derive pleasure and enlightenment. The Punjabi Theatre
endeavours to use the highly potent and artistic medium of the stage for increasing
social awareness, for promoting a fuller life and towards a general advancement
of the people.
The Punjabi Theatre’s inaugural performance was on November 22, 1949
at

the

Wavell

Theatre, Queensway,

New

Delhi.

Three

one—act plays,

“Pichhal Pairi” and “Do Anne” by Balwant Gargi, and “Balai Pher” by Gurdial
Singh Khosla were presented. This was followed by two performances of “Buhe
Baithi Dhi” by Khosla on january 21, and 22, 1950 at the Massey Hall,
Y. M. C. A ., New Delhi. This play was repeatedfor two nights on March 4 and 5.
The Punjabi Theatre next presented on May '20 and 21 at the Wavell Theatre
three one-act plays, “Man Diyan Man Wich” by Harcharan Singh, “Be-iman”

by I. C. Nanda and “jutiyan da j‘ora” by Khosla.

This was followed by another programme of three one—act plays “jinn”
by I. C. Nanda and “HAR” and “Be-Ghare” by G. S. Khosla on 23rd, 24th
and 25th September, 1950.

In 1951 the Punjabi Theatre participated in the Republic Day pageant
organized by the Govt. of India, and presented a tableau depicting the Durbar of
Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The Theatre also contributed a tableau to the pageant
of 1957, the tableau depicted a scene from rural Punjab. The Govt. of India has
once again requested the Theatre to prepare a tableau for the parade of the ensuing
year.
An adaptation of G. B. Shaw’s “Pygmalion” and three more one-act plays
were produced in 19.51. The highlight of the activities of the Punjabi Theatre
this year was the production of three plays written specially for and acted by
children. These were presented for four nights in june and August and w€;e
repeated again during the ﬁrst week of December, 1952 to inaugurate Delhi Natva
'
Sangh’s Winter Programme.
The Punjabi Theatre invites the coo. perati
. on of writ
. ers, producers, actors

and others who can help the advancement of its aims and objects.

,

The name of the play and the cast will be announced separately.
2I

