VINAY NAGAR BENGALI CLUB

BISARJAN

written by RABINDRANA'I‘H TAGORE

“Bisarian” depicts the conﬂict between Power and Love in which Love
emerges victorious as a result of the sacriﬁce of an individual.
Sacriﬁce of animals at the altar of the Mother-Goddess was the traditional
form of worship in the Kingdom of Tripura. Raghupati, with all the zeal
of an ardent devotee, was the High Priest of the Cult of Power. Govindamanikya, deeply moved by the genuine grief of Aparna, whose pet kid was
also sacriﬁced, was drawn by the greater force of Love and prohibited by
decree throughout his realm the practice of animal sacriﬁce in the name of
the Mother-Goddess. Gunavati, who had no child, had made solemn promises
before the Goddess, that she would arrange regular and colossal animalsacriﬁces at the altar if she was blessed with a child.
Thus was engendered the conﬂict between Power and Love in the midst
of which Jai Singha, whose respect for Raghupati was no less than his devotion
to the Mother-Goddess or his loyalty to the King, found himself in a peculiar
His simple and devoted soul was gradually engulfed by the cloud
dilemma.
of divided loyalty but slowly he came to recognize through the affection of
Aparna, the derneanour of the noble King and the stratagems resorted to by
Raghupati to retain his failing pontiﬁcal authority, that the real purpose of the
Mother-Goddess could be best served if Love won over Power. He also realized
that only the sacriﬁce of a life and that too, his own, was the only way to achieve
this noble end. The ﬁnale came when he successfully carried out his intention.

At this tragic turn of events when before his own eyes, he had to see the
end of the devoted Jai Singha, whom he loved so dearly, even Raghupati came
to recognize the supremacy of Love in the order of things created by a benign
Mother-Goddess and relinquished his belief in the Cult of Power he had
cherished for so long.

Gunavati, who meanwhile had estranged herself from her husband,
realized the power of Love and the wisdom of Govindamanikya and returned
to the fold of his love.
22

