From The Chairman . . .
Roopkatha has emerged. over the years as a potential group in the direction of
promoting theatre art in the city of Allahabad. Allahabad, being a cultural heritage of
creative art, has given birth to so many great men in the past who loved the theatre
art and kept it alive. But the theatre art ran into constraints following a tardy economic
growth of the city; the money available through donations or ticket sales—the two
main sources of funds to meet the producrion cost—proved inadequate. But in spite
of such depressing conditions, Roopkatha continued to struggle on retaining its unique
status. Its executive members, mostly belonging to the educated elite, deserve a lot
of praise and kudos for the hard and sincere Work they all have been putting in for
the organisation.

I am pleased to have the honour of being the chairperson of Natyotsav, marking
the completion of a decade of Roopkatha’s existence and contribution to the national
drama movement. The Nehru Centenary Year has also livened up our sprit, and therefore we are desirous of organising seminars and lecture series on the remarkable role

played by Pt. Nehru in the cultural development of India.
I distinctly recollect how Pt. Nehru had sat for nearly two hours in the small
auditorium of A. N. Jha Hostel in the year 1959 and
witnessed, and also enjoyed, an ordinary humourous

drama, staged by the Students living in the hostel. Who
can forget such an informal and encouraging disposition
on the part of a prime minister of India? He really
enjoyed the play and laughed over its witty and humou-

rous, sequences along with the small gathering who
watched the play that eventful evening. It was evident
that Pt. Nehru had a natural liking for the creative
theatre art and we all deeply felt it, and this small inci-

dent has aIWays inspired me, and as we go ahead with

the Natyotsav during his centenary year,

We fondly

cherish the memory of the great personality and also his
invaluble contribution to the art, culture, and history of this country.
We also remember our friend and elder brother, the late Manish Debi, a drama

activisit of the city, who met an unfortunate road accident few months ago.
val is dedicated to his great memory.

I 1113 festi-

I thank our convener, Mr. Parimal Dutta, under whose‘untiring eﬁbtts and leader-

ship, Roopkatha celebrates the Utsav in an elegant manner. ’I he Valuable Support. given
by other member-friends has been so commendable that to name them all here 1nd1v1dually shall look ungraceful; so I am not doing so.
We take this opportunity to express our thanks to all those who have contributed
in various wavs in making Natyotsav a success. Our gratitude also goes to those Who
Our spec1al thanks are due to
contributed advertisements and made donations.
Mr. N.D. Tiwari, our Chief Minister, and the Directorate of Culture Govt. of U.P., for

their kind cooperation and help tOWards the success of the utsav.

30-10-1989

ASHOK MITRA,
Chairperson Dashakotsav

