On 12th November, 1989
at 630 P. M.

Madhav Malanchi Kainya
The basic theme of the play is love.

This particular story has been taken from

a collection of folk ballads named ‘Mymensingh Geetika’ (Myrnensingh is a district in

East Bengal, now Bangladesh), that have been in circulation for about 300 years and
was put to Writting by some eminent scholars in the ﬁrst half of this century. The
characters of the play may be a prince, a princess, a king. a Wazir or a common man,

but tney reﬂect and represent the rural lifestyle then prevalent in Bengal. We ﬁnd
the village folks simple but intelligent, loving but bold, poor but humane. We hardly
ﬁnd any sign of disharmony or disaffection among communities on the basis of religion
or caste.

Women in these ballads are found to have rare sense of dignity and self~

respect. Malanchi, the central character of the play is a character in example.
THE STORY
1.

The ‘dying king Dulav leaVes his youngest son Madhav—still a minor—to the

care of his eldest daughter-in-law Chandraban, who is just like a mother to
the child.
2.

The moment the king breathes his last. all his sons except Madhav fall out among
themSelves over the throne foregetting even to perform the last rites, Chandra.
ban calms them and asks them to consult the court astrOloger to settle the issue
of succession.

3.

According to the astrologer’s ﬁndings Madhav is destined to be the king of the
land. The ﬁve power-hungry brothers of Madhav get infuriated at that 7and

hatch a conspiracy to kill him.
4.

Chandraban comes to know all about this and asks Madhav to ﬂee from the King—

dom immediately. As a parting gift she hands over to Madhav a magic necklace
which can take him to any place as he would desire and that too within
minutes.
5,

Madhav comes to another kingdom.

A tired Madhav while sleeping under a

tree is spotted by the Wazir of the land. He takes him home.
his wife bring up Madhav as their own Chlld.

The Wazir and

6. The Wazir takes'MadhaV to the Court so that he can study under the royal tutor.

