The King forces the Wazir to let Madhav live in the
palace till he completes his
studies.
7, Madhav is now a grown up youth.

The day his schooling is over, he happens to

have a look at Malanchi, the young princess who also studies under the same
tutor. It is love at the ﬁrst sight. Both are attracted to each other. Madhav
proposes Malanchi to marry him. But how can Malanchi agree '9 She is already
engaged to another prince. Her marriage is scheduled the very next day. However, Malanchi agrees to elope with Madhav only if Madhav can secure a dreamboat within an hour and wait for her in the river behind the palace.
Madhav, using the magic necklace rushes to Chandraban and seeks her help to
get the dream-boat. Chandraban sets her men to construct the dream-boat
in no time. Madhav goes back to the river where he is supposed to meet
Madhav.
In the din and bustle of the festive occasion Malanchi leaves the palace

and takes

a circuitous path to meet Madhav.
l 0.

Meanwhile, Madhav gets impatient and leaves his boat to go into the palace to

ﬁnd out reasons for Malanchi’s delay.
l l.

Malanchi comes across the boat in the river.
asleep in the boat.

A man covered under a wrapper is

Assuming him to be Madhav, Malanchi starts rowmg the

boat to a Safe distance. At One point of time she discovers that the man under
the wrapper is not Madhav, but a boatman who has got into Madhav s boat out
of confusion in the darkness.

altogether.

She now realises that she has lost track of Madhav

She decides to set out in search of Madhav in disguise of

a ‘’ Sepoy’’.
l 2.

Malanchi reaches a new kingdom, buys a horse and her smartness. and courage
impress the local king. He ﬁnds in her a brave soldier who can kill the demon
who Visits the town every night and devours a human sacriﬁce offered to him

under contract.
possible

The King appoints Malanchi (the Sepoy) to do this . near-1m »

job and

offers

her

half

of the Kingdom and the

princess

in

ICtu I n .

l 3.

Malanchi kills the demon.

But when she (the Sepoy) is asked to marry the king’s

daughter Fulmati she buys time on the pretext that she Will have to fulﬁl hit
dug .y
mother’s desire before her marriage. Her mother desired to have a pond
as many number of people as possible, on condition that each digger will dig
not more than one basketful of earth and will get the same quantity of Karl
(equivalent to a coin of loweSt denomination) as remuneration.
l4.

During this entired period Madhav has been roaming from placeto place in search
of his beloved.

He hears the announcement of the pond digging.

PenmleSS

