Influence of Folk Elements in contemporary Theatre
“HABIB TANVEER

Report of Seminar
——J. N. BHARGAVA
The above Seminar was organised as a part of the week-long drama festival,

NATYOTSAV 1986 held by Roopkatha. Allahabad from November 9 to November
16. 1986 at the Mehta Auditorium from 5 p. m. to 7 p. m. The proceedings were conducted by Dr. Ashim Kumar Mukherjee and the main speaker was Shri Habib Tanveer,

a reputed actor, director and dramatist.
At the outset, Dr. Mukherjee welcomed Shri Habib ‘I‘anveer and brieﬂy introduced
Natyotsav and the theme of the Seminar. He described the seminar as one of the three
signiﬁcant elements of the annual drama festival Which Roopkatha has organiSed
for the past three years, the other two being staging of plays by reputed theatre organizations and the honouring of celebraties.

Referring to the choice of discussing the

inﬂuenee of the folk elements on contemporary theatre, he said that there were possibly
two angles of looking at the problem, namely, use of folk theatre for preserving our

rich national cultural heritage. and the more commonly observed tendency to use folk
just for the audience who have been exposed to the western theatre for long. He also
raised a signiﬁcant issue of the rationale of holding cultural festivals at nationals and
local levels from the view point of economic jusriﬁeation and the eﬁ'ectiveneSS in
bringing about the much desired national integration. He requested Shri Tanvir to
take up the above mentioned issues. which Seem to be stil unresolved.

Shri 'I‘anvir identiﬁed eo~existence of several Features in India like continuity Of
songs अ१ता1 dances,
rural culture, rich languages, contentment and happiness, really good
as well as poverty. The mix differs from region to region but folk culture is something
universal. For instance, folk palys exist in almost all regions. although the shift may

dilier~ comedy plays prevalent in Chahatisgarh Region while tragedies in Bengal.
He descsibed rural drama capable of portraying ever minutes of details of life.
Two hundred years Of British Rule has helped in linking of cultural movements शाधि
the wider socio-economic movement in the country.

The close link of social culture with the soil is established by the strange fact that
ualitv of performance in rural theatre has been found to have no correlation with eduहुँम्पादुछामुँ He himself fcund that the most successful vaeha performers in Chhatisgarh

