Riglon were uneducated and even illiterate.

Modern education, he mentioned, has

311 Stantlally adverse effect on creativity and has promoted mechanising of functioning.

He spoke about various experiments conducted for promotion of folk theatre.
Even Such efforts back sincerity, he maintained, emphasis is still 'on education with the
result that it is the professionally educated artistes who get the real beneﬁts with their
original counterparts totally uneﬁ'ected. Even the schemes of providing awards and
incentives by the Government have encouraged exploitation of the folk artistic by the

capitalists, Even folk art seems to have cost credibility among the rural masses due
to not proving a meaningful way of earning bread and butter.
Excessive encouragement to folk theatre and that to for political purposes has

inbreeded a new culture, where people tend to be revolutionary for display purposes.
The ruling class has made folk culture as too big to be beyond the reach of common
people. It has been made too difﬁcult and non-understandable.
He questioned the undue emphasis on degrees even in the field of ﬁne arts/per-

forming arts. Education is important and does add to the polish but lack of education
does not necessarily imply lack of skills.
In fact rural culture has been snatched from the place from where originated.
' ‘he situation is similar to the one when the British; the then exploiters, made every
possible effort to restrict the growth of Indian culture and handicrafts. Still We have
the culture of the eprOiters and that of the exploided. Co-existing side by side the
growth of urban culture has assulted the emergence

of

mixed/blended

theatre in the preservation of the original forms of vatious folk cultures.

with big

National

integration it a misnomer he said. in the name of which the urban elite are permitted

to play with the folk art and culture.
He even critiCiSCd the organizing of culture festivals at National level which resuited in mere confusion and chaos. In fact such festivals should be promoted at local
levels, Such occasions will be mere effective in bringing about integration as well
has
preservation of our cultural heritage. He gave the example of Calcutta which
should
Education
ﬁlms.
and
theatre
of
ﬁeld
the
in
centre
emerged as a metropolitan
for being
ptomote tolerance and open mindedness rather than function as a license
recognized as an artiste.
stagnation.

of
Rural culture should be made dynamic by elimination

The talk was followed by a long discussion in which the members from the
manner.
audience raised several iSSued which were diSCussed in an open
6
Dated : November 13, 198

