1%.??qul by
rthe nver

In the simple lyrical verses of Kabir lie the
answers to our most complex spiritual
questions. And for three days in November,
the Darbhanga and Assi Ghats of Varanasiwill
reverberate with the soulful music inspired by
Kabir, the enigmatic 15th century mysticpoet. The Mahindra Kabira Festival will run
from 4-6 November, offering a haunting and
immersive experience of imbibing Kabir's
८ philosophies and the lyrical aspect of his
teachings through a programme, which will
celebrate Kabir's passion andverse, linking them
inextricably with the fascinating spirit of
Varanasi, his birthplace.
The Mahindra Group and Teamwork Arts
have crafted a unique annual festival in
Varanasi ~ a city that perfectly encapsulates
Kabir's idea of inclusiveness and diversity. The
festival promises a journey of inspirational
music along with heritage walks, literature sessions, food and yoga. Three unhurried days oflosing the mundane as you meander through
the bylanes of the city, meditate on the banks
of the holy Ganga to find your elusive inner
self, savour the local Banarasi cuisine and shop
atthe quaint shops behind everygully and nook
~ whatever you do, you will find that the endless city has more to offer.
Visitors, music-lovers and spiritual-seekers will have an unforgettable experience of
listening to the leading exponents of the
Benares gharana andfolkmusic traditions, luminaries of Sufi, dadra, thumri and khayal gayaki styles, of ghazals along with the maestros
of pakhawaj and tabla, against the incomparable backdrop of the ghats of Varanasi.
The experience shallbe ampliﬁed with Ianguid afternoon literature sessions around
Kabir and his philosophy, the taste of local food
down the streets of thecity and wondrous musical evenings as thesun sets on the Ganga. While
attendance to the events across the three days
is free and open to all, customized delegate
packages offer a curated experience of the festival. The exclusive packages, with various
optiéns, will essentially be an experience
which will begin from the momentone sets foot
in Varanasi. It will give an opportunity to live
outthe history of one of the world’s oldest cities
and experience its overpoweringcharacter amid
regal splendor; breathe in the ambience through
specially-designed heritage walks, taste the delectable ﬂavours on food trails.

