४ ०\ V
f

हैम":

The Myth of Yayati
I

II

.Devyani, the ambitious daughter of Sukra, the Puroh
ita of
Ydﬂtl, king Vrsaparvan-— one of the vassai§ of Yayat
i रूनी and the
father of Sharmishtha and hacha Sukras pupil comprise
the
dramatis personae of a closely woven succession of storie
s.
Thr first story concerns the mythical origin of fire (agni)
brought to earth by the ancient fire—priest Bhrgu, who passed
on
the magical element to his descendants, the Bhargavas.
Agni,
alone of the gods to possess immortality, thus aroused their enyy
so they deputed Kaca, BrhaSpati's son, to become a pupil of the
.
Bhargava Sukra and by devious means obtain the secret of immortality.
Kaca made several attempts, each of which might have cost
him his life but for Devayani, whose motive in rescuing him was
her determination that he should marry her.
This was an,
unforeseen complication, which was aggravated by his refusal
(and his explanation, that as her father’s pupil his relationship
to her was th;t of a brother, and that therefore their marriage
would be incestuous. .That problem was resolved by Kaca's discovery of Sukra's secret and his return to the delighted gods.
The next episode is concerned with the peculiarly feminine

'

.

quarrel of Devayani and Sarmistha, which culminated in.$armisthal34kﬂk 0441
being thrown into a disused well, where she might have periShed
but for her discovery by Yayati, when out hunting. Thwarted
again, Devayani repeated to her father some of Sarmistha's taunts,
undeniably true and therefore the more unforgivable and insisted
that Sarmistha and her attendants should become her servants; a
demand her father vrsaparvan was powerless to refuse.
~
With her potential rival removed, Deyayani took the first
opportunity of letting Yayti know that she would not prove an _
unwilling bride.
The king reminded her that she was the daught-er
of a priest, and he of a lower social order, saying, 'Even
your father cannot bestow you on a king, however great. ,But
finally he agreed, provided she obtained her father's consent.
Despite the sin of contracting a pratiloma marriage and creating
mixed caste Sukra consented, provided that the king remained
faithful to Devayani.
At her insistence Sukra_added that
Sarmistha should be given a separate establishment and thus not
be a possible rival.
During the ensuing years Devayani bore two
sons, Yadu and Turvasu,

and Yayati added to his dominions.

But

Sarmistha, tired of her banishment, and realizing that her youth
‘ ¸^.

_

Contd. {JD/2. o ० I

’

