Sf
६-५।

.—

SIS OF‘ THE PLAY
श्या

—

८८८

—

—

—

c:-

_-

-—

५.-

Girish Karnad has chosen a puranic myth for the milfflof his

play Yayati. Through the play he has juxtaposed two different worlds
that bound by tradition and conventionally accepted and that which

questions the past and does not have the backing of glorious tradition.
…

In the 11151 act there unfolds the गुं551०भ्रड्डहुँञ्च and rivalry of

llevyand the wife of Yayati and Sharmishtha who is her slave belonging
to the Asur clan.

The I Iatred and jealousy is caused by the fact

that Yayati is coveted by both women as well as the fact that

Sharmishtha a princess in her own right, was enslaved by the Aryan
clan.
Sharmishtha mocks at Devyani, saying that it is only because
her father pcsesses the weapon of Sanjivani that Yayati keeps

her.

Towards the end of the scene, Yayati confesses his fascination

for Sharmishtha and they consumate.

The second scene opens with the gay abandon of Sharmishtha
and Yayati, interrupted by an enraged Devyani, whose anger and
desperation knows no bounds when she sees Yayati' s passion fox

Sharmishtha.
She -leaves before the arrival of Pururaj who has come
with his newly wedded wife, 'hitralekha. Puru arrives and there
ensues a dialogue between him and Yayati in which puru mocks at the

’values and traditions uphyld by Yayati.

He does not want to go by

the unquestioned path of Yayati but wants to explore a new path not

bound by the glorified relicg of accepted conventions.
quevealed that Yayaia has asura blood in him.

It is also

TheiI conversation

15 interrupted by ShaImishtha who reveals that ShukIacharya has
laid the curse of old age on Yayti. She entreats Puru to go and ask
fox the mitigation of the course - Pqu leaves.
In Act III - Puru returns, and tells Yayati that only if someone

accepts -his old age, will he remain young - no oneiswilling to do so.
Finally puru takes on the curse.
In the FJuIth Act, the last act of the play, Chitralekha, Puru's
newly wedded brife is told of the cuIse befallen her husband, by

Though she tries to.Chitralekha
Swarnlata a slave of the Royal Palace.
cannot come to terms with the curse A SwaIanlata gives her solace
by relating her own story. Yayati enters, and ChitIalekha scorns
him fOI what he has doneand like Puru mocks at the hypocrisy of his
The play closes with
conventions. Finally she comits suicide.
Yayati giving back his youth to Puru and renunciating the world
That isthe
Pqu is left to accept and carry on his heritage.
end of the play if at all.

