दूकृहुदुदृर्द्धदुदुदृक्यास्था . mm HIS PLAYS
Girish Karnad has written five plays so far, starting with
‘Yayati' in 1960 and followed by 'Tughlaq', ‘The Dough Cock',
'Haywadna' an
and 'Anju Mallege'.
His plots aretderived from mythology except 'Tughl~
aq'- having contemporary relevance in a meaningful contex
t.
A certain
vague form of existentialism is also discernible in
his plays.

He is
certainly influenced by Shakespeare, Brecht,-A££ﬁé&%h, Camus,
Sartre

and Pinter.

Structurally each play is different from another. Tughlaq is
in epic scenes, ‘Hayawadna' is in act divisions. beginning as a folk
play; slowly turning into a drawing room tragedy and reversing into
folk
style.
'Yayati's' plot is unfolded through the technique of recapitulative narration.
For him locale is just a pretext to say that he
intends to say.
Just one bed is required to do 'Yayti'. A bare platform

is enough to perform 'Haywadna'.

There are some symbols that are found very often in his plays.
The ﬁ_rst is that of the window which occurs in 'Yayati‘. The crowd is
anoﬂier which is present only aurally in 'Yayati' but visually as well in
'Tughlaq’.

The symbol of a horse is introduced right at the beginning of

Haywadna'.
Structurally 'Yayati' is the best.‘ Every character is fully
realised and has a clearsolidity.
But in 'Tughlaq‘ except for the King
and A212 we hardly see any character growing.
In 'Hayawadna' it is a tria
angular fight among the main characters wich_is cerebral. There is hardly any physical action.
In 'Tughlaq' the action is generally reported-

coming back to ‘Yayati', we find it is full‘of fast moving action and
hthly intense and dramatic moments.

'

‘

In all his plays he is preocopied with man and his problems.
Two things seem to obsess him — youth-and old age.
The idea of transplatation also recurs in all his plays.
In 'Yayati' it is the transp~
lantation of youth.
It is the transplantatibn of physical power and
intellect in ‘Haywadna' and extension of the Xayati transplantation

without the old age.

\\

The confrontation of old and new ideas\the yearnings to reject
the beaten track and venture on something new ara repeatedly} highlighted
in his themes. Death occurs very often, either a self-annihilation,

or as murder, yet the concluding note is full of hope.

Padmini‘s son

lives and laughs at the end in 'Hayawadna‘ Yayati is purged of his aha-llow ambitiéons
and Puru regains his youth to persist
.:
\ 31d ३ persue.

