Ghazab Teri Adaa by the N80

Repertoire was a modern take on
Aristophanes' war play Lysistrata.

Director WAMAN KENURE tells
UK BANERJEE that the language of
the play is guided by gender
yst'rlmta. the famous antiawar lay. was
penned byAristophanes, who be onged lo
the band of Celebrity dramatists 7 compris»
ing Eurypidice. Aeschylus and Sophocles of
ancient Greece. Incidentally, the years were the
5th century BC. considered the “golden century" of that country. with the presence of a
galaxy of luminaries — philosophers.
theosophists. physicians and performing
artistes — who blazed the trail of European
civilisation for the millennia to come.
In theplay. Lysistrata is a strongAthenian
woman With a great sense of individual
responsibility. who plans to end the interrriinablewars between Athens and S arta. By
convening a mammoth meeting onomcn
from various cities. sheurges them to withhold
conjugal privileges from their mentolk as a
means of orcin them to abiure wars.
Although initially doubtful. the women —
including those from Sparta — agree to desist
from sexual pleasures. including even specif-

sticking to a riiotk~licroic style
Excerpts from interaction ivith the dim
tor:
[ill ALRIPT
While I was studying in the N51), I read
Artstopliancs' Lysistmtti, in which the unusur
' ca of women in ()ppthlllttn of the war
occurs, left a great impact on me The thought
of doing this play in the last 32 years came
across my mind many a time. but it remained
an aspiration
ON THE LElliRllL MOTlF
The central idea of my play is the revolt
of the women folk against the king's ambition
of ruling the worldand emerging as a supreme
power. The action of my play takes place in
‘
time and space, which revolves
around t e never-ending aspiration for the
expansion ofthc kingdom. This results in cone
stant lights on the battlefield,

tn

0N STYLISATION
In theatre productions. stylisation is usu~
all conﬁned to folk or traditional art forms
Odlate. there has been a decline in such pro~
ductions. I sincerelybelieve that thestructure,
form. device and philosophy should be indigev
nous and have a native connect. Be it a text.
image. word. sound or rhythm A their perr
caption solely depends on you. Stylisation is
prevalent in our country in all art forms. It's
5 soul of our culturalexpression. We should
rather reinterpret. re- eﬁne with the usage of
ic postures.
On another front. a Conclave of older new technique; we should rc~energise an
women seizes control of Acropolis. which make it a medium of strong expression. I've
houses the treasury for funding the wars. attempted to do it.
When a chorusofbumbling older men seeks
to burn down thebarricade-gates, they are suc- 0N DIALOGUE
My form of dialogue is not poetry, yet it's
cessfully resisted by theolder women. How the
latter's youn comrades withstand a magistc- lyrical as this lay is a stylised one and not a
rial enquiry, how Lysistrata restores order after realist play. The creative process of the play
thefracas and how eventually the womerifolk incitedme towards a new theatrical language.
My lingois‘guided by gender. In various rural
wins the day is the rest of the story.
Ghnzab Teri Adan. recently presented by dialects. In ian women often speak like men,
the NSD Repertory on behalf of the DIAF becausethere is no room for women in thelanuagc. Especially in the plural construct. the
Festival. was a more serious play inspired by
Aristophancs' bawdy comedy L ststnzm. Ably anguage remains masculine!
scripted and directed by prot‘Zssor Wamari
Kendre, NSD's present director. the theme 0N GENERAL RELEVANCE
In the last two decades. the sorts of reaappeared to be a much shorter version of the
original Greek story and far more focusscd on sons iri the name of wars have always hinted
its central tenet. namely. the sexual rebellion at a policy in which the reasons were fortituversus the war-mongering of the authorities. lated to surround and destroy the target
completely For that matter. in the warsof Iraq.
The NSD play pitted a vaingl ' us kin
रे and his chiefministcragainst their highly di » Afghanistan. Palestine. Sri Lari 1. or the wars
ciplined soldiers — always raring to go to the between North and South Korea. or within
next war. When thekings 100th war revealed Germany. there has been a reﬂection of the
untold agony of the ca lured nation's female direct involvement of the world powers
' progeny, the women In let/tilted in ﬂat! १1८- ‘ hou we were not affected directl ~. this sort
torious land: raising tllcir total embargo oh sex of insensitivity saddened me. The t ou vht of
in the marital bed or even outside, with plea- doing this play reroccurred in my mind’.
surc~womcn. Thereafter. the lay had only a
single agendaand often pallctrin theabsence 0 N | MM E Dl ATE H E L E VAN CE
This year has marked the centenary ot'tlie
of variety of events. as were present in
Aristophanes. On the other hand. its contem- First World War. M plays a tribute to the: solorary nuances were evident in the video diers who sacrifice their lives and also iii the
imagery of modern wars and their aftermath, memory ofcivilianswho became victim of that
The acting talents were of a highorder — in dust ruction.

