REMINISCENCE OF THE PAST

An unfortunate decay of Company Theatre which originated in India
in the early ninteens, seems rather superficial and false when we
try and put in a bleak effort to revive it.

A strong tradition

which reposed upon the financially secure hence of the rich businessmen, now seems to be a dream for us; the modern theatredoers.

/

That was the time when theatre was respected almost at a religious
level. The Actors was devotee of the form and masters respected.

A technically extravagant form full of gimmicks, which were received
almost truthfully by the audience and portrayed sincerely by the
theatre people.

Though the influence of the Western Theatre was

predominant the soul of Company Theatre was purely Indian.....
‘Talking of their plays would provide ample examples To all__

‘

'वृ

possible extent this theatres used Moughal and Hindu miniatures
for the postures and gestures (and they became the guide for

acting) which were ofcourse not classic but of everyday life.

The Actors'perpetual ambition of conveying every bit of his acting
made the acting more exaggerated and stylized. The language was

a part of the acting- and integral part. An actoﬂs capability
was to be decided on the basis of his dialogue delivery and
entry and exit; overall on his appearence.
५

It will be of interesting and ofcourse for us wonder to read that
and usual company had its own people numbering from 200 to 300
which included Actors, Technicians and other people. They were
proud of their company, companyfs status, settings, sceneries,

properties...... Where all these have gone...to the Blues?
Indian Cinema came into the'setting' and it was easy to give‘
a better gimmick on screen than on stage. And it was also easy
for the audience to accept it. To be more popular the-company
came down to arena for a direct combat. But all in vain....
Thus facing a constant decadence.

Our effort is.not to produce an exact play of that kind but just
to go into the reminiscence of the past theatre and १0 explore the
sprit of those theatre and experienced them.

