VARIETY

The play's dlnctor.
Salim Allf. with his wite
Lubnn Salim. one at the
actors In the play

complexand so we ham to simply it for the audi-

Comedy of Errors. Chukka!" Chalaaye

ence — it 15 easier to Show a double role in films.
Gulzarscab and l have worked on almost 10plays
together and l believethe reason he likesworking with meis that heknows that I have immense
respectfor the text he has written.“
Lubnaalso found performing in Delhia gratifying experience. “The Delhi audience understands theatze. Also, it was a madhouse during
the rehearsals which went on for almost live
months. I think became we had so much fun
preparingforthe play. we were able
to tell thestory better. " Shruti, who
thoughtshe played the“most shalt. 'l
r
'
jacketedcharacter in the comedy . Abha and MH Dalmla
was happyto beperforming in “theatxe, whee legends have performed". Joshi had also come to see the play. and he told
human: mitm hain. aur isllb'e (या
While Swahandsaid that the credit us. “G
for the sums of the playgum to the hum unki kahanipe baneLa play 1wdeklmeaqye
director; Zeeshan said, “As actors. hain. Also, in Delhi. I think the theatre culttue
ic '
'
dellurlha' about ~ a A
gy, and it was wonderfulto beon th~ back. whena lot of goodproductions used to be
staged. and then we saw a decline. Now, theatre
atjourney of two hours with them
Seniorp0l itician M urliManohar is regaining ltslost glory"

Ghanchakkar is the play on which

Gulzar‘s ﬁlm Angoor is based. and Delhiitesenjoyed thelaugh riot inunensety when it wasstaged
here recently. The audience let out belly laughs
every few minutes during the play. which was
staged in association with the Times of India.
The twohour play revolves around Ashok (Mo
hammed Zeeshan Ayyub)and Bahadur (Swat-rand
Kirkire), who are separatedin childhood during
a sea voyager One grows up to be-

come a married man living with his
wife Sudha (Lubna Ari!)and s ister»
in-law ’I‘anu (Shruti Seth). while the
other remains abachelor: living with
hismother: Both of them have aservant named
adur. When they
meet in adulthood. confusion ensues
becauseof mistaken identities.
When we asked Salim Am“, the
director: if it was achallenge to direct something that a veteran like

Sh ruti Seth

Gulzar has written. the National

८,७८४; ३

School of Drama alumnus said. “The real chalngewas to keep itsﬂow intact The contentis

(lapth mini William Shakespeare's A

~_ #4 1१- णा' … 1३८ ८

ﬁurti Manohar Joshi
. Pratvush.Palva@tlmesyup.oqni 77777 if

4

u \mwss/

