TH E AUTHOR

D oodhnath Singh, born on 1 7,

Consequently, there was a sharp

October, 1936 in a village in

attack on his entire story-struc-

Sobandha, Ballia District, Uttar

ture. The rnalinfluence of these

Pradesh, in an ordinary farmer's

stories has been that in its imita-

family, did his M.A. (Hindi Litera-

tive-writing several new short-

ture), from Allahabad University.

story writers in Hindi got ruined.

He is currently teaching at

He brought out a journal,
'Pakshdhar' in 1976. However,

Allahabad University.
An unusual, difficult and

this was during the period of

chaotic experience in his life,

Emergency and the journal was

coupled with an interaction with

censored. As a result, only one

Marxism, provided an opportu-

issue could be brought out.

nity to Doodhnath Singh to real-

experience and work has been

Published Works:
1 . 'Sapat Chehre wala aadrni'

wide, ranging from the village

2. 'Sukhant‘

and town right up to a metropolis

3. 'Pehla Kadam'

l'rke Calcutta. He lived in Cal-

4. 'Ek doosre Gandhi ki Hatya'

cutta from 1959—63. Due to fi-

5. 'Apni Shatabdi ke naam'

nancial hardships and an irregu-

6. 'Surang se lautte huway'

lar living, he become a victim of

7. 'Ek aur bhi aadmi hai'

tuberculosis atan early age. Then,

8. 'Nirala-Aatmhanta Aastha'

for one year, he languished in

9. 'Uchit-Anuchit'

sanatoriurns and hospitals.

10. 'Yamgatha'

ize his creativity. His field of

Photo: Pradeep Saurabh

If we venture out of the great romantic facade of Kalidasa, then there

is a great deal in the Pururva- Urvashi myth to. which a new meaning
can be given. At this juncture, Pururva, the ’destroyer of yajna ’,
appears warring aga inst the developed exp loita tive system of Vedic society. In this war Lord Indra, the priests, the saints, the kings and
Gandharvas—all seem united against Pururva. The reason is clear, the
life-style of the ruling classes of Vedic society. The name of this lifeEssentially a short-story

Besides these, he has represtyle is ‘yajna‘ the ritual. Pururva and his teacher—the non-Aryan

writer and a poet, Singh evinces

sented Hindi writing in the Pen-

interest in prose-writing as well.

guin collections entitled 'New

Bra hmin Vasistha—rise against this ritualistic system. The subject is—
Agni, Urvash i and people ’5 rights. In other words the class war, here,

His

first

s to ry ,

'Chaukor

Writing in lndia' and 'A Death in
against the connivance of the kings and priests, is absolutely clear. It

Chhayachitra', was published in

Delhi '.
is because of this that the Rig— Veda describes Pururva as the 'friend of

1957. 'Raktpat', 'Reechh', 'Pra-

death ' and the Brahmanical texts call him ’yajna destroyer’ and mad
tishodh', 'Chorus', etc. created a

('Nashta-Sangyah '). In this way, 'Yamgatha' deals with the Rig- Veda
stir in the world of Hindi fiction.

mythical world, and exposes from within the so-called 'Hon murder'
These stories gave such a jolt to
by the ruling classes of their opponents. This is the fundamental
the fine taste of Hind i readers and

objective of this play in our contemporary world.
critics that the veneer of their
code of conduct lay exposed.

Doc 0 H N ATH SI N c H

