TH E LITTLE
ﬁCTOKé CLUB
As a part of our 25th anniversary celebrations, we are happy to have begun a

number of Little Actors Clubs, located in different neighbourhoods of Del hi .These
have been started because we at Ruchika believe that there is increasingly a
need for a new kind of relationship between the arts and young people. It is an
overstated fact that the chi ld’s exposure to creativity through actual participation

in dance, drama, music, art etc. forms an essential part of h is/her developmental
process. However in an urban centre such as Delhi, the availability of adequate
facilities to make this possible, are few and far between. As a result over a period
of time, young people tend to look on the arts as entertainment, as seeing the

artist as being a different kind of individual. There is an acute need at the present,
therefore, to change this kind of thinking, especially in the field of theatre where
because the activity is a group one dealing with tangible living problems, the
growth process of the individual is not secondary, but really primary.
The Little Actors Club provides a 35 session program run by experts covering an
extensive range of drama activities. Movement, acting and improvisation, music
and elocution, creative writing and expression, art based activities and mask

making... all these help the child gain in self confidence and self expression,
improve group-based interaction and put the child in touch with his/his own
creativity.

Our first production ’Alibaba & Alladin’ was a huge success, bringing on stage 57
members of the Little Actors Club, with 10 of their disabled peers from Astha. The
production first staged in Aug 97 was presented at the Ashok Hotel in April ’98
and subsequently at the India Habitat Centre and at the BC. Pal Auditorium. We
hope to present it once again next year, making it a classic of contemporary

ch i ldren’s theatre.
Our second production, presented in collaboration with the British Council, was
’Man Born to be King’ and was based on the exhibition The Enduring Image. It ran
for six shows in Dec ’97 and was greatly appreciated. Last year we presented an
original musical fantasy by Madhu l i ka Saran, ’Raunaqpur ke Bachche’ which was

a great success. In December ’98 in collaboration with the British Council we
presented ’Telling Wilde Tales’ an evening of three stories by Oscar Wilde. This
event was accompanied by an inter-school elocution and art competition. In

addition we conducted the Little Actors Club workshop in Amity International
School in both their Saket & Noida branches. Congratulations to their far-sightedness!
Ruch i ka’s next session of Little Actors Club workshops is from October to December,

culminating in a major production, ’The Snow Queen’ Register now to avoid
disappointment later.
Call Radhika or Feisal 641 9862 for further details

