i O r) . . .
I am a cub. My name is ....... I think । don’t know, call me anything you like. I live in Cir forest in
Gujarat. । was born a week ago, and you know something, this world is strange. For example when

l was in my rnom’s tummy it was always dark and scary but in this strange world for a few hours it’s
hot and very bright, but gradually turns cool and dark like my mom’s tummy! Another example is
that when my father goes away empty mouthed he comes back full. He usually has something in
this mouth which looks so disgusting. Well you know something, the taste of this disgusting thing is
very good. Oh! I’m getting late for my hunting lessons. Bye, see you next time.
................... Swa pn i l

I’m the king of the jungle so don’t take punga. I’m big and hairy. But I’m all alone, since my pride
left me when l was born. So that makes me an unusual lion. I also have a friend as a gazelle. But I
need someone of my own kind. It doesn’t matter how he is, deaf, dumb or blind but no one comes

through this jungle. So । don’t mind if you accompany me. It’ll be a favour you see.
It was a very hot day. The sun was shining brightly over the pride of the rulers of the jungle who

were having this royal repast. The air was rising out of the tropical ground. A herd of gazelles
happily munches the grass a safe distance away from the pride. As the sun descends to the African
horizon, the pride becomes energetic.
Immediately the males are on guard, while the females go for the kill of a baby black-buck. The kill
is successful.

......................Arnan

It was the will of the lord
To make rnua the king.

He gave me a huge body
To do my own thing

Because it was the will of the lord
To make rnua the king.

He gave rnua the time to rest and laze
l waste my time in all possible ways
Because it was the will of the lord
To make rnua the king.
He gave rnua special claws and eyes
To stalk a deer till it dies
Because it was the will of the lord
To make rnua the king.
He gave rnua the motto of not giving up

Even if I don’t succeed, I try, try again.
Because it was the will of the lord
To make rnua the king.
.................... Uday Raj Anand

