DIRECTORS) NOTE...
Each production of the Little Actors Club is a voyage of discovery for cast and crew. Work
on this evening’s show began in April with us first of all exploring the idea of ’camoflague’
in animal life, with the Little Actors Club members researching and designing the many fine
plates that are displayed in the lobby. Working on a circular format, recycling an old dinner
plate from home was an exciting educational experience! Then improvisations began on
the bare story line of the play — creating the characters and situations - the lonely jungle lion
in the midst of city bred lions, (not unlike a new child in school) themes of captivity and

freedom, exploring the language of the pocketmaar and of the ’cooleshwar’ Akshay Kumar,
researching animal habits of snakes, lions and elephants for creative writing exercises.
The touchstone was always the childs own experience - from exploring their own body
parts with eyes closed (and some of these poems are elsewhere in this brochure) to exploring
having fur instead of skin, restricted vision, being nocturnal ......

And then deciding on a stage design, how to depict animals through costumes (without
using body suits!) how to make the puppets, evolve the movement... ! One Cool Cats theme
of the friendship of man and animal, of letting animals roam free instead of being restricted
in zoos and circuses was one we all felt concerned about. This play forms part of our
ongoing attempt to create original material and break away from the fossilized frozen western
fairy tale format of most chi ldren’s theatre (often deep frozen by the Disney associates!) We

feel that children’s theatre should deal with contemporary issues (even if it is through the
eyes of Oscar Wilde-as our last production was) in the spoken language of the child. The
play must entertain even as it educates. Those of you who saw our production of ’Alibaba
and Alladin’ will remember the consumerist culture of Delhi reflected in Kasim’s family
there, as others will recall the impact of the horrors of war on a young ruler — Alexander in
our production of ’Man Born to be King’ in December 1997.
We have tried to work at breaking away from many of the cliches of childrens theatre - so
our ’pious’ (yet astharnatic) snakes are maniacal and disturbed, as probably animals in
captivity are; the lion-tamer is not a character to be looked up to, but rather to be despised
- and of course the clown has forgotten how to laugh !
In keeping with our belief in Ruchika that we need to create material which provides positive
assertive rolemodels for girls and women, all our three productions : Alibaba and Alladin,
Raunaqpur ke Bachche and One Cool Cat have in their leading roles a girl, rather than a
boy. Even in our next production The Snow Queen, it is Gerda who goes in search of her
brother Kay who has been kidnapped. This is in direct contrast to the traditional heroine of
the fairy tale, who either falls asleep waiting for Prince Charming, or waits for him to arrive
with the correct slipper !
And in case people feel we are being too politically correct, too goody-goody, don’t forget
that Kasim’s consumerist wife in Alibaba and Alladin and the cruel Miss Chatpati in One
Cool Cat are women too !
—— Feisal Alkali

