MArLA ANCH A i.
‘Maila Aanchal’ is the famous novel of eminent
writer phanishwar Nath
Renu This novel of ‘Renu’ has been presented
here in Bidesia style.

Maila Aanchal is the story of Purnea, the most
backward district in Bihar.
The life of common people in this area, situ
ated on the bank of river koshi’,
usually 'emains paralysed not only by the n
atural calamities, but also they have
to encounter the attack of those forces which exp
loits the common villagers life.
The play is stretched from a period, when Indi
a was about to be declared
independent, to a period when it was struggling wi
th the fall in its political
and social values after independence. The s
cript presents a vivid description
of struggle between the villager’s culture and th
eir consciousness which helps
in developing a faith in values and transcribes the
morality and sentiments of
life Ram Kirpal Singh, Vishwanath Prasad an
d Ramkhelawan Yadav-all the
three persons represent the three groups of villager
s based on Caste and quantum wealth. of‘ All the three persons are guided by
their own motives and these
their own means to achieve them. The entire villa
ge revolves around these
men. One stream of this play includes Mahan
tha Seva Das, Ramdas and
Laxrni Dasin. The hopes, desires and world of lov
e of a woman have been

portrayed through the life of Laxmi, alongwith, th
e existence of widespread corruption in the abbey of followers
of Kabir‘s revolutionary
thinkings.
The characters of Baldev and Kalicharan etc.
represent
the scattered political values of this country after
independence. This novel
while portraying the corrupt scenes of politics which is al
oof from the life of
a man and his sentiments, points us out towa
rds the up-coming horrible
problems which we are likely to face in future.

Out of these, the love story

of Kamali and Prashant while portraying the balanc
ed form of extreme love
and morale, reveals manifold aspects of lif
e which act as catalyst for the
ﬁghting journey of our life.
The whole story of Maila Aancnal has been
presented in the Bidesia style
full of theatrical devices, old values, movements
and visual elfects. Bidesia
is the condensed form of interpreting the fo
lk life in its entirety. The social
structure of villages in Bihar has got its shape i
n this creation (story) and
Bidesis has been helpful to express these fe
elings. By the use of folk.culture
and tradition songs of Bihar it has been
easy to cover the entire range of
Maila Aanchal.
The drama ‘Maila Aanchat’ is presented
in Bhojpuri and Hindi, while
Sutradhar, Nati and Vidusak (clown) spe
ak in, and the narrative songs are in
Bhojpuri, the main drama has its lang
uage in Hindi, which is taken from
original novel ‘Maila Aanchal’ written by Renu

