M at i G a r i
Bidesia—the folk theatre form is no longer strange to the Indian stage.
After nation wide presentation of ‘Amali’ (writer —Hrishikesh Sulabh/Director ——
Satish Anand) on the modern Stage, this form’s unbelievable communicability,

the ability of its theatrical nuances to reconstruct and give profound descriptions

of life and the immense possibilities that it holds for the development of
contemporary theatre consciousness attracted the Indian theatre people, the
critics and the wide audience . Mati Gari’ is the second in the series of presen:
tation of Bidesia theatrical form.

In the last few years, Indian theatre activists have been looking for ways
and means to communicate usefully

their society, time and life through the

medium of theatre forms associated with their local and folk lif'e; traditional
classical theatre forms , and the ancient and rich .sanskrit theatre. This search
is the sponteneous result ofthe desire to render lif'e richer with sensitivity, progressive values and scientiﬁc outlook. These presentations of ‘Bedesia’ form
are our humble attempts towards search for lrieaningful theatre.

‘Bedesia’ is ’ originally the name given to a theatre form created by Bhikhari
”I hakur and depicts with intensity the agony of Bihar's masses, This creation of

Bhikhari Thakur—the artist of the masses—and its presentation became very
pcpular among the people for its coumunicability and humanitarian nature and
Bihar’s “Launda Naach” was given the name of ‘Bidesia’. Bidesia isa indegeneous
theatre form which has amalgamated into itself Bengal’s ‘Jatra’~-theatre form

and ‘Baul’ dance; Assam’s ‘Bihu’ dance and ‘Ankiya, Play; Orisa’s Das
Kathiya, and ‘Noutanki,’ ‘Kirtania’, ‘Bidapat’ dance,‘Hurka’ dance, ‘Pakhavaj’
dance and numerous fables, rituals and folk songs, The intelligent clown and

‘Bharat Vakya of Sanskrit theatre are also depicted in a new and more meaning ful f'orm.
Mati Gari is bassd on Shudrak’s Sanskrit Play, ‘Mrichkatikam. Shudrak
was the only writer of his times who wrote on the then prevelent administration. Bhasa’s ‘Daridram Charudattam’ is a twin piece. Charudutta is en-

dowed with superlative human qualities and exceptionally good looks. Charity
is his virtue. This young man, endowed witn good character, love and respect

