( 13 )
becomes a pauper because of his extremely charitable nature. Vasantsena is
a prostitute. She is the embodiment of beauty and sensuousness. Adept in the
art of music and dance and laden with qualities of love, humility and regard,
this young lady, Vasantsena, falls in love with Charudutta on the ‘Kamotsava’
day. King Palak’s brother in law, Shakar is deeply attracted towards Vasant—
scna Even though foolish, cunning and Characterless’ he has the backing of
kingship, administration and unlimited wealth, But Vasantsena rejects the
wealth and luxury off'ered by Shakar and accepts the sincere love of pennyless
Charudutta.

Once, Shakar follows “Vasantsena and she, in breathlessness, hides in the
house of Charudatta, On being recognised, she pretends to keep her Jewellery
with him as a deposition. This jewellery is stolen form Charudutt’s house by
a young man name Sharvilak, He is in love with 'Vasantsena’s companion cum
Servant, Madanika. He wants to get Madanika releived from Vasantsena by

giving this jewellery. Madanika recognises the jewellery. Both pretend as if
Charudutta has returned the Jewellery. But Vasantsena sees thrc ugh the ploy but
releases Madanikea. Her this generosity speaks volumes about her character,
Here, Charudutta is greatly pained by the robbery. His wife gives him her
‘Ratnavali’ which is taken to Vasantsena in place of the jewellery by Maitraiya.
Vasantsena’s love for Charudutta deepens at this and she goes to meet him.
Their love breakes all barriers of the body and touches pinnacles of ecstacy.
Vasantsena wants to return the fRatnavli’ to Charudutt’s wife but she refuses to
take it back. Both get lntangled in a cold war. Meanwhile. Charudutt’s son

Rohsen comes crying with the governess, Radanika. He wants a golden cart to

play with but his poor father cannot provide it. Vasantsena keeps all hers
jewellery in the clay cart for Rohsen and he is happy.
King Palak's subjects are very unhappy under the misrule and exploitaton

of his and his brother in law,

Shakar’s reign. (30p Kumar

Aryak is

imprisoned. He emerges as the hero of the common man. Sharvilak is his friend

and he rescues him from behind the bars. Palak’s soldiers chase Aryak. Vasantsena has to go to a garden to meet Charudutta. Due to a misunderstanding
Aryak sits in the cart sent for Vasantsena and Vasantsena in the one sent
for Aryak, On the way, Aryak’s cart it stepped by soldiers named Chandnak
and Veerak. Chandnak supports Aryak and lets him pafs. On this, he has a
squbble with Veerak. Aryak reaches Charudutt’s garden. Charudutt cuts his
handcufs and helps him, Vasantsena reaches Shakar’s garden. He confesses

his love for her but she rejects him. On this, he tries to murder her, His ‘Vit’
and ‘Chet’ both oppose the move, ‘vit’ joins Aryak and ‘Chet is imprisoned by

