( 23 )
The conditions of life were so torturous that the newly couple had to face
the most difﬁcult situations of life. At this turning point of the play it
is show being enacted that frustrated with exploition of labour and con-

sequently difﬁcult conditions of life, Ramesar decided to go to a distant
place (Calcutta)

to earn

his

livelihood.

This

decision

of

Ramesar

had the impact of his friend’s advice Bachana. The decision of Ramesar

to go to Calcutta is opposed by his old mother and Wife Amali. The
mother narrated to his son that under such compelling circumstances his
father had gone to a distant place and never returned. She was then pregnant. And she spent her long span of life in futile waiting. She also
expressed her doubt that the Zamindars of the village, like of Mahadev Rai

& Abrar Khan would get angry if he left the village. Amali also tries to
make her husband understand the more diﬂicult situations. She will have
to face in his absence but he listens to none and leaves the village.
The narrator renders the conditions of Amali in poorvi Alaap style——
APANA JHOPARIA MAIN HAIN KE KAWARIA” In this song
the Sutradhar tells that Amali sheds tears in absence of her husband
thinking that had his husband been here she would have put on the
cosmetics of his choice. The entire village is full of people but none of
them is close to the heart of Amali. Immediately, after this Poorvi Alaap
the Chorus sings a song in Jhoomar style—“PIYA NIPAT NADANWA;

HE SAJANI”. In this song it is told that the husbtrnd of Amali is a fool
that hearing his newly wife he has gone to Calcutta Still Amali renders
her husband from the core of her heart and spends somehow her days and
long mighty waiting for her husband.

The home does not bring any

comfort to her mind and heart. After lhis chorus. Amali herself renders

a song—“CHADHALI JAWANI,,,”, which has been. taken from the
original Bidesia play, writien by its founder Bhikhari Thakur. The helplessness in sending the message of the heroine’s inner emotion is depicted
through the nature, which in turn, depicts the dying desires and forth—
coming difficult time. The Sutradhar commentry on the situation the
audience have witnessed uptil now. Amali approaches a landlord of the
village Mahadev Rai for loan. On this point a songs in Birha style is
rendered by Chorus (Samaji) in two bits which narrates the decaying
conditions of Amali’s life, her labour being eXploited and the conditions

of Amali’s life are compelling her to be in between the lion’s jaws; Amali
ultimately goes to Mahadev Rai, asks for a loan to fetch medicines for
her ailing mother. The narrator appears and expresses his doubts through
the medium of a song :

”KAANPE AMALI KE CHAA' ”IA. . . . . .”

