( 17 )
landlords want to take possession of the land and both add to communal

tension and creates a situation of confrontation Munshijee joins hands
afterwards. He has to announce his candidature in the forthcoming elec-

tion and communal

clash

may affect

adversely.

He throws a new

move. He holds Amali resPonsible for this and using his political wit he
brings Mahadev Rai and Abrar Khan to the point that a school building
will be constructed over the land and Amaii be outcasted of the Village.
Bachana, friend of Ramesar, opposses and is killed by the Musclemem of
the two landlords. Opposition is symbolically crushed and the villagers
keep mum out of fear. Amali is compelled to leave the village. She sings
a song in Sorathi style, SUB KAR GINIGIA HO RAMA SUKHAWA

SE BHARAL NU RE KI which tells that the nest Was blown by the
wind and the entire village was a silent spectator. She asks a question as
to how long this exploitation will continue ‘2
And the play ends with a choral song Bharat Vakaya SISIK SISIK
KAR JANI SUB LOGAVA by Samajee (chorus) which gives answer to
Amali’s question that so long people will tolerate the suﬁ'erings, they will
have to be in such a condition of torture and exploitation, Learn, 0,
peple, to stop the banishment of Amali and then you can bre 1th in a
comfortable air, In order to remove the death-trap you will have to move
your hands and put strength to them. With this optimistic note, the
play ends.
The Playwright Hrishikesh Sulabli : Birth (1956). Initial education in village
‘Laheji of siwan Janpad (Bihar). Stories
Published in all prestigious dailies and
magazines of Hindi. Engaged in independ-

ent journalism for some time and since
ten years, active on theatre in Patna.
In 1980-81 did research and documentation

of the colloquiel 0nd folk culture, art and
dialects of the dense interiors of Easter

(Madhya Pradesh). Now working on traditional and folk theatre forms of Bihar and

is the pioneer in play writing in ‘Bidesia’
form for theatre.

n
pa
ya
ig
‘V
the
th
wi
ive
cut
exe
on
si
is
sm
an
Tr
:
t
sen
At pre

Prasaran Seva’, AIR. Patna.

Publications 2 ‘Patharkat' (Collection of short stories) and
‘Amali’ (Bidesia theatre f'orm).
Under Public ations : ‘Mati Gari’ (based on ‘Mrichhakatikam’__~
Bidesia theatre f'orm) ‘Jangal gatha’ (novel) ;
Kathadhara, (edited) and Bihar ke lok
natya roop.

