MILLENNIUM 7 ’ ' हैं ' ' ३

-‘ is like our ch i ld '
५- भि

Excerptsfrom an interview with Kuchipudi dancer's Raja-Radha Reddy
who talks about the beauty of artforms and guru shaishya parampara
watching videos on television or on Youtube.

A DI TI MIS HRA
1 he great artistes
and legends, Raja
and Radha Reddy
learned choreography in the 1960’s. The Reddys
were amongst the twenty two
star dancers from across the
world who were invited to perform at The All Star Ballet Gala Festival.
They are also the recipients of Padma Shree
and Padma Bhushan, Sangeet Natak Aka—
demi and Nritya Choodamani Awards.
The ‘Parampara Series’- National Festival of Music and Dance, which is
conducted just before the withering autumn, has stood ﬁrm for
the last 19 years and is now
synonymous with Delhi’s
annual cultural scene.
I Over time, ‘Parampara’
has blended concerts
का V by presenting classi—
cal geniuses under
creative themes
३ giving uniquer
fresh approach
to
otherwise
traditional arts
forms.

guru shishya parampara should be followed
which means a guru should be everything for
his shishya and every student must follow his
or her guru.

५

५ ९ हं ८ ३.३I J»1८८1५७८५८६८७,ब्बीहंपृटुग

्निदृदृणीपृ'¸ .mw

.

दृ

7'

that India is losing out in its traditional
danceforms?
Each dance form has its own beauty. Be it
classical or Western, each form represents the
culture and ethos of a particular region or a
group of people. The presentation of Indian
dance styles in ﬁlms, has exposed the range of
dance forms in India to a global audience. We
don’t copy from international dancing styles
like salsa, jazz or any other. Our style ofdancing is original and graceful. India is not losing
out in its traditional dance forms. In earlier
times dancers just showcased their talents.
But now, with time, the styles of dancing have
evolved such that there is more ofshowing»
off instead of putting forth the actual talent.

What do you With experience spanning over more than
have to say ﬁve decades, what do you think is the most
about the neededfactor in practisingsuch danceforms?
Dance and music are of great importance
westernised
danceforms? to the culture of India. Both arts are extremely
Do you think old and have close links not only with each
other but also with religion. In my opinion,
if a person wants to learn the actual dance
forms then he or she must always learn from
the gurus. You cannot learn through media by

What do you have to say about the young
talent ofyour institute?
Natya 'I'arangini, our institute in Delhi,
is popular globally. Here, we not only teach
students our style of dancing but we also
groom them into beautiful people, teach them
about the values, our great heritage and how
to respect elders. They also learn the art of
carrying themselves as conﬁdent citizens of
our country.
Do you see a decline in number ofstudents
interested in the classical danceforms?
No. Lots ofchildren come to our institute.
I feel that students are developing more interest in classical dance forms these days.
How wouldyou describe yourjoumey sofar?
Established 30 years ago, Natya Tarangini
is like our child that has now grown into
something much bigger. We sacriﬁced a lot
in our times and our hard work paid off.
Today, our names have become synonymous
with Kuchipudi.
Please tell us something about your upcoming performance in the 20th edition of
‘Parampara Series’.
We hand pick our artistes. We believe in
quality and bring great artistes to the stage
so that more and more Rasikas (Art lovers)
can enjoy and appreciate the varied, beautiful forms of art. This year, we will showcase
performances of the younger generation by Yamini and Bhavana Reddy, who are also
Kuchipudi dancers.
. .८

_ दृ

'

