The two of them had begun to run. Sakina’s dupatta had slipped to the

ground and he had stopped to pick it up and she had said: ‘Father, leave it.’
He could feel a bulge in his pocket. It was a length of cloth. Yes, he
recognized it. It was Sakina’s dupatta, but where was she?
Other details were missing. Had he brought her as far as the railway
station? Had she got into the carriage with him? When the rioters had stopped
the train, had they taken her with them?
All questions. There were no answers. He wished he could weep, but tears
would not come. He knew then that he needed help.
A few days later, he had a break. There were eight of them, young men
armed with guns. They also had a truck. They said they brought back women
and children left behind on the other side.
He gave them a description of his daughter. ‘She is fair, very pretty. No,
she doesn’t look like me, but her mother. About seventeen. Big eyes, black
hair, a mole on the left cheek. Find my daughter. May God bless you.’
The young men had said to Sirajuddin: ‘If your daughter is alive, we will
find her.’

And they had tried. At the risk of their lives, they had driven to Amritsar,
recovered many women and children and brought them back to the camp, but
they had not found Sakina.
On their next trip out, they had found a girl on the roadside. They seemed
to have scared her and she had started running. They had stopped the truck,
jumped out and run after her. Finally, they had caught up with her in a field.
She was very pretty and she had a mole on her left cheek. One of the men had
said to her: ‘Don’t be frightened. Is your name Sakina?’ Her face had gone
pale, but when they had told her who they were, she had confessed that she

was Sakina, daughter of Sirajuddin.
The young men were very kind to her. They had fed her, given her milk
to drink and put her in their truck. One of them had given her his jacket so
that she could cover herself. It was obvious that she was ill-at—ease without
her dupatta, trying nervously to cover her breasts with her arms.
Many days had gone by and Sirajuddin had still not had any news of his
daughter. All his time was spent running from camp to camp, looking for her.

