NA DlR SHA H

The play depicts the time and life of an era. The Mughal
empire so laboriously built by Babar reached the pinnacles of glory

under Akbar.

This is one of the most interesting and meaningful

period in Indian history. But by the time Aurangzeb died it had
lost its elan or the very basis of its existence. It was the collective
failure of a system which refused to learn from history. As George
“Those who cannot remember the past are
Santayana says:
condemned to repeat it."
Muhammad Shah Rangila represented a time that had outlived

its life. So it is futile to pick, analyse, or to use the popular phrasepsychoanalyse his brain or actions. He was the victim of his
environment and thus merely the instrument of his and his regime's
destruction.

How an em-

And that is what interested the author.

pire that rode the high heavens fell into the abysmal depths of
misery and oblivion.
Nadir Shah

Mughal Empire.

inflicted the blow that

ultimately crushed

But as Sir Jadu Nath Sarkar says :

the

"The Persian

conquerer merely revealed to the world a fact accomplished long
before. He broke the spell under which men had been regarding a
gorgeously dressed corpse as a strong man."
At the time of the invasion Muhammad Shah was occupied

in

his pursuit of women, song and dance. The King-makers were as
usual busy in intrigue, plot and counter—plot. The nobility and the
courtiers had no time for anything else except to make their fortunes by means fair or foul~the fOuler the better——and to gaze at
stars to follow the one that looked brightest at the moment. For—
tune—tellers and

sooth-sayers flourished.

counted for nothing.

oppression.

The mass of the people

They groaned under injustice, corruption and

All this while ominous clouds were gathering at the

north—west frontier ready to burst out in a deluge that was to sub—
merge Mughal India.
When Nadir Shah had captured Lahore and was ready to race

on to Delhi, the court at Delhi at last woke up from a long slumber.
But it was a yawning man pitching forward drunkenly.

The inevitable happened.

the course of just a few hours.
to the other.

The Mughal army was destroyed

In fact, between one

The Mughal army was faction—ridden and

in

prayer time
leaderless.

The stalwarts—the Hindu Rajputs—whom Akbar forged by his wise

