[The New Republic, o newsweekly published from Runchi interviewed Vinod Kumar
in its issue of June 5-, I 976. Here we reproduce a part of the interview.]

Vinod Kumar, to put it mildly is a much maligned figure
in Ranchi.

Cynics say that at twenty seven years of age

that in itself is adequate achievement but cynic or no cynic,
few people can ignore this versatile young man who has,
within a very short span of time, carved out a niche for
himself in the dramatic crrcles In Ranchi.
He prefers to call himself a rebel who writes and puts
up plays of youth frustration. I n his plays one can discern

a conscious and deliberate attempt at breaking away from
traditional norms. He says that he strives to capture and
project reality ' .

Hailing from a well to do family, he resides at Hinoo and
works as a lecturer in English in the Jagannath Nagar
College.

in English.

Though he writes mostly in Hindi, he also writes

According to his own version he has written

25 plays, 50 stories, 100 poems and about 25 essays.

An

impressive list fora twenty seven year old. Among those
peeple involved in the dramatic scene here, there are only

0

You say that you write plays of youth frustration.

What do you exactly mean by that ?
A—Today, a sense of defeat and cynicism prevails
among the youth. Frustration because of unemployment,
social maladies, poor education and examination system
have been instrumental in introducing these traits.
O.-—Don't you think that instead of simply highlighting
this state of affairs, it would be more constructive if you
also put across certain remedies ?
A—Yes,

dies.

l have not been very clear in suggesting reme-

But personally I feel that the youth must become

more politically conscious; conscious of their rights
respOnsibillties for I blame the political system in
country even for our economic and social ills.
0— For quite some years now you have been putting
plays in Ranchi and elsewhere, what impact have they
on the people here.

and
our
up
had

It is

A—The most visible sign is that of an expanding audience. But that is not enough. I would like to put up Street
corner plays, say, on the Albert Ekka Chowk in order to

difficult to say who outnumber whom ! One only hOpes that

involve the masses but one problem or the other has always

this interview does iustice to him !

cropped up.

two kinds of pe0ple, one who gush over his plays and the
other, equally irrationally. deride and scoff at them.

O-Why do you write plays .7

A—To give vent to my feelings and thoughts. Plays
are more effective to convey these feelings as the communion with the audience is easier on the stage than through
- the lifeless pages of a book.

The masses here would much rather see a

movie then spend money for watching a play

That creates

problems for the development of a professional drama movement, like the one in Bengal.

Another

problem is that

I put up serious plays and the probability of such plays to
0
flop is greater.

