[ The New Republic, a news weekly, published from Ranchi organised a discussion on theatre movement
in Runchi in its issue of, Jan. 26, 1977.
Here we publish Vinod Kumar’s Views on theatre movement
in Ranchi. ]

Void in "theatre word' in the city. To give a lead to the theatre

Only ' if productions are low budget. Considering the size
of the city. the achievement is not small, but it must be

movement I formed a group 'Rangayan' consisting mostly of

accelerated.

youths.

This is 1977. I am happy after 'Rangayan' several
groups have been formed. We require a few more groups
with fresh ideas. I'm against regirnentation and polarisation.

Regarding my activities I've been staging committed
plays. I'm no entertainer. I want constant communication between the actors and the audience. I wish to arouse collective

‘Let Hundred Flowers

consciousness. For me theatre is a workshop of ideas. of
late I’ve realised that we must reach the audience. we must

The absence of 'theatre atmosphere' is due to lack of

talk in their language. Considering this I'm soon planning
to stage plays in the halls of schools and also on the
streets.
I know the confrontations involved but I'm prepared to

During the early part of 1972, I realised the Complete

Let there be explosion of ideas.
Bloom'.

Consciousness among people. Even educated people do not

want to buy cards or tickets for plays. The influence of
cinema is very strong. Development of theatre movement
depends on the proper education and involvement of people.
The audltoriurns are too costly.

We require cheap auditori-

encounter them as the lines of Robert Frost inspire me"

and miles to go before l sleep."

urns with good arrangements. Theatre movement can prosper

A , N EWS
Vinod Kumar, 3 young dramatist from Ranchi attended a course on 'Film Appreciation' at Film and T.V. Institute

of India. Poona, organised under the agies of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 8 Film Archive of India in
the month of June/July '78.

0

