कतरन

PRODUCTION PRACTICE
Many people imagine that rehearsals should begin with
a comperhensive expository lecture by the director to his

evolution of a performance through three to four weeks’
rehearsal is an organic pr0cess, and nothing can hurry it.

actors. They think the actors should be given a detailed
picture of their characters. clear directions as to the style in
which the play is written and full indications of his own
intentions and attitude to the script. etcetera There are
indeed directors who actually do this. and their actors have
no doubt found the experience extremely interesting. Yet
in fact. a lecture of this kind is quite valueless in its effect
on the result. and the director might just as well save his
breath. The actor will listen politely : he will attend with
genuine interest if the lecture is good enough. 'But he will

The director who does not realize this. and who tries to
force the pace by explanations. suggestions and the prese-

listen with that side of himself which has nothing to do
with his being an actor; the lectur cannot help him to begin
to discover how to play his part. because none of the processes leading to this have yet begun. He 'will probably
discount nearly all that a director says at this stage. and will

be grOping hopefully yet uncertainly towards a meeting
point between himself and the character. The gradual

ntation of ideas, however good, before the time is ripe. does

not understand actors. and will never be of use to them.
The first ten days of rehearsal are a time of great uncer-

tainty for the actor.

The production will suffer not a whit if

the director too is 'uncertain' at this stage—that is. uncertain
about the same sorts of things as the actor. such as comp-

lexities of characterization and motive and the kind of tempi
and dynamics with which the character should be expressed.
( As already explained. it is no use his being definite about
these things yet : the actor has not reached the point where
there is any possibility of him and the director being in tune
about them )
( John Fernald in ’S-ense of Direction’ )

