India has been the land of many religions, languages and cultures: and they have
generally flourished peacefully side by side. That emerging people can get seduced by religious
or rather kinds of fanaticism; which in turn can result, in bitter antagonism; involving shattering of the national fabric itself; can be indeed from the glory experiences. The theatre in
general and the Hindi theatre in particular, because of its specific advantages can play a
decisive part in shaping the destiny of Indian people. Thus the problems that beset the Hindi
theatre are of Universal concern. Development of Hindi theatre may well be looked upon
as the percusor of the growth of Indian theatre and a pre-caster of the progress of the Indian
pe o p le .
The depth and sweap of social stimulation and aesthetic accomplishment which is
needed before the stubborn but outdated theatre forms can be fully destroyed were little
understood in the pioneering days of Hindi theatre; Even today a great deal of wishful thinking
before understanding and arrests action. That the process of change even growth and varied
stresses and strains have hampered the progress of Hindi theatre is a fact which is realised
with woeful inadequacy. To achieve a common focus of understanding and effort at theatre
transformation requires special dedicated and deliberate efforts. The task does demand an
intellectual ‘tour de force’. What may be spontaneous with national theatres that are not
handicapped by a multiplicity of languages has to be willed and shaped by the revolutionaries
of Hindi theatre; particularly if the transf’ormasion is sought; as in Hindi region by eliciting
the consent of the people; that is through democratic methods and pressure. The problems
that confront such a revolution are immense, but so are the possibilities. The path that leads
the Hindi theatre to its pinnacle may be ardous, but the prospects that it beholds are alluring.
If the glorious trails is to be blazed, then men of purpose have to apply themselves at analysing
the problems, resolving the difﬁculties and formulating the solutions. It is to this purpose,

that colloquiums like the present one can contribute.
We are fortunate to have amidst us the lumanaries of theatre and would have the

benefit of their considered views on “organisational and technical problems of contemporary
theatre in Uttar Pradesh.”

-=§!::

