II!
SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY

In the introduction Basho, the haiku poet, introduces
himself to the audience and tells us he is on his way to the
deep north to seek enlightenment.
He returns in the next

scene and tells us thirty years have passed and he has failed
to find enlightenment.

He meets an earnest young monk called

Kiro and learns that the city which has grown up in his
absence is ruled by a tyrant called Shogo who puts people who
disobey him into a sack and throws them into the river.

Kiro and some fellow monks get drunk and their horseplay
culminates in Kiro getting a holy pot stuck on his head.
various solutions are tried from brute force to prayer; Argi,
the pious boss monk prays, '0 God, take the pot off his head,
amen.‘ On the road they meet soldiers taking Basho to Shogo.
Basho's solution is 'Think small.'
It doesn't work, so he

says,

'You would have to make the pot think big, and that's

definitely beyond your powers.‘
It is a remarkably
economical way of revealing that Basho is merely a commonplace

Argi dressed in the outer trappings of a poet—philosopher.
They all arrive at Shogo's court just after an attempt has
been made on his life (an everyday_occurrence).
The scene is a

vivid parable about pragmatism.

Shogo calls a witness of the

३३

lattempted assassination, and slowly draws a sack over his body
while he questions him.
Shogo has sent for Basho because he
wants him to take away and look after the small son of the old
Emperor whom he (Shogo) has deposed.
The monks pester Shogo
to solve the pot problem before Kiro suffocates.
Rulers have
no time to consider solutions - in one movement Shogo smashes
the holy pot and draws the sack over the man's head.
Basho,
appalled by Shogo's atrocities, goes back to the deep north
and gives the baby to the 'barbarians' - a British Commodore
and his missionary sister Georgina.
They conquer the city
and Shogo disguised as a monk, escapes to, he north with Kiro.
Georgina rules the city in her way.
She also converts the
monks.
When Shogo gets hold of some guns and recaptures the

city, it is by the river that he discovers Georgina with five
children.
This scene is perhaps the most poignant that Bond
has written.

One of the children is the son of the old Emperor,

but which one?

Georgina cannot tell him.

Only Basho knows but

Basho is not to be found.
'They‘re all rbough up to be the
same,‘ says Georgina.
All she can do in the situation is to

make them pray.

'Eyes shut, children.

Jesus sees us.‘

In

desperation shogo has the soldiers kill all five of them.
The final scene brings a dramatic volte face.
We see Shogo
in chainsg the Commodore is in charge again and Basho is his
Prime Minister.

In despair, Kiro prepares to commit hari-kiri, but as he
lets his robes fall and takes out his knife Georgina assumes

