MALLIKA SARABHAI
Her career was drawn as BA. Hons in Economics from St. Xaviers College, Ahmedabad in
1972. Continued with her career and completed MBA in 1974 from IIm, Ahmedabad. She

did her Ph.D in 1976 from Gujrat University in Organisation Behaviour. She achived D.1it in
1998 from University of East Anglia, Norwich for contribution in arts.
The great choreographer used to held the post of the Co-director of Darpana, Academy of
Performing Arts (1977) and President of CIOF‘F‘, India. She is also the trustee of Sakshi
(1999) and National Foundation for India (2000), and also the President of Mahatma
Gandhi International School and also the Member of the Governing Board of the Academy
of HIRD India.
She performed as a dancer and choreographer in many places of India and abroad. She
is the leads soloist since 1977 at the Darpana Academy of Performing Arts/ specializes in
Bharata Natyam and Kuchipudi; also a contemporary dancer with the Darpana
Performance Group; the Pan Project, London; the Battery Dance Company, New Ybrk; the

National Dance Institute, New YOrk. Has performed throughout India as well as Western
Europe, North and South America, East and South East Asia, Australia, Africa and the
Middle East. Has led her dance group to prestigious festivals at Sadlers Wells-Festival des
Champs Elysees - Festivals of Perth, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Israel, Egypt and to all
major festivals held in India.
Mallika has performed many theatre and dance theatre, a few of them are Patra Mitro.
An Idea Named Mira, The Journey Inward : Devi Mahatrnya, In Search of the Goddess,
Kaliyug- The Circle of Paradise, Shakti- The Power of Women, Peter Brook’s The
Mahabharata.

Apart from the theatre and dance theatre she was also associated with television media
and hosted many programmes like Vaividhyotsau, Storyteller, Show Reel, On Air with
’
Mallika, Speakeasy with Mallika.
She has done numerous films like Dany, Peter Brooks The Mahabharata, Kahlcasha.
Sheesha, Mena Gurjari as an actress and also published and edited many books.
She was honoured by Indian Merchants Chamber as the “Woman of the year" in April

2004 and got many other awards like Indian for Collective Actions Honor Award, Kala
Shiromani Purskar, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award.

