SOUMI'I‘RA CHATTOPADHYAY
Soumitra Chattopadhyay the actor and probably the most acknowledged one internationally
from Bengal. The later is due to his appearance in many of Satyajit Ray‘s movies. He is to
the films of Satyajit Ray what Toshiro Mifune was to the films of Akira Kurosawa or
Marcello Mastroianni to Federico Fellini. Soumitra appeared in 15 of the 34 films made by
Ray.

Born in 1935, Soumitra graduated from Calcutta University with honors in literature.
First appeared in film in 1959. It was ‘Apu-r Sansar’ (The World of Apu), the final film of
Satyajit Ray’s ‘Apu Trilogy’. Soumitra acted in the role of a young man ‘Apu’ who experiences

the turmoil of life. His work in this film gave him a distinct place in the heart of Bengali cine
goers. This place was even more firmed when he portrayed the ever-popular character of
‘F‘eluda’ in Ray’s thriller ‘Sonar Kella’ in the seventies. Ray made three films based on the

works of Tagore and incidentally Soumitra acted in all of them— ‘Charulata’, ‘Samapti‘ (in
‘Teen Kanya’) and ‘Ghare Baire’. Apart from Ray, he acted with other prominent film
directors such as Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha etc. Soumitra diSplayed same level of excellence

in regular commercial films as well as in parallel movies.
Other than film, Soumitra acts, writes and directs plays in Bengali theatre. Acted with
legendary stage personalities like Sisir Kumar Bhaduri in the early days. Soumitra reads
and writes poetry and has a distinct place in the arena of Bengali poetry recitation. He also
acts for television and in folk dramas (Jatra’s).

Soumitra received the ‘The Officier des Arts et Metiers’, the highest award for arts from
France, lifetime achievement award from Italy. He is probably the only Indian actor to have
a full-length documentary devoted to him by any Westerner— F‘rench director Catherine
Berge made a documentary film titled ‘Tree’ on his life. He refused ‘Padmasree’ from India
Govt. in the seventies. Recently he was awarded with ‘Padma Bhusan’ by President of India.
But the best award for him is probably the love and the legendary place in the heart of film
‘
lovers.

