२8 झूव्याहें o भिनिब्र was

यणि७ भक्ता
क्तब्तन्चब्वस्काद्म फाबिद्रुख त्राबिद्रुक्त भास्कृठिददृ बिद्धाब । बाद्रुष्ठद्म झूल, aims लुच्चा, क्तबिखा mama क्तछै-कॅस्थ्यब-ड्डिक्याख-द्रुबदृव्य ! बाटन रा can?
व्लाडा नूद्रुब्ब वमद्रुच्चहे cam I या swarms बिजास्व । त्काथाऱ। टूरा हृब्बनात्मानाठ्यदृ थानिन्ददृ नाइहैंदृडिददृ ठछिबि Emit—w ठेगृख्या Iran‘s थादृक्रा ना ।
स्थावात्न शंबिचाबष्ठि किह मष्किहे प्यासा बक्श । कीडा mam भघृक्त, भास्कृठिक्त mama निभानी, mm र्डत्तेबक्यस्तान
क्तखक्शास्वा as??? मानब जानूट्यव्र मद्रघख्या पिन वाक्या । कास्की यश्याज्ञाना शाबिटागिद्रुक्त ज्वाभाशान्या भाद्रुनव्र पकी l नाश्याज्ञ ले,
स्काधिबछा Lia चंबद्रुव्रव्र Witt—‘7 नाय mam ना-- छवी शाबूदृवद्म ददृथाद्रुव्व twat? स्काद्रुठे खाद्य कि ! व्यादक्की खाद्य call? जीन--त्रालेबिक्त Elm—61a बिक्तद्रुक्त am? क्तब्रदृहृन I अँदृफ्त शिबि त्राडिब्तखा स्थावाव्व । फूलना ट्यव्या खाब आनह ८1१1१- न्चनुण्डिदृट्स ।
Lima "गाद्रुबव्र ङ्कदृस्थ्य "ह्रस्व-हल्लि क्यानहे काश धिदृराद्रुहृ । was प्याज़ बटन ना । आखो, व्यान्चक्कीद्य णाप्ताक्सि was दृख्यिद्म मानब भानूब I
वार्मि७पनिगुद२उगुनीर, थाद्रुक्तन । महेंधोक्षदृ I छादृघ्नक्सि ष्ठव्यक्याद्म । आन किटू चाब्लूष्ठष्ठि प्यारा माणा द्रुवेंक्चणि क्तद्रुद्मन ना टूरा ददृब्तकाछाव्र ८1 वाडिब्र "आस्ति
खाक्शाहृस्का थानिबदृ भाहृत्सा was 'बाद्रुब्रन ।
व्याह शक्ति spasm चाछिटख अनिच्छा स्थिरदृमङ्ग स्कारल्लाण्ड लाड़वाव्र । शव्वक्तिब्तव्र स्काधिघ्र माछ mam डिनि । कात्मात्नद्म car
क्याश्वा {Tame र्दूटऱ। यारा ! चाचा शाद्रुस्ता स्का णिद्रुन्हाहे डूरैंट्याद्रुइन । नून्दहै त्राष्ठाबिक्त ।

किह swarm प्याज्ञाद्रुफ्त mum तैशें स्वाब are 'नाट्य १ प्याघाद्रुश्य प्नद'हैंइडि शाज्यि बैद्रुष्ठ स्वास्थ्य cam क्य विस्ता… as शब Erica I
बूट्यब्र दाखला आम was ड्डिश्याठ Circa गुनाह a खाक्खन्द्र I
हम्माद Cami ८1३ बिन्नाटम क्य शब्द ८१1 answers—vii जाता के पावर खान्द्रक्कीव्र aims ट्यलाव्र शामिल हृटद ना ?

८1 ca ख्याज्ञास्काहै मुक्त- M's-II थोथा बक्र asst-6 चस्का क्याद्रुइन- भक्ता स्का तैज्ञे mica? ! स्था स्का न्चव्वद्रुइब है; दाष्ठाद्रा in? बाष्प '
छादन ।

Jodio Sandhya
The cultural revolution is in every corner of Kolkata. There are so many production centres

for schooling dances, songs and teaching trembling of voice of recitation. Whenever it may
be its only to Open a door. The parents are confused. They are unable to decide where to
put their children for this cultural taste.
.
In fact the Ghosal family is different from others. Enriched with the Rabindra Culture,
keeps deep faith in cultural tradition, who lead their united lives with simple and depthful

mind. Abanti is an extraordinary singer against a little cost. She has no fame, popularity,
never gets a place on the front page of newspaper— as the quality people just always face.
Srabanti is her younger sister fighting against physical unablity. Shantilata Ghosal is their
father’s sister. A personality which is not comparable.
‘
.
Already the number of students have dicreased in their vocal class. There is no class
sessions happen now. The man who is the elder brother of Srabanti and Abanti is also a

person of depthful mind. Lives in Shantiniketan. Married. Their daughter is also very nice.
But her parents don’t earn much, so not able to help a little to their old family.
Monika Biswas lives just opposite to Ghosal family, who deserves a ready market in her
trade. She teaches modern dance. She takes upto fifty thousand also for a show. So the
parents run after her. So natural.
But, whatever happens may our tradition come to an end?
_
Our culture is highly deep rooted. Will today’s wind come and destroy everything? Impossible .

The children who are blooming with this believe, someday, once again will not they join
in Abanti’s musical fair?
Oh, it is one of us, who asked to not to switch off the fanarell, it is evening, so what? Who
is speaking? The children know his name.

