that as acting today is a vocation for most, it will be foolish to turn, a blind eye to such
addiction related problems. Infact the sports pe0ple are far ahead of actors in this reSpect.
Though they have shorter career Spans ,awareness has made them abstain from such
addictions. An actor is not constrained as much by age as a sportsperson. Infact he can
prolong his career if he wants to by taking care of his health. It is imperative that he takes
proper care of his voice.

Can consumption of alcohol be harmful?
Tobacco and PanMasala has no food value. But alcohol has food value if it is not of poor
quality. It has some medicinal value too. It acts as a pain-killer, induces sleep and improves
the appetite if consumed in limitation. Consumption of alcohol in moderation is hence,
acceptable. But it should never be excessive as it may cause irrepairable damage to ones

health. Those suffering from Gastritis, Diabetis, Hepatitis, high blood pressure etc should
refrain from drinking. Consumption of alcohol aggravates acidity and ﬂatulence which
affects the quality of the voice adversely.
Tea , Coffee an d Snuff

For good tonal quality it is necessary to have not only a healthy oral cavity, larynx and

Pharynx but also a healthy nose and sinuses, lungs and stomach. The nose adds resonance
to the voice .If for some reason the nose becomes blocked, the voice is affected. Snuff blocks
the nasal passage and distorts the resonance of the voice. Hence, articulation becomes
blurred. Not only this, the snuff user often falls a victim to sinusitis and pharyngitis. Some
become afﬂicted by snuff related allergy.

Tea and coffee consumed in moderation refreshes and recharges its consumers. But it
would be better if they are taken without sugar as sugar has high calorific value and leads
to weight gain. Inferior quality tea or coffee produces acidity which in turn harms the voice.
The victim of this condition is supposed to be suffering from “GERD”(Gastro esophageal

reﬂux disorder). Consumption of excessive amounts of tea or coffee has other disadvantages
too. It encourages the urge to urinate, which means loss of ﬂuid from the body .The throat
becomes parched as a result and the voice is affected.
Actually all performers should exercise some control over their diet. A faulty diet not only
affects ones physical health. it also robs one of his energy to work. Those who are

excessively fond of food should spend some time learning about the calorific value of
different types of food. This will help them to stay away from high calorie foodstuff and curb

the urge to eat them.
The correct method of Speaking

What constitutes the correct method of speaking? We should Speak in a level tone of voice,
with sufficient pauses in between. It is necessary to breathe in deeply before one starts to

Speak. The Larynx is harmed if one continues to speak on a regular basis even when one is
out of breath. It goes without saying that excessive talking harms the throat as already
discussed earlier.
Infact excessive talking hints at psychological disorder. There are some people who do
not allow others to talk at all. Close observation of such peOple will reveal that most of them
have hoarse voices and have distorted, swollen, congested vocal chords. A clinical
examination often reveals a condition called “Singer's Nodules”.

What is “Singer’s Nodule”?
Singer’s Nodules are small, whitish bead like growths affecting the anterior portions of the
two vocal chords, an easily identifiable disease.

