But how can they be treated?

Many specialists suggest micro-surgery. I feel it is best to try speech therapy. The affected

person should rest his voice and refrain from talking altogether. He should also learn the
correct way of delivering speech. If he does not learn to do so, the problem will recur even

if he undergoes an operation. And how many such surgeries can one subject himself to?
Isn’t it shameful for a performing vocalist not to know the prOper way of using one of his

greatest professional assets - his voice?
Rehearsal and the voice

Rehearsals do more harm than good to the voice eSpecially if one is required to speak in a
“falsetto”. Performing artists who are required to participate in rehearsals regularly should

be careful about the way in which they are using the voice during rehearsals. The voice
should not be stressed unnecessarily. If he is required to Speak in a different tone of voice
to breathe life to the character he is portraying, he should try and do so in moderation. If

possible save it for the final performance only and rest the voice as much as possible.
Use of the voice in the auditorium

An auditorium with good acoustics is a voice-friendly auditorium. Auditoriums in which one
is forced to raise his voice above the noise of ceiling fans or the hum of generators generally
spell doom for the voice of the performer if he has to perform for long stretches of time.
Gr e enr o om8

Good greenrooms are well lighted, well ventilated and air-conditioned. The humidity level
should be well regulated too. Most greenrooms are equipped with powerful electric lights

which heat up the air circulating within a greenroom and turn it dry. The throat dries tip
when such air is inhaled and the voice generally breaks. The greenroom should be a “No
Smoking” zone. Remember, to- exert ones voice when the throat is dry means to run a car
without petrol. Water is essential to keep the voice wet and one must drink 12-14 glasses of
‘water daily.

Backstage
Backstage of ill-maintained auditoriums are generally devoid of cleanliness. Covered with
cobwebs and dust they are potential sources of health hazards for performers with Asthma

and allergy. Bouts of allergic sneezing and asthmatic attacks can incapacitate a performer.
Hence one needs to be careful about visiting such backstage.
Travelling and voice

It is best not to use the voice when one is traveling by car, train or aeroplane because it

involves talking by raising ones voice above other noises. Performers may have to travel
frequently. It will be best if they do not talk excessively while doing so as the strain might
take away the strength of voice, so necessary during a perfbrmance.
If one is due fOr a performance abroad, one should find out about the acoustics in the

auditoriums he is scheduled to be performing in, and if possible check out the conditions
himself. It is also essential to be disciplined and maintain regular mealtimes and sleeping
hours. Sleeping pills and intoxicants of any kind are to be avoided at all costs.

Admirers or “F‘ans” can tire out a performer or induce him to talk more than is good for
him. One should guard oneself against meeting them before a show.
Medical Check-ups

All performing artists should undergo regular medical check-ups. Studios abroad are
equipped with such facilities. Unfbrtunately such facilities are not available in India.
Imagine how helpful it would have been for performers if they could avail of medical check-

