How National is our National Theatre?
Pr
as
an
n
a
V

The Indian Constitution defines all the languages included in the Eighth Schedule as
national languages. My language, that is Kannada, is therefore a national language. Similarly
my theatre, that is Kannada theatre, should have been treated as national theatre and
deveIOped as such. Theatres such as Tamil, Malayalam, Assamees, Punjabi, Gujarati too
should have been developed as national theatre. It was not done so.

Theatre without People

The Language theatres have been treated as mere regional» theatre and relegated to a
secondary position. Instead we spent all our resources on developing an exclusive panIndian entity called national theatre. This policy resulted in complete isolation of theatre
from the people. As a result Indian theatre which had proudly participated in our national
movement as people’s theatre has today become a mere symbol to be propped up at

festivals in Delhi and abroad.
The true paradox of our national policy can be illustrated through the example of Hindi
theatre itself. Hindi was treated as the language of this pan-Indian entity and one would
have expected such a privileging to have helped the growth of theatre infrastructure in
. Hindi-speaking states at least. Unfbrtunately this hasn’t happened in Bihar, ME, UP,
Jammu so on.
A recent study has shown that both training and performance infrastructure in Hindispeaking states has in fact deteriorated in the last few decades. Hindi-speaking states are as
unhappy with our national policy, as the non-Hindi speaking states. In fact most theatre
people feel that the national theatre, as is. being perpetuated today, is at best the national

capital theatre and not the national theatre.
Perpetration of Delhi

Let me give a few facts and figures to illustrate this fallacy. Last year and most earlier years
the department of culture of the Government of India spent more than half of its entire

allocation for theatre on just one city that is Delhi. India, a huge nation with one hundred
crore people and several national languages, has only one National School of Drama, and it
is situated at Delhi. The National academy for theatre, i.e. Sangeeth Natak academy is also
situated at Delhi. Unlike the Sahitya akademi, which at least has regional offices, regional
language activities and publications. The Sangeet Natak Academy operates only from Delhi.
The only National theatre festival of India happens in Delhi. The ICCR, The CCRT, The
Theatre in Education company, The National theatre repertory and so on are all situated in

Delhi and operate mostly from within Delhi.

One crore per Student!

The National School of Drama, funded by the Government of India, has a budget of roughly
Rs. 6 crores per year. And on an average it trains eighteen students. It works out to about a
crore of rupees per student for the three-year period that the student stays at the school. If
we compare this figure with the funding situation in regional theatre schools it compares

like Mr. Birla and a tribal from the Jharkhand region.
For example the total budget of The Natak Academy in Karnataka is less than Rs. 10 lakh
per year. Karnataka has nearly 6 crore people living in it. Even when we include the
occasional central grant that Karnataka gets and also the indirect spending done by the

Dept. of Culture, Government of Karnataka on theatre, the average spending per Kannadiga
will not be more than 25 paise per year. By and large this is the situation in all the states in

the country. The Regional theatre is at the mercy of State Governments and most state

