Keep up your bright Swords, for the dew will rust them
Amitabha Chaudhury
‘F‘rom the deep-ploughed furrow of his heart reaps harvest rich of goodly
purposes, my goodfriend Sournitra said, ‘you don’tfrequent the theatre halls,
is this poet’s apathy to drama?’ After he had spoken, I was going to say
something in reply when Bratya said, ‘He is the critique of Brecht’, to which I
said, ‘you do not imagine, I hOpe, but the arguments have been adequately
expressed in defense of the drama’. ‘Interrelation of verse with drama’, he
answered, ‘we have not heard that’.

And I told them of my sad experience recently, of witnessing two plays in verse, one written
by Buddhadev Bose and the other by a poet of our time, and on both the occasions I
suffered. Both of them are guilty, for both ignored the cardinal rule that no play shall be
written in verse for which prose is dramatically more adequate. The success of a drama is
essentially in dramatic actions that hold the attention of the audience. Prose or verse is only
a medium, which is a means to an end in achieving this. No denying that the prose the
characters Speak in the prose plays, that have survived through generations, is different
from the ordinary Speech— unmistakably with a distinct style of personal rhythm, and the
audience appreciate it as better than conversation, but is not consciously aware of the
difference. The prose is never an interposed barrier between him and the imaginary

characters on stage. With verse, there is a definite consciousness in the mind of the
difference and the audience is alienated and repelled. Gone are the days, my dear friends,
of the Elizabethan audience to whose ears both prose and verse came naturally.

Be warned, as Mr. Eliot had said, there’s still more danger in mixing verse with prose, for
the transition from one medium to the other jolts the audience. Such mixing can have only
one justification to consciously produce the jolt and use it to great effect to dramatize, as
Shakespeare did in Henry IV. He intended an ironic contrast, in the words of Mr. Eliot,

between the world of high politics and the world of common life.
_
It’s not the matter of developing conversational, colloquial or even pedestrian language of
the verse in drama, what is important is that each line of poetry has to be justified for
dramatic value that the audience consciously wish to attend. They do not wish to attend to
poetry; they attend to the meaning of poetry with dramatic consequence.
There are these three voices of poetry; the first is that of the poet talking to himself,
which cannot be used as the third voice when the poet attempts to create a dramatic

character speaking in verse. No, no poet has begun to master dramatic verse until he can
pen lines like that in Hamlet. Hamlet is great poetry that is dramatic with a musical design

that reinforces and in one with dramatic movement, checking and accelerating audience’s
emotion.
'
There was no besetment for the Greek poetry, for poetry had only the third voice then for
the poets were requisitioned, or should we say, they took it upon themselves as the only

purpose of writing poetry to praise the heroes. For this very purpose, poetry gave birth to
drama. Epic dramas did not have any other medium of conversation. Poetic faculty only
could bridge the gap between epic Spaciousness of the impression of magnitude and the
encompassing world with dramatic concentration. Poetry Spoken by the characters and the
Chorus established imagery in their epic proportions and freed the plays from their
dramatic limitations.
Frontiers of drama and verse has changed and expanded ever since, particularly with the
maturing of language and a new set of social and political constructs in modern time, and
on the same terrain they strolled on different paths and now arbitrate in different dwellings.

