Verse transformed into poetry and drama into play, both rejecting grand designs. Murder in
the Cathedral is testimony to the fact that endeavors at grand design fails in this changed
scenario. Despite the Chorus, or the charwomen of Cantebury, as Mr. Eliot himself referred
to them, the play does not attain the level of dramatic development to the form of a classic
due to seer arbitrariness
Plays have emphatically discovered their own language and have dispensed with the
personal rhythm of the prose style that I have mentioned before, and the thought of poetic
disposition in the language of a play is foolhardiness. Like the avant-garde play writes,
Brecht, Beckett, Lonesco, Genet, Painter, et.a1., all the successful play writes of present time
use language gutters and communication falters to portrait disintegration of characters and
personalities to depict psychological reality of human hopes, fears and dreams.
Surely, dramatists are not of a different social construct from that of the poets of the
present time. Intellectually both behold chaos and frustration with similar concern and

conscience, and engage their creative mind in presenting their thoughts. There is no
contradiction here. But their expressions are at variance, while the poet’s reaction and
consequent expression is in retrospection, the dramatist’s imagination is in building up a
visual impression. Modern theatre is intent upon denying the spectator the satisfaction of
an unequivocal meaning, and it has discovered the incisive and tense quality of language to

serve this purpose. I must mention here J. M. Synge, the Dublin man who had so long ago
discovered the new language for drama, albeit different from the incise and tense quality of
the avant-garde dramatists. Despite drawing from poetic imagination, his was a language
different from poetry in form and in text.
Brecht wished to make his audience realize that they are in a theatre and not
eavesdropping on real life. This, the concept of epic theatre, of course has undergone a
paradigm change. Edward Albee’s intention was for an audience to relax and let the plays
happen provided it approaches the dramatic experience without preconceptions of what the

nature of dramatic experience should be. Despite divergent views, their answers to their
medium of expression was identical— a language unique in fragmentation and dictum that
is at variance with the language of poetry. And with this definite knowledge, Brecht, the
dramatist so consciously refused to cohabit with Brecht, the poet. With the perfbrmance of

Waiting for Godot on 3rd August, 1955 at the Arts Theatre, London, that caused the
SOphisticated European audience to explode, the umbilical cord that bound drama with
poetry that gave its birth was snapped once fOr all.
To your question if poetcy has any use for drama, I categorically say, no, excepting for
monologues, for only monologues thrive on poetic expressions.

‘And at the end of this discourse, I have a confession to make, in answer to
Soumitra. I have always been and still am attracted by the Munich Hall and
the Shaftsbury Avenue, of whatever remains are there, and the Broadway as
much as by the poetry ofMallarme, Rilke, and John Ashberry.

