Monday, 11 January 2016, 10 a.m., Meghdoot Theatre III

P LAY

Aap Hamare Hain Kaun
Script & Direction: BALWANT THAKUR
Presented by Natrang, Jarnrnu
Duration: 80 minutes

About the play
The play shakes parents,
educationists/guardians of society out of reverie
of materialism, consumerism and unbridled
desires. This play compels elders to look around
and clear the mess they have created due to their own ambitions and rat race. Parents see in their
children an extension of their unfulfilled dreams and force them to become stereotypes and kill the

bountiful charm in them. in a pursuit to make them top professionals, doctors, engineers and civil
servants, they are subjected to every kind of cruelty. The children become mechanical and hardly get
time to discover their real selves. Prevalent educational system adds further insult to the injury and
their creativity gets scuttled and children grow up devoid of values. Play deals with contemporary

problems that younger generation is up against from their own loved ones and surroundings. T'all
claims and big concerns of parents, relations, and educationists are being questioned by the younger
generation.

Director’s Note
Though we have been doing regular work with Children at Natrang since 1990 but in this particular
production we attempted to evolve something which we have been visualizing since the very
inception of Children's theatre in Natrang. In fact we as adults have been imposing on children a kind
of theatre which is not meant for them. The training process evolved for adults cannot be imposed on
children keeping in view their physical and psychological limitations. The heavy texts and themes in
which they are not able to identify themselves cannot be thrust on them in the name of children's

theatre. Here started a search of theatre exclusively meant for children. The process was very
challenging, exciting and interesting. We discarded all established conventions and started involving
a process suiting to children. Everyone associated with this evolutionary process not only enjoyed the

work but also contributed his/her best in the creation of Aap Humare Hal Kaun.

About the Director
Born in 1960, Balwant Thakur has participated in a number of National Theatre
Festivals. His well known productions include Ghumayee, Bawa Jitto, Suno Eh

Kahani, Chauraha and Mahabhoj. He is credited for bringing Dogri theatre to the
national and international stage. A recipient of senior fellowship for three years to
do research on the performing modes of Jammu, Shri Thakur has been felicitated
by Sanskriti Award for theatre direction, Ford Foundation (USA) Grant for his

research project Search for a New Theatre Language. In Children's theatre,
Balwant Thakur has worked on evolving drarnaturgy for children. His plays such as

