Mere Hisse Ki Dhoop Kahan Hai, Aap Hamare Hain Kaun, Hum Hain Naa, and Bhag Beta Bhag are
being credited as the most demanded children productions which have been featured in almost all
the major theatre events in India. Currently working as Regional Director-cum-consultant in Indian
Council for Cultural Relations, Ministry of External Affairs, and Government of India, Shri Balwant

Thakur is a recipient of Sangeet Natak Akaderni Award for his contribution to theatre as a director.

Natrang, Jammu
Natrang was established in the year 1983. With over 300 plays with 5000 shows, Natrang has
participated in over 175 national theatre festivals since inception. Presently the group is having its
own equipped Studio-Theatre, a library, a resource centre and a repertory company. The group also
has a children's weekend club, Natrang rural theatre, Natrang Sunday Theatre and a Theatre
Laboratory. Natrang also organizes major theatre festivals.

On Stage
Neeraj Kant, Juhi Singh, Gopi Sharma, Sanchita Dubey, Sanyarn Gupta, Shreya Gupta, Agarn Kaur,
Mihir Gujral, Manya Gujral, Sanya Gupta, Asrna GuI, Ayn Bhola, Chander Pratap Singh Bhau, Chirag
Anand, Sanvi Anand, Riya Jandial, Saba Jamwal, Shivangini Sharma, Divyan Sharma, Sahil Singh
Anand, Sanket Bhagat, Rudra Kohli and Gauri Thakur

Off-Stage
Harmonium: Anil Tickoo
Rhythm: Rakesh Kumar
Lights: Ankush Lakhnotra

Properties/Costumes: Aarushi Thakur
Group Manager: Mohd. Yaseen
Assistant Director: Surneet Sharma

Monday, 11 January 2016, 3 p.m., Meghdoot Theatre III
LECTURE DEMONSTRATION

Aasaritavardhamanavidhi
Chitrapoorvaranga — the Chapter 5 of Bharat Muni’s Natyasastra
Lec—dem by PIYAL BHATTACHARYA
Presented by Chidakash Kalalay — Centre of Arts & Divinity, Howrah
Duration: 90 minutes

Chitrapoorva Ranga (Asarita-Vardhamana Vidhi)
One of the typical songs to present the nritta of Bharata, Asarita-Vardharnana Vidhi, used to be
acknowledged as the first offering of nritta to the ultimate consciousness in her/his maiden
performance. Literally meant as a ‘dragged and stretched song’, Asarita is a Shiva Stuti explicitly
intertwined with the practical manifestation of various cosmic and philosophic truths and perceptions.
Vardhamana is when the Asar/ta song is sung with Upohan and a specific teal-pattern upon which the

