dancer performs. This taalbase is at time made quicker

during the Layantar and
dragged during the

Jyeshthha Asarita. Nritta in
Bharata’s Natyashastra is the
cause behind the existence
of this universe, Jagatkarana,

the first pulse; and Natya is
Jagat—karya, the expansion of
this universe. Nritta is pulse

that forwards with cosmic

time or Kaal. In case of this
Asar/‘ta-Vardhamana Vidhi,

Angaharas are the pulsations
accompanied by Taal. The
were of the songs are there

dernarcating the primal
presence of Saura-prana during the creation of the universe, whereas the Padas are there as the

symbol of Som existing within Saumya-vaak. This has been recognized as Agni-somatmakang Jagat.
Bharata Muni described Natya as Lokanukaranam Natyam, but Nritta is not Lokanukaranam. It is an
ernbellishing daintiness, which is beyond this material exposition of universe. It is self-born and selfsustained. This dr/shti, world-view, is to be learnt through Guruparampara. It is not possible to
understand this system with intellectual perspectives. A realized or intuitive consciousness can only
enable one to understand such system. Through that one can understand how Jagatkunda/i,
Varnakunda/i and Prana/runda/i is exposing and expanding through Nritta of the Natyashasz‘ra.

ड्डाब्धदृपाश्लीम्पादृमृह्म" m

.…/.. .3"

i

iﬂﬂq .,

हैं ३३

i‘

One can find two mentions of Poorvaranga in Natyashastra, respectively in Chapter 4th and 5th,
named as Shuddhapoorva Ranga and Chitrapoorva Ranga. The first Natya, which Bharata Muni
presented, had no Nritta within it, and therefore lacked the certain Prana or pulsation. So, the
Chitrapoorva Ranga was created, as in here all the rituals are being performed through singing and
dancing. That is why here Mahageetakas have been used, not any everyday song. Just as Brahma
created the Vedas in the same regard these songs are treated as auspicious as the Veda-chanting.
Tuned in the cycle of 4th, the subtle vibration of the Geetakas are manifested through our gross body.
This is completely A/auk/ka, therefore it is Self—born and self—sustained, not dependent upon the
outside world. According to Abhinavagupta, hence the literature is equivalent to mantras, thence the
performance should not be exoteric but esoteric. My research with ICH has come up to this; after that

Sutradhara-pravesh, along with Pariparshvik and later the abhinaya of a Raga-natya will be followed in
the upcoming years. But shall take at least 4—5 years as that is a matter of extensive research and

thorough, hardcore training of the performers.

. दृ l

l—
५ अँ, f t
५

,» . ,— ८५ f , v i ,4 r

I" ५

t\

चि '. , . (— है५

-

r: E / नु

Piyal Bhattacharya is well known for his work on practice of the Marga Natya - the music and dance

