tradition, without any influence from modern day Classical. He learnt Kathakali at Kerala
Kalarnandalarn (1999 to 2005) and finished his masters under the strict tutelage of Kalarnandalarn
Balasubrahrnanyan and other renowned rnaestros. There he also learnt Kudiyattarn under
Kalarnandalarn Radhakrishnan, learnt to play Mizavu under Kalarnandalarn lshvarunni, Kathakali
Vocal under Kalarnandalarn M.S. Narnboodiri and Kalaripayattu under RK. Balan Gurrukkal.

The irresistible urge to understand the lost tradition of Bharata’s system of music compelled him to
study Musicology under Dr. Pradeep Ghosh, Dr. N. Ramanathan and Dr. lndrani Chakravarty; he took
Dhrupad lessons from Guru Phalguni Mitra and Asit Banerjee; learnt Rudraveena of Dagar Gharana
under Asit Banerjee and Saraswati Veena under Vijay Varalaxmi; Pung Achoba under Guru Premjit
Singh and Pakhawaj under Apurvalal Manna. Simultaneoust he studied Sanskrit and Indian
philosophies profusely, in order to understand the deeply embedded meanings of Natyashastra,
under Nikhilesh Shastri and Manudev Bhattacharya.

In 2010 he started work on reconstructing the ancient musical instruments of Bharata's period with
support from Sangeet Natak Akademi. His work evolved out as a complete live musical orchestra as

described by the Bharatarnuni. In 2011 he received Fellowship from the Ministry of Culture,
Government of India for the complete reconstruction of 11 Natyasangraha. In 2014, he received a
grant under the Akademi's Scheme of Safeguarding the Intangible Cultural Heritage of India.

Chidakash Kalalay - Centre of Art and Divinity
Established In 2013, Chidakash Kalalay is focusing on preservation and practice of India's intangible
heritages. The group has been housing the practice and performance of the knowledge of Bharata's
Natya—parampara stated in the Natyashastra, as been envisioned and researched as Marga Natya by
Piyal Bhattacharya. To bring back and re-install the eternal practice of the transcendence through
ancient art, music and dance is the aim of this group. The Centre conducts workshops at regular
intervals and stages performances of Marga Natya to present the improvement of tedious and
thorough research. Along with that this Centre also houses small gathering and baithhaks of other

Indian performance heritages like Rudra Veena and Dhrupad.

Cast and Credits
Dancer-actors:

Akash Mallick, Pinki Mondal, Deep Ghosh, Deepan Moitra

Music coordinator, Singer, Dancer-actor: Sayak Mitra
Musician and Kachchhapi veena player: Abhijit Ray

Singer: Seuli Chakravarty
Vipanchi veena player: Subhendu Ghosh
Sushir Vadya (Flute) player: Pararnananda Roy

Director, Research coordinator and Dordura player: Piyal Bhattacharya
Mridanga player: Mithun Chakravarty

Panava player: Joy Dalal

Taaldharika: Rinki Mondal
Lecture coordinator: Meena Banerjee
Costume and backstage-assistance: Chhandak Jana

