India. Group has produced eight ancient, mythological stories in the Swang form and staged all
around India. Main productions are: Jaani ChOI; Rafa Vikramditya, Phoo/ Singh - Nautanki, Ranveer—
Padmavat, Kichak—Draupadi, Sheesh-Parav. More than 120 shows has been staged since 2002. Dr
Majority of the artists of Haryana are directly attached with the group. Time to time Kendra is
organizing, workshops, seminars and lectures on different topics. the artists of the Haryana. It
consists of theatre actors,actresses,writers, dancers and folk singers.

On Stage
Satish Kashyap, Sandhya Sharma, Vinod Goldi, Hawa Singh, Rajesh Nagada, Raj Singh, Naveen
Nishad, Ashish Sharma, Nitin Kalra, Chanchal Goel, Rinku, R K Sain, Pankaj Bhardwaj,

Back Stage
Lighting: Mahesh Bishnoi
Support: Anil Saini, Srinivas Sharma

Monday, 11 January 2016, 6.30 p.m., Meghdoot Theatre - |

P LAY

Azmaan
Script: Poile Sengupta
Adapted by Rudra Prasad Sengupta
Costume & Direction: SOHINI SENGUPTA
Presented by Nandikar, Kolkata
Duration: 90 minutes

About the play
The Woman grew up with her poor, single aunt who left no stone unturned to offer the Woman
comfortable childhood. Many characters of her childhood still remain mysterious to her. The Man
is the middle-aged misguided son of a powerful political leader. He grew up in luxury. His
primary addictions are alcohol, women and power. Much of his life has been controlled by the
selfish motives of his father and the son has engaged time and again, in exploitation and cruelty.
Will the paths of the Woman and the Man ever cross? And if they do, what will it lead to?

About the Director
Born in 1974 in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh Sohini Sengupta took her Master's degree in English
and started theatre under the guidance of her parent Rudraprasad Sengupta and Swatilekha
Sengupta. She also learnt Bharatnatyarn under guru Thankamuni Kutti, Kalamandalam. She has
been associated with Nandikar, Kolkata since 1996 and acted in several plays directed by
Rudraprasad Sengupta and Gautam Haldar namely Su/an Badiyar Ghat, Gotraheen, Nagar

