| N D R A P RA S T H A T H E A T R E S
The aim of Indraprastha Theatres has been, from its beginning in I957, to
assemble a team of talented actors, train them and provide them with experience
through long rehearsals and varied productions. While making no large claims, the

group nevertheless hopes that in this way it may ultimately be in a position to

provide the nucleus for a professional theatre.

The group is exceptionally fortunate

in that it has its leading spirit in Mr. R. G. Anand, the well-known producer and

play—‘wright

whose talent, experience and enthusiasm provide a perpetual stimulant.

Mr. Gurnam Soni a well known Artiste who went abroad on a scholarship is once
again back with the group with added experienced and knowledge.
We would not venture to call ourselves a professional group; but we would like to be
regarded as pioneers for such a group. Although we are not by any means a proﬁtﬁnaking
organisation, we have nevertheless started paying a small fee to our actors during rehearsals
and performances. The emphasis, alas, is on “small”. We cannot pretend that it is a sum on
which our actors can retire from the work by which they earn their living. It is, in fact, nothing
more than a contribution towards the expenses they incur in travelling to and from the place
of rehearsals But that is at least a beginning; a kind of token fee, a promise of more to come
when more can come. Morever, the actors are promised a share in whatever proﬁts the play
in which they are participating may make. Again, of course, this is “theoretical” money.
Even if our plays do not run at a loss, it is not likely that they will, for some time to
come, make anything like a proﬁt. But again, we are looking forward to the future, to
that time when the actor's share will be worth something because enough people will come
to see our plays to enable us to make a real proﬁt.
We are more than hopeful that such a time will eventually come. We only have
to remember what it was like eight years ago to try and stage a play in Delhi, to become
convinced that people here have in the meantime become more, immensely more, theatreconscious. Eight years ago it was very difﬁcult to ﬁnd sufﬁcient actors and—Specially—actresses;
there was nothing even resembling a theatre, and we had to put up with shabby little

halls ﬁtted out for the

occasion with shabby little chairs; and worst of all—the eajoling,

blackmailing, pleading and promising we had to do in order to sell a few tickets and
get a sprinkling of audience together! Now things have changed greatly for the better;
and we are convinced that they will get better still, till one day we shall have a real
professional theatre.

So far Indraprastha Theatres has staged Mr. R. G. Anand’s “Dilli Jalli” “Hum
Hindustani” and Principal Atre’s “Vivah Bandhan”—-all winners of the Delhi Natya

Is as yet
Chitarlekha
Our last production R. G. Anand’s
Sangh Award for best plays.
- a,
~
r १

fresh in the memory of I heatre goers and now we present his “Nayya mori.

Our next shall be R. G. Anand’s DARBAR-E-AKBARI a massive production

which shall be staged in Darbar-e-Ani. of the Red Fort.

