DELHI CHILDREN’S THEATRE .
ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1983-84
I am happy to present before you a brief account of the activities of the Delhi

Children’s Theatre during the year 1983-84.
With the ending of the year 3 1 st March 1984, the organisation stepped into 3lst year

of its existence. It is heartening to note the progress made by the DCT year after year despite
several problems faced by it. The progress has been possible due to the wholehearted support
and cooperation it received from its workers and institution members.

With selﬂess devotion

and ardent zeal of our staff, the training programme of children in dance, drama and music
continued according to schedule.
During the last thirty years, the THEATRE has trained thousands of school-going

children in creative drarnatics, dancing and chories singing through ballets and plays developing in the children, their histrionic talents and personality. The Delhi Children’s Theatre can
claim to have been able to set a high standard for the Children’s shows and has become an

instrument in raising the level of artistic appreciation among the children.

This delightful

training offers an opportunity to the children to achieve an all round development of their
talents in creative art and a sense of rhythmn as well.
Smt Indira Gandhi and Smt Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya are our patrons.

President

:

Vice President

:

General Council :

Smt Shyama Aggarwal
Smt Manmohini Sehgal.

Apart from the patrons, the President and the Vice-President,

there were 34 members and 13 institution members in the General Council of the Organis.
ation.
Governing Body : Seventeen members including the ofﬁce Bearers elected by the
General Council constituted the Governing Body of the Delhi Children’s Theatre. The

-

following held the oﬂices of :
:

Chairman

Smt Roma Deb

Vice-Chairman

:

Smt Purnirna Bandopadhyaya

Hony General Secretary

:

Smt Indira Chatterjee

Hony Joint Secretaries

:

Smt Shanta Gupta & Smt Prabha Chawla -

Hony Treasurer

:

Shri Sukumar Das Sharma

१
I am herewith giving details of our activitiesun der separate heading :
Training Centres : During the year under review ﬁve training centres functioned
9

