E" 5* 9° N ३…३

under the management of the Delhi Children’s Theatre.
tioned during the year, were located at :

The Training centres, which func—

DPS Mathura Road (Junior)
Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market
Sardar Patel Vidyalaya
Laxman Public School, Hauz Khas
Lady Irwin Junior School.

The Children received training in dance, drama and music under the guidance of
experienced teachers, choreographers, music directors and tabla accompanist.

The trainees were charged Rs 5/- for admission and Rs 15/- per month as fee for ten
months of the year. No fees were charged during the two months of summer vacation.
Seven conveners and three peons, nominated by the heads of the school where training centres are located, helped in the regular work of the training centres.
Finance: Against our estimated budget, Rs 3,000/- was received by us from the
Sangeet Natak Akademi, Rs 3,600/— from the Sahitya Kala Parishad and Rs 3,600/- from the

Laxman Foundation. The audited statement of income, expenditure and Balance Sheet of the
Delhi Children’s Theatre for the year 1983-84 will give a clear picture of our ﬁnancial position.
Annual Festival. During the year under review, the Delhi Children’s Theatre held a
four day festival at the Mavalankar Auditorium on February 6th, 7th, 9th and 10th, 1984.
The festival drew large crowd. The rush of school children was overwhelming. There were
two shows in the morning at 10 am and 12 noon exclusively for children and one show in the

evening at 6.30 pm for general public.
children and Rs 5/- for adults.

Tickets were sold at the rate of Rs. 3/- for school

A special souvenir was brought out on the occasion.

We are grateful to the President, Giani Zail Singh and the Ex-Vice-President Shri M.
Hidayatullah for giving special messages for our Souvenir.
The Vice-President, Shri M. Hidayatullah, the Union Minister of State for Science
and Technology, Shri Shivraj Patil, and many distinguished persons of Delhi witnessed our
festival programme. They addressed the children and encouraged them. They highly appre-

Ciated our programme.
I, on behalf of the Delhi Children’s Theatre, hereby extend our sincere thanks to all
those who had offered their whole-hearted cooperation and support in various ways in the all

round success of the festival.

We are thankful to our members and Institutions for their

ready response and enthusiastic participation in the festival. Our thanks are also to those who
readily helpedus by releasing advertisements for our festival souvenir. The DCT is also

grateful to the volunteers for rendering services during the festival days.
We are grateful to DCT President, Smt Shyama Aggarwal, Smt Nupur Bose and
Smt Aruna Dalmia for donating food packets for distribution among participating children
during the festival Smt Aggarwal donated food packets for two days.
The four day festival consisted of 18 items including plays, ballets and
chorus

songs :—

The following items were presented by DCT Training Centres :—
1. ChOti Lal Koshi
DPS Junior Group, Mathura Road
2.

Kal Mngaya

Lady Irwin Junior School
10

