ence the Sinhala performance of "ABHIBHAVANA"
(The original German title " BIEDERMANN UND DIE BRANDSTI
FTER",
translated into English as "The Fire Raisers") by the
German
speaking Swiss author Max Frisch.
Whereas the work of Max Frisch, undoubtedly belon
ged to the
finest literature of this century, his play "The Fire Raiser
s" has secured a place among the modern world theatre. The i
mmediate
success of its first performance in Zurich in 1958 w
as followed

by productions in more than 70 German language th
eatres in
Europe, and in other languages around the world.
Gottlieb Biedermann, the chief protagonist of the
play is a
wealthy man, a hair lotion manufacturer, who throu
gh fear, cow-

ardice, hypocrisy, feelings of guilt and pretended libera
lity, allows two obviously disreputable characters to stay as
guests in
his house. They proceed in their conversations with Bied
ermann
to tell him that they are bringing cans of petrol into the
attic of
his house and also openly proclaim their intention of sett
ing fire
to the house and the whole town. With the increasing conf
lict of
emotions of fear, desire for peace, and the selfish thoug
ht that
treating these men in a friendly manner could mea
n self—
preservation, Biedermann invites his guests in t
he evening to

share a bottle of wine. As they leave, they ask for mat
ches and
by the next day the host and his house have gone up in sm
oke.

It does not seem easy to classify the play. Theatre crit
ics have
called it a "parable", "comedy" but also "political theat
re" or
"theatre of the absurd". Certainly Frisch's moral purpose
in the
"Fire Raisers" is one of the factors that lead to a more dist
urbing
emotion than we would traditionally expect from a comi
c play.
The implications of many preceding scenes are rather pe
ssimis—
tic, if not cynical. We can certainly not identify with Biederm
ann,
but we can recognise certain common traits of hum
an behaviour

in his actions. So although we might laugh at his repeat
ed dis—
comfiture we can also recognise "The Everymanu element
in his
mentality; This somewhat grotesque element of literary
form
which derives its effects from exaggeration, arouses unea
sy sensations, in which fear, pity or revulsion interrningle w
ith laughter.

The death of Max Frisch on 4th April 1991, silenced
the voice
of a man who was universally understood. Despite d
eriving the
objects of his literary and theatrical observations from
the day-today life in Switzerland, his concern and interests lay
in working

