He has an uncanny feeling about the guest but he does not even
seriously suspect the latter. He says to himself: you want peace
and, as such, you are left with no other option than preventing
any suspicion whatsoever surfacing in your mind. The transvaluation of bourgeois virtues into vices, one of the great discoveries
of THE HRE RAISERS, can already be observed taking place in
this preliminary prose study. What is meant here has been
termed "depraved language" by Werner Weber; "Biedermann
and his wife lose out to the HRE RAISERS because what they
say is not what is meant and because what they mean is not

said. Their language serves not to represent but to dissirnulate.
What they say is a constant allusion to the lost identity of word
and reality. What Biedermann says is not to be taken literally.
That is why he becomes so ridiculous, he can be manipulated in

so outrageous a manner". The comment in the Burlesque on the
fire—raiser gaining admittance, "One must have trust, one should

not always assume the worst at once, in case one does not know
someone", should be understood to mean the exact opposite of
what is said. When Biedermann pleads for trust he is riddled
through and through with distrust. And it is only his cowardice
that blinds him on the one hand and produces the necessary
phrases and virtues that serve to soothe and justify his inaction.
Gottlieb Biedermann — the very name reveals the parodied reduction of world theatre to everyday banality. He is reading the
newspaper, seated in his room and smoking. He is a hair lotion
manufacturer and millionaire. He flares up about the fire raisers
whose actions fill the newspaper columns day after day. Now he
repeats what he had to say on this topic at the regulars' table,
banging his fist hard on the table: "They ought to be strung up.
Haven't I always said so? Another fire .And the same old story as
I live and breathe: another hawker who settles down in the loft,

a harmless hawker". These short sentences contain almost the
whole brilliant exposition of the play. That is to say, what Biederrnann knows on being informed by the newspapers is the
very thing that happens to him in the course of the play. While
he rages against the fire raisers, Anna the servant girl informs
him that a hawker wishes to speak to him. Before Mr. Bieder— 7
mann can get him sent away he stands in the doorway next to
Anna; an athlete, his clothes are reminiscent both of a jail and
circus. Schmidt who is the first fire-raiser to intrude on Mr. Bie— प
derrnann is thus, by no means a person inspiring confidence.

. The shock that he causes and the mild allusions to his wrestler
profession are the first means by which he is able to install himself. That apart, he makes it easier for Biedermann to take the
first step; ostensibly he helps the latter to save face by pretend—
ing to have noted that he is being admitted out of pure humanity. He makes it easy for Mr. Biedermann, who has been taken
by surprise to find a ready excuse. In between he threatens,

