veiled as well as unequivocal: some gentleman who has never

wrestled comes along and takes me by the collar - 'What's the
idea? I ask and merely turn round just to have a look at him, and
already his shoulders broken. (He takes the glass) Cheers! l "
Schmidt leads off in an inirnitably effective manner. It is a mixture of what seems to be servility and obvious irnpertinence that ५
is at once strikingly comic and at the same time captures in para- .
ble fashion the term that typically shocks the citizen:
Schmidt: "The maid told me Mr. Biedermann was going to
throw me out personally, but I couldn't believe you really meant
it Mr. Biedermann .............. "
(Anna has entered)

Biedermann : "Anna, bring a second glass."
Anna : "Very good."
Biedermann : "And some bread - yes."
Schmidt : "And if you don't mind, Miss, some butter. And some

cheese or cold meat or something. Only don't put yourself out.
A few pickled cucumbers, a tomato or something, a little mus-

tard — whatever you happen to have, Miss."

Anna : "Very good."
Schmidt : "Only don't put yourself out".
While Schmidt is swiftly establishing himself in Mr. Biedermann's
house, Anna announces Mr. Knechtling an employee of Bieder—
mann dismissed by the latter because he wanted to have his
share of the profits accruing from the hair lotion invented by him
for Biedermann. Biedermann gets him thrown out.

"Let him instruct a solicitor. l'll instruct a solicitor too. A share in
his invention! Let him put his head in the gas oven or instruct a
solicitor - go ahead - if Mr. Knechtling can afford to lose or win
a case, let him try".
The true Biedermann is shown up here - the Biedermann bereft
of praises invoking humanity and trust with the help of which he
consoles himself for his inability to get rid of Schmidt. And so it
is that he gives Schmidt asylum, and that too in the loft, on condition that he does not make a noise, that Mrs. Biedermann is

suffering from heart disease.
The two men make their way up to the loft quietly, because Bar-

bette Biedermann is back at home. There, Biederman gets his
guest to swear that he isn't a fire raiser. The chorus ends the
scene with the words "Hail to us". Nothing has happened as yet

in the slurnbering city: "No ill so far today".

