The second scene shows the establishment of a reign of terror in
the house of the Biedermann couple. At first Biedermann tries
get to rid of the unwanted guest through his wife, after the latter
has complained: "You are too good natured. I'm not standing for
it, Gottlieb. You let your heart speak, while 1 can sleep all night
long ...... 1 shall give him breakfast but then I shall send him packing, Gottlieb". Terror disguised at once as honesty and servility is
followed by a second camouflage. Schmidt is permitted to remain because he appeals to Mrs. Biedermann's sentimentality.
Touched by his account of his awful youth, she listens and contradicts him when he tearfully bernoans his lack of manners. In
the meantime he announces a second visitor. The scene closes
with Schmidt proclaiming with delight on hearing the doorbell :
"That must be Willie".

The mischief goes on. In the next scene the two of them are
seen piling up containers filled with petrol on the floor. There
they are, the wrestler Schmidt and Willy a former waiter in tails
and all spruced—up, full of so-called fine manners. Together they
make up a forceful duo on stage, a blend of oily servility and
down to earth impudence. Biedermann approaches and flies
into a rage for the first time. Unrnoved, Schmidt comments: "
He has never been like this before Eisenring, the waiter takes
the wind out of the former's sails by simply passing on Biedermann's accusations to Schmidt in an all too reproachful tone of
voiceThe two gangsters also do not even attempt to lie to Biederrnann about the containers. The unmoved and matter of
course manner in setting about their business takes him unawares. Quite logically they take his cowardice for granted. Biederrnann is speechless. In the meantime a policemen has entered the hall down below in order to report to Mr. Biedermann
on the suicide of his former employee Knechtling.

Biedermann now shields the fire raisers out of cowardice and a
bad conscience making himself thus an accomplice in the eyes
of the police. He maintains that there is hair lotion in the petrol
containers that threaten his own house. But even in this instance
the cheerless hero has a ready answer to the question of the
chorus as to why he tolerates all this. " People shouldn't always
think the worst. Where will that lead? I want peace and quiet,
that's all, and as to the two gentlemen quite apart from the fact
that l have other worries just now ..... In short, gentlemen, I've
had enough of you and your fire raisers! I never go to the local
any more, I'm fed up with it. Can't people find anything else to
talk about nowadays ? After all I've only got one life. If we take
every one we meet, except ourselves, for a fire raiser, how are

things ever going to improve ? Damm it all, we must have a little
trust, a little good will. That's what 1 think. We must not always
look on the black side. Darnrn it all, not every body is a fire raiser. That's what I think. A little trust, a little. . . ."

