This verbose statement of confidence is a kind of ill—fitting mask
meant to hide Biedermann's unmitigated fear. He actually admits .
at one and the same time that he is simply unable to sleep at
I night ever since, the men are in his house. The fire raisers, how—
ever, continue making preparations with an ever increasing non—

chalance. And Biederman can think of nothing better than fra—
ternising with them to an even greater degree. He hopes to
avoid trouble by making them his friends. Thus he orders a ban—
quet for them with roast goose and the best wine.
The logical aggravation of the grotesque situation where BiederV mann's cordiality to the gangsters keeps increasing in proportion
to the latter's increasingly open expression of their true inten' tions is worked out in the drama in an exemplary manner. In the
loft the increasingly helpless Biedermann becomes the accom—
plice of the fire raisers. Together with Eisenring he is seen look—
ing for the priming—cap, holding the fuse and listening jovially
when told that Schmidt has gone out to fetch more fuse. Eisenring even reveals to him his rnodus operandi : " Joking is the
third best method of hoodwinking people. The second best is
sentimentality. The kind of stuff our Joe goes in for - a child-

में

३

_
-

hood with charcoal burners in the forest, an orphanage, the cir—

cus and so on. But the best and safest method - in my opinion is to tell the plain unvarnished truth. Oddly enough it can rest assured that the victim will not believe what it senses and suspects. ‘ Cowardice simply prevents one admitting the truth. Even as yet ’
Biedermann has words of consolence ready because as far as he
is concerned, what should not exist cannot in fact exist. At the
banquet he makes common cause with the crooks, ostensibly in .

order to prevent the worst. Gradually every single mask shielding
है the actions of the fellow — traveller is torn aside. Biedermann .
continues on his threadbare path to the bitter and wretched end.

The play finds a convincing and effective means of representing
on stage this progressively shabby behaviour. When the maid is
setting about laying the table in a grand manner, Biedermann है
prohibits any kind of luxury so that his guests would feel quite at
home : he says, " Silver! ( He stares at the bucket and then at

Anna ) Do we always have this ?"

Anna replies : "Yes, you need it, Mr. Biedermann". Biedermann
' continues: " Need! What do you mean, need ? what we need is
humanity, brotherhood. Away with it".
In the meantime the wreath that Biedermann has ordered for .
the dead Knechtling has been delivered at his own house, with a
. wrongly inscribed ribbon on it. It is, as it were, the writing on the ’

wall represented on the stage in form of a "funny" comment. But

Biedermann fails to see even this warning.

