The gala dinner with the gangsters turns into a shabby fraternisa—
tion, a complete surrender on Biedermann's part. He is seen

laughing at the allusions to fire-raisers made by his guests and at ३
their very effective jokes. He bawls out a silly and vulgar song
with them and finally even hands them the matches the latter
then use to set his house and the city on fire. In the meantime
_ the suburbs are already on fire and the fire—brigade drives past,
their sirens at full blast. "If they were really fire-raisers, do you
think they wouldn't have matches?" So it is that Biedermann
consoles himself and his wife for the last time before they perish
in the flames.
. Before this happens Frisch sends on stage an intellectual, the
third ally of the fire raisers, who now reads out his manifesto di- '

rected against the latter as he has found out that their fire-raising
is not done for ideological reasons but for pleasure alone. The
Doctor of Philosophy whose proclamation cannot be understood
because it is drowned by the sound of the sirens is a variation of
Frisch's basic type - the powerless intellectual. The character attains the status of a parable-figure representing the intellectual
‘ preparing the way for the takeover of power. This same intel—
lectual who pioneers terror in words, protests horrified yet inef. fective when the same terror has become a reality, saying he did
not want it that way.

I The subtitle of the play reads : A morality without a moral. The
hero of the play, Biedermann, is unteachable. Although openeyed, he remains blind due to his cowardice. He tries to avoid
his downfall by actually helping to produced it himself. Frisch
raises this blindness, so to speak, to the scale of a generic char-

acteristic. He not only demonstrates this absence of perception
३ and effect in his play, he does not also believe in the ability to ef- ।
fect a change by way of the play. In this manner, the parable
I whose form Frisch has taken over from Brecht is directed to dis-

proving the optimism that made Brecht think that theater chang—
es the World and teaches the audience. Instead Frisch, even as a

dramatist pictures himself in the role that he assigns the intellec—
tual in his plays; they preach to deaf ears; no body listens to
them. Nevertheless, one cannot, I think, interpret the term " Mo-

rality without Moral " as being a strict revocation Brecht's morality play intentions. It is probably more expression of Frisch's
more careful assessment of the effects of theatre. It probably
" means too that by means of his provocative proclamation of the
unteachableness of the audience he really wishes to provoke reactions. The play " Biederrnann " is meant to be at least the
' model of a warning. It is a model whose applicability is not exhausted in trying to trace the seizure of power by German Fas—
cism in theatre form. Friedrich Luft has drawn our attention to
it's many sided applicability: "One can apply the moral of the
Morality without a moral, to the most recent past.

