with in Germany, which was greater than he ever experienced in
Switzerland, shaped his relationship with the country and its trust
in him - as is demonstrated in the "Journal 1946-1949". Max
Frisch was never so much in fashion that he could have become
old—fashioned. His dislike of the prestigious and his need to surprise himself endow even his late work with inner tension and life
from sentence to sentence. Much that was of contemporary rele—
vance — and not just in the early place - has nevertheless long become a part of history. As a writer for the theatre Frisch didn't
have the decisiveness with which his Swiss friend and antipode,

Friedrich DUrrenmatt, could make his mark. It was the very possibilities of playful variation, of maintaining openness of form,
which stimulated Frisch's delight in theatre, that at the same time

hindered the decisive coup. Some of his favourite projects ( " The
Chinese Wall " and " Count Oderland "), cherished for years, thus
never achieved compelling form, and even his most famous piece

"Andorra", a parable of anti—semitism, demonstrates great striving
I
rather than complete achievement.

When talking about himself, Max Frisch liked using the pronoun
"one". That didn't just involve casual understatement, but also hes.l

itation over asserting

l है". For him "I" wasn't some established

magnitude, but rather the unknown attempting to circumscribe

his life and work, to plumb his limits and possibilities. The work of
Frisch the story—teller found its centre, its coherence, its constan-

cy, in this I, out of which the author unfolded his world:

"a never ending conversation with himself, a rolegame with his
own person and with invented identities, a journal of hypotheses
about life, some of which proliferated into attaining the authono—
my of novels.
"Stiller",the adventure novel of a flight from one's own identity;

"Homo Faber the story of man who succumbs to his repressed
past; and "My Name is Gantenbein", the dissolution of a biogra—

phy in the kaleidoscope of its possibilities - Those are the novels
in which Frisch's fundamental theme, the indissoluble interplay be—
tween lived life and literary fiction, found its form. "Everyone
sooner or later invents for himself a story which he looks upon as

his life".The degree to which autobiographical elements nourished
his fictions was revealed (in his "Journal 1966—1971", his story
"Montauk", and elsewhere) to the point of mercilessness: the first
marriage which was deterrninedly bourgeois, and the late second
marriage which for a few years was a happy adventure. ln be—
tween the long connection with lngeborg Bachmann, and other
escapades before, between, and after. Frisch was a man who
loved women.
The game of variants of life lost its charm as the years passed, en- '
gulfed as it was by the mounting totality of what was irrevocably
past. Time made Frisch into a chronicler of ageing, who saw the
end with composure: "Death does not permit any more variants".
On the 4th of April, six week before his 80th birthday, he died in
ZUrich after a long illness.

