श्या

श्या

ABOUT SHRI RAM CENTRE
Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what
was originally known as the Indian National Theatre in
1948 heralding a revival in the lndian cultural scene. A
leading cultural organization, its objective is to nurture
and develop talent in the performing arts and its
programmes are organised towards this end.

THEATRE RE PE RTO RY :
Started in 1980, in SRC Repertory has blossomed into
one of the leading companies of the country. The
repertoire of oustanding plays performed by the repertory
including Sakhararn Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya
Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda have
contributed significantly to Hindustani drama in the
country. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, the
Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other parts of
the country.

The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional,
western and modern plays in various styles and forms
under the direction of such eminent theatre directors as
Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Rajendranath, BM. Shah,
Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has performed
of Hindi plays since its inception.

AC T I NG COURSE :
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre
for Performing Arts conducts a two year part time training
programmes. The 1 st year is devoted to. in-depth study
of all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic
theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on
lndian-classical, experimental, Western and modern—
lndian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team
of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatres future. Students
who complete the course with exellent grades are either
absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School
of Drama or the Media.

CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP :
The SRC Children’s Theatre Workshop is a one-month
production oriented workshop conducted during summer
vacation every year under the guidance of a renowed
Camp director. This feature is aimed to impart theatrical
values to children and to improve their communication
skills.

SRC KAVI SAMMELAN :
Every year the Shri Ram Centre organizes a Kavi
Sarnrnelan. Eminent Poets like Neeraj, Bal Kavi Bairagi,
Ashok Chakradhar and others grace the occasion with
their poetry. The Kavi Samrnelan is held in the honour
of Late Lala Shri Ram.
l

W
स्था

