THE WORLD THEATRE DAY
First in Helsinki and later in Vienna ( IXth Congress, June 19.61) President Arvi Kivimaa proposed
in the name of the Finnish Centre and with the support of the Scandinavian Centres, that a
World Theatre Day be created. This proposal was adopted by acclamation.

The Secretary General of the organization has often had occasion to admit that he did not believe in
the possibility of such a venture and, in fact, it is a long way from the generous idea expressed before
an enthusiastic congress, to the reality of the facts in over ﬁfty countries. It seemed practically
impossible to carry out. However .. .. year in, year out, on March 27th, World Theatre Day is
celebrated in 80 to 100 countries.

In 1962, 50 countries and 60 radio stations participated in the ﬁrst World Theatre Day.

In 1969,

65 countries and 83 stations participated and from 1968 the numbers varied from i 75 to 85 countries
and 120 to 150 radio and television outlets.

Each year, on this occasion, there appear hundreds of articles in the world press, along with numerous
posters
commemorating the event.
The traditional International Message has had for its author, successively, Jean, Cocteau, Arthur Miller,
Laurence
Olivier, J. L. Barrault, Rene Maheu, Helene Weigel, Shostakovich, Miguel Angel Asturias, peter Broo
k, Pablo
Neruda, Maurice Bejart, Luchino Visconti, Richard Burton, Ellen Stewart, Eugene Ionesco and Radu Beligan.
Printed

in theatre programmes and in news papers. retransmitted on the radio and television, translated
into 12 to 15
languages, this message enjoyed a very wide dessemination.

Faced with the ever increasing difﬁculty of ﬁnding authors who are known all *over the world, it has been
decided
that as from 1978 each country would have its own message ...... a national character but internatit nally in
Spired.
Over the years, besides the oﬂicial ceremonies and theatrical events, there have been initiatives of a mo
re inventive
kind : in 1962 France issued a postage stamp for the World Theatre Day, Morocco did likewise in
1970. in 1963

India postmarked all envelopes with a seal commemorating
understanding”.

“the Theagire — Instrument of peace and mutual

Australia rebroadcast on its 44 regional stations Euripedes" “The Trojan Women”.

In certain

\

( Continued on Back Cover Inside)

