G U R U PA DA H A L DA R

3 EC R ETA R Y

333
(कें 33

We feel much pleasure this evening again to see the success of the celebration
of the World Theatre Day 85, The major part of our success is due to Mr. Rajanv
his dynamic ideas, able guidance and expert way of designirg the whole Project
and executing them on time. We are really lucky to have him as Director of Theatre
And Film Unit Bombay. He is the most youngest and well known theatre eXpert and
scholar in India a celebrated young and dynamic director. writer and Actor and has
been working for stage Film, Radio and Television got a_ number of awards on
various occasions a merit scholarship holder graduate and product of the National
School of Drama. Delhi an Asian Theatre Institute. According to him “Theatre And
Film are two of the best medias we have to day which can be used as an effective
instrument for the wider range of communication and expression if they are used
properly. ”He joined films not because he wanted name fame and glamour but
desires to rcach more and more people with this bigger media of communication
and expression to dlscuss and work to-gether for the solution of the problems
of to—day. He would like to use theatere to discover himself-this has to a large
extent been achieved and brought him in the closer contact with the lives,
problems and expressions of the commcn man............” He has got vast range of
eXperience of human lives and their sufferings and is very mush aware of the
urban as well as of rural lives and culture of India. At one end he finds himself
very much in close contact with the village life because he has Spent quite a long
time in different villages of India but at the same time he is extremely concerned
with the modern city life. He is the only youngest scholar of India searching the
meaning and eXpression of life through the Theatre And Film and almost dedicated
his whole life for the same. He has proved his talent on Radio Television stage
and Films too as an Actor writer and director.

