ritusamharam
(Based on Mahakavi Kalidasa's
Ritusam haram)
The Poet:

Saint poet Jaideva writing about Mahakavi Kalidasa says, "Poetry
was a child of llalrrriki who was groomed and nurtured and
brought to the enlightened world along with errrbellishments of
nurrrerous forms and hues of leelas by Bhagwan Ved Vyasa. lhat
darrrsel of muse (Kavita Kanya) with glittering orrrarrrentations

and adorrrrrrents of llidharaba tradition, on her own accord,
accepted Kalidasa as her bridegroom".

Sixth century poet Kalidasa's gems of his poetic genius in
Sanskrit literature that have been acknowledged world over and
presented on stage in numerous translations include works like
Abhignan Shakuntalam, Malavikagnimitram, Meghdootam,
Bitusamharam, Kumarsambhav, Vikrarrraorvashiyarrr, etc. etc.

Th e Play:
Based on 'Bitusamharam' by Kalidasa, this play is a description
of lrrdiarr cycle of seasons, portraying the close interaction of
life and nature. Kalidasa writes about the six seasons: ﬁrishma,
Varslra, Sharad, llerrrarrta, Shishir, Vasarrta in graphic details.
It narrates, in impeccable detail, the impact of seasons not only
on the lrurrrarr psyche, animals' and birds' behaviour but also on
other arrirrrate or inanimate things like insects, flora and laurra.
His poetic images are insightful, graphic and powerful.
Director’s note:

A narrative poem by birth, ' Bitu' is not a play in the conventional
sense. Kalidasa describes six seasons in as rrrarry episodes and
they are being presented in visual interpretation as it is. Each
episode is corrrplete in itself. There is no tangible story line and
there is no effort to create one.
The performances try to underline the fact that all hurrran energy
is derived from the nature. Now that man is isolating himself and
rrroving away from nature, he is loosing that power and energy
that be derived from the bountiful nature.

It is a simple expression, through his own vocabulary, of a director
who lives in a corrterrrporary world. It is that sirrrple.

