Scene Synopsis of The Blind Age
Prologue: The Chorus enters singing invocations to the Almighty. In the
aftermath of the devastating war between the Pandavas and the Kauravas,
a new era, full of darkness, injustice and immorality has been ushered in.
This is the story of that post-war society as narrated through the medium
of the blind.
The Kaurvas Capital: Two weary Kaurava soldiers are keeping vigil,
guarding deserted roads and an empty palace. Their weapons are of no use.
The Kaurava womenfolk, who once treaded on the bejeweled carpet inside
the royal palace of Kaurava as blushing brides are now all widows. The old
blind king has lost the respect of all of his subjects. The entire kingdom is
ﬁlled with disease and deformity. The soldiers have been sentinels to this
emptiness for | 7 days now. The sky is filled with an ominous cloud so
dark it blots out the sun. It is a cloud of vultures crossing the Kaurava sky
towards the battle ﬁeld of Kurukshetra to feast on the ﬂesh of the corpses
of those fallen in battle. Vidur, the King’s brother, enters and asks if the king
has seen this horrible omen.

Kaurava Palace: The blind king, Dhritarashtra and his blind-folded
Queen, Gandhari, are silently waiting for Sanjay to bring the message of
defeat or victory and narrate the tale of the ﬁnal day of battle. Vidur enters
and accuses Dhritarashtra of being responsible for the decimation of the
entire Kaurav army in the | 7-day battle of Kurukshetra.
Dhritarashtra will not admit he was wrong. He defends himself by saying
that he was born blind and as such does not know the realities of the world.
He claims his perception of the outside world is merely something he has
conjured with his imagination. He speaks of the tale of his enemy Bhisma
drawing apart the chest of his son Dushashna and drinking his blood. He
says that he has no way of truly grasping this story because he cannot
visualize it Vidur says that the kingdom’s utter ruin is the consequence
of Dhritarashta not heeding the advice of the Lord Krishna. But Queen
Gandhari will not stand for this explanation. She claims that there is no justice or virtue left and that hypocrisy is everywhere even in Lord Krishna.

The Mendicant enters. He is an astrologer who predicted the future of the
war. He laments that all of his predictions have been made false because
the unanticipated involvement of the superior forces of the Gods has
thrown off the balance of nature. Yet he is optimistic. He believes that his
predictions cannot be completely wrong and continues to predict victory
for Duryodhana, her only son out of ICC sons still alive. Gandhari rewards
him for this.

