him that Ashwasthama has gone to fetch the Brarnhashtra (a nuclear bomb).
Not satisfied with his revenge yet, Ashwastharna begins to tell Duryodhana
how he will complete the revenge. Duryodhana dies. Ashwasthama vows
to make his revenge complete by rendering the Pandavas completely extinct,
killing their Queen Uttara. Gandhari removes the bandage covering her eyes

and she insists Sanjay show Aswastharna to her. However, at the moment of
Duryodhana’s death, Sanjay loses his gift of divine vision and cannot show
Gandhari Ashwastharna.

Ashwasthama’s anger crosses all limits and he

challenges Lord Krishna and quickly departs followed by Kripacharya and
K r itva rma.

Ashwasthama Shoots Bramhastra: Ashwasthama throws the
Brahmastra, a nuclear weapon. The god, Vyas, berates him for doing this and
tells him that the earth will be destroyed and the entire human race dwarfed
because of his actions. The devastating after effect of Brahrnhastra causes
deformity and disease to many future generations to come.
The Curse of Gandarl: Ashwastharna is afﬂicted with disease by Krishna’s
curse for shooting the horrible Brahmastra. Queen Gandhari, accompanied by
Vidur, Sanjay and the Kaurava widows arrives as the battle field of Kurukshetra
in search of the dead body of Duryodhana. They see Ashwastharna who crawls
away in pain. Gandhari accuses Lord Krishna of being responsible for all that
has transpired, saying that, if he so desired, he could have averted the battle
entirely. She curses Lord Krishna proclaiming that he will die a beastly death.
Lord Krishna tells her that he himself is the personification of both life and
death and to him there is no difference between them and he gladly accepts
the curse of Gandhari.
Epilogue: The Mendicant incarnated as a hunter comes across Lord Krishna
relaxing and mistakes his foot for the head of a clear. The hunter shoots Lord
Krishna with his arrow and morally wounds him. Gandhari’s curse has come true.

Director’s Note:
This production is the culmination of a brief six week period over which I had
the opportunity with Assistant Director lbochouba Meetei to introduce to this
group of Fordham students a modern Indian classic written by one of the most
Important Indian poets and playwrights, Dharmavir Bharati and translated by
Tripurari Sharma. This production process gives equal importance to the words
and movements while interpreting the text We are pleased to be able to show
you this work as a result of that very brief rehearsal/workshop period.

