Separations (PSM), Chamber Music (PSM), Dirt and
Whiskey (Costume Designer), Cakeston (Costume
Designer). Thanks to my mommy (and Joel), l6F,
D & M, and Larry for giving a production major
a chance.

poetry and reviews. Writing led him to theatre. In l 97 I , he enrolled at the National
School of Drama in Delhi, gaining a reputation as a powerful actor and director. He
established Chorus Repertory Theatre (CRT)
in April I976 in his native Manipur, a hill-state

Shadae Lamar “Skyah” Smith (The
Old Mendicant, Voice of Shankar, Hunter)
Malnstage: Faustus/Faustus (Gluttony and
More). Studio: Respectﬁrl Prostitute (The
Negro). Other: The Amen Corner (Luke) and
Dreamgirls (Ensemble) at Joseph Caleb Center,
Ain’t Misbehavin (Dancer) and Ann Reinking’s
Broadway 2004 (Ensemble) at Tampa Bay
Performing Arts CenterzThanks to God, my family,
past teachers, and the theatre faculty at Ford ham.

in northeastern India. Bordered by Bhutan,

Taylor Steel (Chorus) Mainstage:
Tsunami (Marlena Langlands), Zoyka’s Apartment
(Agnessa Ferapontovna), Pains of Youth (Lucy),
Faustuleaustus (ASM). Studio: Miguel Pinero’s
Side Show (PSM), The Dreamer Examines His
Pillow (PSM), The Zoo Story (ASM). Other: Les
Miserables (Ensemble/Dramaturge), Pippin (PSM)
at DPHS. Film: Mickey Lee (PA), Mystic Nights &
Pirate Fights (Suzie). Thanks to the incredible cast
and crew, Mom and Dad - Thank you.
Amelia Workman is a sophomore performance major: She made her debut on the mainstage last year in Faustuleaustus as Mephistophilis.
She would like to thank the cast, production staff,
and crew for all of their support

Satomi Yamauchi (Chorus) Satomi is a
senior performance major. Many thanks to
the cast and crew.

Ratan Thiyam (Director) is one of the
most important and inﬂuential theatre makers at work in the international performance
scene. Renowned for its disciplined performance practice, spectacular aural and visual
esthetic, and potent thematic explorations,
Thiyam’s work has placed him in the cornpany of such ﬁgures as Suzuki, Brook, and
Grotowski. Thiyam studied painting before
turning to writing. He published his ﬁrst of
six novels in l 96 l at the age of 22, and wrote

Bangladesh, and Burma, Manipur is one of the
world’s most isolated and unfamiliar areas,
rich in centuries-old traditions of dance, theatre, music, martial arts, and literature. It has
also been in turmoil for decades — rife with
internal struggles. Within this environment,

and with severely limited ﬁnancial resourtes,
Chorus Repertory Theatre was founded and
makes its work. “Our plays are completely
entwined with our history, mythical and real,”
says Thiyam, “and a continuous search for a
better human condition, for peace.”
Thiyam’s I986 Chakravyuha, performed
nearly l 00 times around the globe, thrust
CRT into the global spotlight. The company
has played highly acclaimed engagements in
Paris and London and at such theatre festivals
as Avignon and Adelaide. They have toured
throughout the United States, including an
engagement at Brooklyn Academy of Music as
part of the Next Wave Festival.
Ratan Thiyam’s intense and holistic production style embraces traditional Manipuri
forms as well as other methods, developed
over time to support CRT’s esthetic approach.
Emphasis on vocal and breath techniques,
and in physical stamina and control, provide
the means to accomplish impressive aural
and movement feats. Thiyam's works are
tightly chereographed; his actors must physically push the limits of character. Language in
Thiyam’s plays goes beyond the simple conveyance of text. Words are as important for
their aural power as for their actual meaning.
The playing space is magniﬁed through cornplex and changing use of movement, sound,
color. and light. '
An article by Erin Mee in American Theatre
Magazine described Thiyam’s productions as
“visually poetic and aurally muscular, making
dazzling use of sound, music, rhythm and
color. Thiyam’s work engages all the senses
— it is ‘total theatre’."

