Hall), The Return ofLot’s Wife for Sara Pearson
,
e)
yc
Jo
he
(T
y
an
mp
Co
d
an
ig
dr
Wi
ik
tr
Pa
d
an
Grounded and Desiderata, choreographed by
Kara Tatelbaum, independentdancemakerU
oyce Soho and St Mark’s Church). Feature
ﬁlm credis include The Hebrew Hammer
(Sundance Film Festival 2003), Bought and
Sold (TriBeCa Film Festival 2003) and Heart of
Gold (independent Film Festival, Elche. Spain).
Film credits as an assistant include Gingerbread
Man, Beloved, Washington Square, The Jackal
Contact, For Richer or Poorer. and Species 2.
Ms. Phillips is a recipient of the 2003-05TCG
Career Development Program and holds an
MFA in costume design from NYU, Tisch
School of the Arts. She is a full time assistant
professor of design here at Fordham.

lbochouba Meetel (Assistant Director)
Senior-most performer and technical expert
of Chorus Repertory Theatre, lmphal, India,
Meetei was trained in the repertory company
under the guidance of Ratan Thiyam and has
been involved in most of the productions of
the company for the last 28 years both as
an actor and a technical expert. Meetei has
travelled widely and participated in many major International Theatre Festivals around the
globe with CRT.
Dharamavlr Bharatl (Playwright) One
of the pioneers of modern Hindi literature,
Dhararnavir Bharati (I 926-l997) is renowned
as a novelist, poet and dramatist. He was
since I 960. editor of Dhannyug, a leading Hindi
weekly. His notable works are the novel Suraj
Ka Satvan Ghoda (The Seventh Horse of the
Sun), a collection of poems titled Kanupriya, in
addition to the verse-play Andha Yug (The Blind
Age) which has been acknowledged as a milestone in Hindi literature. Preservation of human values has been his passionate concern in
all his writings. The BlindAge is a play about the
consequences of war, the physical and moral
devastation it brings, destroying both the victor and the vanquished by its debasing and
dehumanising effect on the individual and the
society. The idea has been projected against
the backdrop of the great Mahabharata war of
ancient times, through a ruthless and searchi ng examination of the mou'ves and conduct
of its principal participants and their situation
during its concluding days.

Chad McArver (Lighting Designer)
Off- Broadway: Biro directed by Peter
DuBois, The Gypsy and The Yellow Canary
directed by George C. Wolfe at The New
York Shakespeare Festival; Life directed
by Daisy Prince at The Beckett Theatre,
Living in the Wind (AU DELCO Nomination)
directed by Reggie Life, SpokeMan directed
by Wynn Handman, and Stonewall Jackson’s
House directed by Jamie Richards at The
American Place Theatre. On Broadway
as Associate Lighting Designer for Howell
Binkley: Parade, directed by Harold Prince;
and Minnelli on Minnelli, directed by Fred Ebb.
On Broadway as Associate Scenic Designer
for Riccardo Hernandez: Elaine Stn‘tch at
Liberty, and Top Dog Underdog both directed
by George C Wolfe. International credits
include Eun Me Ahn Dance in Seoul South
Korea, Haunted directed bv Casey Lim in
Singapore. Mr. McArver is a full time assistant
professor of lighting and scenic design here at
Fordham University Lincoln Center. Recent
designs include Faustuleaustus directed by
Matthew Maguire, Zoyka’s Apartment directed
by Annie Dorsen, The Misanthrope directed
by Eva Patton, Angels ln America directed by
Julie Boyd, Better Living directed by Elizabeth
Margid, Guys and Dolls directed by Marcia
Milgrorn Dodge, A Midsummer Night’s Dream
directed by Lawrence Sacharow, and King
Lear directed by Karin Coonrod.

Tripurarl Shanna (Translator) was born
in I956, graduated in English Literature from
Delhi University, and holds a diploma from the
National School of Drama, where she is currently involved as Associate Professor: She is
a well known playwright and director in her
own right with plays like Bahri, Kath Ki Gadi
and Reshmi Rumaal to her credit.
Michelle R. Phllllps (Costume Designer)
People Be Heard directed by Erica Schmidt
(Playwrights Horizons); Trust by Gary
Mitchell directed by Erica Schmidt (PlayCo;
Theater Row); Rain, a new opera by Richard
Owen, directed by Sam Helfrich (Alice Tully
10

