Waiahat conferred Lohia Sahitya Samman
86 other litterateurs also felicitated
PNS a LUCKNOW Tl

which hademerged from the huge rtth-

‘ .
Minister [at Vocational Education and Kaushal Vlkas Abhishek Misliia Inauguratingthe [elicitation lunction

My next play will now be on
'l'ulsidas: Asghar Waiahat
Happy on being conferred Lohia Samman
PN S I L UCKNO W

Litterateur Asghar Wajahat, who was conferred the Lohia
Samman on Wednesday at the Hindi Sansthan where 87
men of letterswere felicitated is working on a playon 'l'ulsidas.
The writer, who as eady penn a few scenes of the
lay while talking to The Pioneer, said that hewould be high lighting two aspects through his play which included the ३
deniocratisation of an ideaand the relation between state and
" 1 will put forth the idea ofdcrnocratisation ofan idea
wherein 'ltilsidas translatedthe Ramayanainto aconunon lanr
५
guage which could reach out to the people. The second is the idea of the rela»
tion between the state and the art wherein the writer had been invited to the
Mughal emperors' court but he refused to go. I have carried out my research
from history and \mrious texts." he said.
On being asked ifhe had faced op osition from the fundamentalists for his
writings. Asghar saidthat he had not gcedany opposition. “I have always been
against all kinds offundamentalist ideologies." e a e . '
The writer said that hewas ha py after receivin the award“This is the highest award and I am ha y to have een r'ecoguised or my work. ।belong to Uttar
Pradesh and my worfhas been appreciated in my state," he said.
He further stated that there was a need to have good books in Hindi at the
school level in order to make the language more popular. “it is important to have
good books at the school level to make Hindi popular. Earlier there were good
ooks in Hindi but it is not so now,” he said.
The writer said that it was important to make Hindi the language ofknowl~
edge in the world . ‘It is important to carry out a lot oftrahslation work and
to write on Important issues to make the presence of indiafelt on the interna-

tional scene."

erty that he had created through c
bookshe had read which were written by
me," he stated.
'
_ since 1962. saith "Ihe youth is verymuch
Seventyﬂve-year—old Nand Ktshore interested in reading about the new
Khanna. who has been writing on art trends and discussions on the re-evalu-

P—3 ﬁ—v ८-११५८

I
mister for Vocational Education and
Kaushnl Vikas Abhishck Mishra
said here on Wednesday that the works
which were penned by the writers and
authors were remembered for generations
together. He said that when culture, art
and literature were not given a proper
platform then actual development ofthe
state was not POSSll) c.
The minister expressed these views
at a programme organised at the Hindi
Sansthan where 87 litterateurs were
felicitated in 46 categories with a total
amount of Rs 1.20 crore.
The minister also highlighted the
various efforts being made by the state
government for the betterment of the
writers. The acting president of Hindi
Sansthaii. Udai Pratap Singh, spoke
about its various achievements.
Among those who were felicitated on
the oocaswn. Included Asghar Wayahat,
who was conferred the Lohia Sahitya
Samman, Sherjung Garg. who was conferred the Hindi Gaurav Samman, Dr
Ganga Prasad Vimal, who was conferred
the Mahatma Gandhi Sahitya Samman,
and Dr Deen Mohammed Deen who was
conferred the Avanti Bai Sahitya
Samman.
The Hindi Prachar Sabha,
Hyderabad, received the Rajshri
Purshottam Tandon Samman. The Lok
Bhushari Award was given to Kailash
_ Madbauya. Kala Bhushan to Nand
Kishore Khanna and the Vidyri llhushan
to Rarnanand Verma.
The Sahitya Bhushans were given to
Ramakant Pandey ‘Akele,’ Sanjeev.
Ravindra Verma, Damodar Dutt Dixit,
Donesh Paliwal. Vijay Kishore Manav,
Rayaram Sin h, Rajendra Rajan.
Maheshwari C aturvedi and Sudhakar
Adeeb.
Talking to The Pioneer. Kali Shankar,
a former [SRO scientist. who was awarded the Vigyan Bhushan, said that he started writing in Hindi so that the public
could be made aware of what was happening in the area ofscience.
Shailendra Kumar Awasthi from the
Allahabad High Court who was awarded the Vidlii Bhushan, said that he had
written several books on civil laws.
c rirninal law and taxation laws in simple
Hindi and श्या now workin on banking
and cyber law. Awasthi w 0 has been
'ven several awardssaid that hewas now
coking into the respect of taking it full
time. “I have had)some very memorable
experiences regardin the feedbackwhich
1 have receive forrriy books. One ofthe
readers told rue as to how he a himselffou t all the property-related cam

l
|
ation ofart. I also make the effort to tell '
the students on why a particular artist is
called great." hesaid.

