The Direct or

की

Born on 6thjuly, 1928 at Almora (U.P.) Shri Moha
n
Upreti obtained his Master's degree in Diplomac
y and
International Affairs and Senior Diploma in Hindu
stani
classical Vocal Music from Allahabad University
.
Shri Upreti is a multi-faceted personality. He
is
a. music composer, teacher, director, folk
lorest,

singer,writer, advisor. Founder director of
Lok
Kalakar Sangha, Almora, he was Programme Direc
—
tor, Sriram BharatiyaKala Kendra New Delhi (1964
—
1973). Associate Professor of Music: National Scho
ol
of Drama (1977—1990).Visiting Professor of Music
at
the Institute of Advanced Studies in Educ
ation,

jarnia Millia Islarnia, New Delhi (1992-99 He was
also the Producer, Folk Theatre Festival organised

by Bharatiya Natya Sangh, New Delhi (1961) and
Music Director of Folk Dance Ensemble, Govern—

ment of India, Department of Culture (1974—75).
Shri Upreti has done extensive work in
preservation and presentation of folk songs and
dances of Kumaon.His experience of adaptation of
folk lore of Central Himalayan Region to
contemporary stage includes music composition for

folk operatic plays presented by Parvatiya Kala
Kendra. New Delhi, They include Rajula Malushahz'.
Ajuwa Bafaula, Rasik Ra77zol,]eetu Baga'wal, Bhana

Gangnath etc.
Shri Upreti has composed music for ballets and
plays presented by Songr & Drama Division, Hindustani
Theatre, Abhiyan, Yatrik, Prayog and National School
of Drama. Plays include Bhagirath, Mudra Rakshas,

Mohan upreti

Ghasi Ram Kotwal, Mahanirvan, A na'ha
Yug,
Skandgupta, Danton ’3 Death, Mother, Caucacean
Chalk

Circle MashrioiHoor, Uttarramcharz't, Gandhi, Kanuprz'ya
etc.

His directorial ventures apart from Ina’er Sabha,
include Vana’e Matram—multi—media show for Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Rami, Megha'oot, Ramlila, Bhana
Ganganath, Jeetu Bagaa’wal, Rasik Ramola etc. Shri
Upreti has written scripts for many dance-dramas
produced by Sriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, NewDelhi,
including Sitayan, Mirahai, Sura’as, Krishnavat
ar,

Urvashi, Megha’oot etc. His published works include
Malushahi-the Ballad of Kumaon, Kumaoni Lok Geet,

Folk Songs of Kumaon for Hindi Sahitya Ka Vrihad
Itihaas.
Shri Upreti has received Bharatiya Natya Sangh
Award for Music Direction (1981), UP. Sangeet Natak
Award for Folk Dance (1985), Sumitra Nandan Pant
Award for services to Kurnaoni (1987), North Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi, Award for Theatre Music (1991)
Yash Bharati Sarnman of UP. Government (1994) He
has been conferred Ratan Sadasyata (Fellowship) of
the UP. Sangeet Natak Akademi for his adaptations
of folk ballads for contemporary stage in 1994, He was
honoured, by Almora Municipal Committee in 1992.
Shri Upreti, who has visited 22 countries as leader

of the cultural delegations is presently President and
Hon. Director of Pawatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi
and Vice—President of UP. Sangeet Natak Akademi,
Lucknow.

