and women who can make these plans work.
MBA is giVing men the incentive to be honest and
unselfish enough to make economic plans work.

Questions and answers on MRA
What is Moral lie-Armament ?

Moral Re—Armament gives everyone a chance
burld a new world. It represents absolute

Why do you need absolute moral standards ?

standards of honesty, purity, unselfishness and love

A standard that is not absolute is not a standard.
One would not like to live in the vicinity of Bhakra
Nangal Dam if each engineer had used relative
standards in its construction. Absolute standards

to

applied personally and nationally.
Every per—
son wants to see the other person change.
One class wants to see the other class change.
Nations are keen to see other nations different.
The most practical and revolutionary place to
start is with yourself. Moral Re-Armament is a
global force of men and women committed to
doing God's will and determined to bring about
social, economic, national and international changes—all based on personal change.

are to this revolution what scrubbing of hands is
to a surgeon about to perform an operation. They
are not the ultimate aim but they are essential‘ if
you want to clean up the nation.
Who is the leader of MBA ?

Moral
When did it start ?

In 1 E‘ 38 when nations were re—arming themsel—
ves militarily, an American, Dr. Frank Buchman,
had the conviction that the next great development in the world would be ’a movement of moral

and spiritual re—armz-rment'.
Moral Re—Armament.

The press

called it

Re—Armament is teamwork in action.

Nothing binds anyone to M RA except a voluntary
commitment to this idea and to a world fellowship
of people committed to the same aim. No one

is paid. Many people all over the world feel unitedly responsible for it.
Is MBA religious 7,
M RA is a common platform for all men

It has a four point programme :

yourself.

2.

1.

Change

Change others. 3. Save a crumbling

civilisation. 4.

Beach the

who

want to see a different world. It is not a new reli—
gion but a new determination to put age old prin—

What is its programme 7

millions.

ciples into action.

It helps those

who

have a

religion to live it effectively. Shri G. .V. Mavalankar, first Speaker of the Lok Sabha, said,
‘Moral Re-Armament is the old, ancient way of

I sn't it the system that needs to change ?

the East. It has given our philosphy a new orientation and -it has given it wings.’

Yes, unjust and ineffective systems must be
changed. But experience shows that unless a
change of system is accompanied 'by a change in

How do you reach people ?

men's motives, the new system will quickly inherit the defects of the old. Hans Bockler, founder
of the German Trade Union Movement after the
War, said, "When men change the structure of

By every means—word of mouth, mass meet—
ings, films, radio, television, magazines, theatre, but
above all by personal example. Books and films

society changes. When the structure of society
changes men change. Both go together and both
are necessary."

How do you change people ?

of MBA are available and can be obtained by
writing to 3/5 Jhansi Ki Rani Road, New Delhi110055. Phone : 526353 or 522253.

Do you have branches in India 7
There is a branch wherever a man or woman

By giving them hope that they can be different, and that by being different they can help
society to be different. 'As I am so is my nation.

decides to take up this idea. Homes in different
parts of India are our centres in Delhi, Bombay,

If the way I lived was multiplied 650 million times,
That
would lndia be a better country or worse ?'
y.
is a question every Indian can ask himself honestl
have
Merely telling other people to change Will
you
ei..her no effect, or an opposite reaction. But if
tell people what a rascal you have been and 'now

How can I join MBA 7.

you have changed many will be interested.

What is MBA doing to answer poverty 7
To get rid of poverty in India we need economic
plans, but also determined and incorruptible men

Pune, etc. There is a world conference
Asia Plateau, Panchgani.

centre at

You can take part in it by putting these ideas

into practice. There is no membership card to
sign, only a simple decision to be made. You
could start by straightening your life. Take time
every morning to listen to God and get direction on

how to change other people and

the

situation

around you. Enlist a team to work with you i

