6
H . K.

After marriage I left college. For two years I did nothing, then
a small job in N. B. C. C. on daily wages. I wrote two other
comedies in realistic form produced by Theatre Mirror Soceity,
founded by me.

D.R . A. :

What about your training in theatre ?
I went to N.S.D. in 1968, but I had to leave after six months.

Then I established the present Kalakshetra Manipur in l969.
I wrote two plays under the inﬂuence of absurd and classical

theatre.

But they were not successful

because absurdity in

Man ipur was not acceptable.
D.R .A . :

How did you respond to the audience’s reaction ?
I realised that I have to reject all those absurd, classical and
other categorized attitudes. I have to develope my own attitude.

It is about the form of expression.

It has to be sentimental

Deeply psychological plays are not suitable for Manipuri audiences. It was a journey of looking to my self and ourself.

D . R . A . .' When did you write the
H. K .
It was written in 1973.
goondaism in Manipur.
theatrical form for it. I

present play..... ( NAR PISHACH ') ?
I felt so worried by the problem of

Started to think how to discover a
did not. want to intellectuallized but

wanted to have a haunting effect on the audience. Let them
analyze the problem Script was written during the rehearsal.
It was outline, not a literary play, just a theatre script.
D. R. A. : Which other Indian Directors have influenced your work है
Badal Sarkar came to Imphal in l972. A festival of his plays
H. K. दृ

and some Manipuri plays was held. This play was selected
for the festival. He saw it and appreciated it very much.
In 1973, I was sent by the Akademi to observe the Bengal,
theatre in Culcutta for a month. I also learnt basic phycho

physical exercises from Badal Sarkar. He again came to
Manipur to conduct a workshop. I happened to be his assistant.
After the workshop I wrote a new play "Kabui Keioiba” and
produced it with my group. It was a folk-tale.

to project the exploitation through allegory.

to his form.

I attempted

It Qwas closer

.

