7

In i974 1 did a production ofa poem called "Itnphal-73”.
It projected the conflict of Manipuri people v.s new business.
It was done as a poem.

In 1975 Pebet. I had got a project on the study of Tribal

o O

W क्व'
>
० 0

स्म .U

roots of Metei Tribes. I went to remote villages, observed
their daily life. musical patterns, movements and what not.
Pebet was a huge production done on Jatra festival stage. Using
huge Tribal drums, ropes for circus like acrobatic but it was
not mobile. Why not make it ﬂexible. Recreted Pebet with
actors only.

What was happening in your psrsonal life १
I was working as a sort of Manager in pablicity Department.

I was very harrassed during emergency days because of the

W स्म
॰ है"

स्म .U

script of Pebet.

: Now came to the system of working with your Group.
I was intuitive inspirational. I felt the need for the analysis,

knowing beter and deeper. I carried out my studies of traditional Martial Art and discovered their relevance for modern
Theatre. I also tried to workout a methodOIOgy for the Training of an actor under a Ford-Foundation project. In 1985,
“Memories of Africa”. Show in Delhi in 1989 987-90 again
there was a Ford-Founation project. Interaction between urban
actor and Traditional art needs to evolve a new process

for natural eXpression of physical activity, spirit of past in
present Not a rigid form in my working method.
We also visited Japan in 1987 with Pebet.
D. R . A : What is the project you are engaged at present besides
workshop with N. S. D. ‘?
H. K. :

this

I am part of a project called “Seven Princessses" to be organised
by Commonwealth Laberatory Theatre in June l99 l at London
Seven directors will be presenting one story each in their

regional Tneatrestyle.
D. R. A. ' :
H . K.

Stories are drawn from Iran.

What is your experience of the present workshop पृ;
I am in the middie of the workshop. It is too e 1rly to conclude

my experience.
my own system.

Still this workshop is like a testing ground of
There is very limited time.

Also depends

, on the siacerety and seriousness of the students.
more valid when th .2 students give their opinions.

It will be

