11

As a course

of our study in the final yrear we are now in a

north east corner of India to learn the different traditional perfor
ming art forms of' Manipur under the guidaince of Mr. H. Kanhai
lal,
a renowned theatre director b 3th nationally and internationaliy
and also
the winner of Sangeet Natak Akadami Award 1985-86.
Now a days in modern theatre movement "Folk theatre” is a burning

topic of discussion. Apart from that my personal fascination for Mr. Kan.hailal’s approach towards theatre is that uniike the other directo
rs he has
been trying to take only the essence of the folk elements and utilise it
in his plays. His way of communication of emotions through actors
body
and from dance ( Manipuri l, expresions through body and gesture
and

also from Manipuri music he has systerratised the using of different resonancess

in our body.
This kind of learning process was initially a bit difﬁcult for
me but
gradually as I started learning faster and faster with enjoy
ment and
trying to apply it in my role in the play.
To produce this play, we have learned Thang-Ta, voice excerc
ises
and speech, movments with Manipuri teachers for which I
am grateful
to my respected teachers, Mr. Kanhailal. R. K. Totnbisana, Mr.
Tcmba,

Mr. Gope, Mr. L. Kishworjit t Ex—N.S D. ) and Mr. Surya Mohanty
( ExN. S. D. ).
I specially thanks a lot to Mrs. Savitri, an actress of
Kalakshetra
who has guided me like a mother, looking after me like her
child and teaching rne process. And also I thanks to Mr L. Somorendro,
Mr. Sanakhya
Ebotombi ( Ex-N. S. D. ) and Mr A. Lokendro, for their preci
ous lectures.
Manda k in i G oswa m i .

Some time it is very diﬂicult to express our exprience by word,
Now
I am in this position.
My experiences will be incomplete if I don’t write about the peopl
e
of Manipur. Though it is a village. So some problems are there but it
is a not a major thing with me, because the hospitality and cooperatio
n
of the peorile never gives us any chance to complain about any thing.
We have seen a theatre festival here, about the traditional forms and
culture at Manipur like Manipuri martial art, yatra, Natasankirtana. Raas.
The forms gives a knowledge about the rich Manipuri culture and tradit
ion.

