12

In workshop the teachers are very skilled and sincere. The teachers
like Tombisana, Tornba, GOpe, Kishorbhai, Mohantibhai; they tought
us with an easy method and with love and care.

H. Kanhailaljee the director of our play Narpishach and of the workshop is a very great man. He is very genuine person both in his life and
work 1 like his idea at transformation very much. The kind of idea about
traditit nal theatre I got from him is very relevent to me because we are
going to forgot our tradition underpressure of foriegn style at art.

The

way in which he wants to relate our tradition, culture and rituals with
drama, seems to me has direct social importance. It also has protest in
a subtle way.

“Savitri Bhabi” is a very great actress and she is very motherly to
us, she is so frank and genuine, I realy respect her and her tallent.
she has helped me to prepare my role I can’t forget.
It is very difﬁcult to absorb other reople culture totally. But the
director Kanhtilaljee, Savitri bh'bi Mohanti Bhai, every body every time
giving me inspiration to be Successful [ am very greatfull to them and

I hope that we will be aqle to make a good production of नरपिशाच [ तमन्ताई ]
wrritten by Kanhailal.

Seema Adhikary

I must say that it is a new experience for me. The theatrical
enviornment of this workshop WJS completely different from others.
The method of teaching of physical languege which is very much scientifically related with acting was completely new for me.
Sagarika Chutia

TheManipur workshop offered me threefold advantage which were
unique in themselnes. First was the Mini Festival organised for us which
unfoldcd the diverse and vast aspect of Manipuri culture and aesthetics.

On one side Thanga Ta (Martial art) and on the other Lai Haraoba. They
have preserved the aggressiveness of Thang—Ta i.e., and on the other slow
religious Ras.

I saw the example of these elements in the productions

of Modern plays done by Amateur groups in the same festival.
Witnessing the renowned productions of "Pebet” and "Memoirs
of Africa was the secend high light (Dir. P. Kanhailal). Those were the
most enchanting and stunning moments I have felt in my short theatre
career, which personally disturbed my all notions about theatricality,

