1 4th Dec '8 5
Sushila Duraiswami, a student of Bharata
Natyak in Kalakshatra style, started learning

the art form at an early age of eight.
started

She

her training under the able guidance

of Srnt. Lalitha Shastri (a student of Srnt.
Rukmani Arundale) and continued for a span
of ten years under her tutelage she gave her first
public
performance,
otherwise
"Arangetaram" in 1978.

known

as

Since her Arangetaram Sushila has been
performing regularly in various solo 8 group
dances.

For the last five years, Sushila has been
training under Srnt. Pushkala Gopal, a very
well known disciple of the famous performing
couple, the Dhananjayans.

h i l a D u ra i swa m i
ihila has performed at a couple of conferences.

In addition, she has been perfor-

Apart from several solo performances,
rery year at Pragati Maidan since 1980.
। taken part in various dance dramas 8 group dances. She had one of the lead

.ड्ड dance-drama called. “Nowka Charitam" presented by Srnt. Pushkala Gopal's
है in Shrirarn Centre in 1983. This dance-drama was completely choreographed in
Bharata Natyarn style.
represented Delhi College of Engineering in various All India Youth Festivals
के by various Colleges like |.l.T. Kanpur, Lady Shri Ram College, Maulana Azad

Jo‘llege etc.

She competed in the field of classical dance and has many prizes to

. ,३ i

6 took the initiative in organising dance-dramas in her college for the first time,

presented at the Annual Festival of the College for three consecutive years.
1983, Sushila was sent to perform in Muscat as a member of a cultural troupe
s. Swapna Sundari, a renowned Kuchipudi dancer. She has also taken part
ti Er Arnrapali, dance-dramas choreographed and directed by Ms. Swapna

out her performance in Arnrapali, the critic of The Statesman remarked :
la Duraiswarni revealed perfect control over the idiom.
दृ;३ shila left the dais proved her Mastery over Abhinaya”.
ition Sushila participated in the Swami Haridas Festival
member of Ms. Sundari's troupe.

The nonchalant Manner
held in Brindavan last

ila is an Electronics Engineer by profession and is presently working in the sysware group of CMC Limited.

