When I first read Kusum Ansal's Fl EKHA KRlTl last summer, I found that as I read
through the pages I was Visualizing it as a theatre piece from the very start. The story
intrigued me because it worked on many levels-at one level it deals with the growth of

the cultural character Malvika from a young and shy. introvert trapped by her past, to
the Malvika of the penultimate pages of t'hencvel,’ more decisive and clearheaded.

On

another plane the story deals with variation on the theme of Kunti-the eminent essential woman, who walks the razor's edge of balancing her needs for sex 8 sensual

relationships outside of marriage with her ease of responsbility and guilt for her
illegitimate son. Johar Bai, Abha, Janaki,Nair‘.a are all refracted images of this archety-

pal woman-each one of them coming to their own unique way of resolving this
be
dilemma. At yet another level REKHA KRlTl questions the meaning of life - is it to
does .7 or
lived only for the moment ? or is it to be lived by distancing oneself as Tau
service ? These
through the transcendence of self through art, dance, spirituallity or
web of
questions hang suspended - finding their expression through the complex
through the
relationships in the story, some through shadows from the past, others

echoes of ourselves we often find in the patterns of other’peoples lives.

The script that you will see this evening is a dramatization of this complex
contemporary novel.

Obviously Arun Sehgal and myself have had to be selective in

the play uses
choosing incidents from the vast canvas of the novel, The structure of
ally we
Malvika herself as a Sutradhar linking together the differing scenes. Occasion
have also used juxtaposition, counter pointing different sequences together in order to
weave together the various strands of the theme.

The first draft of the script evolved over several months of work by Arun and me.
This draft underwent SUbstartial changes-particulary in language and structure during
test of
the rehearsal period with the cast, based entirely on their suggestion. The final
its effectiveness Obviously lies in its performance before you this evening.

— F E l S A L A L KAZI

