Director's Note

५a

u `क्वे
३३ '
६ .';'

Within a year of our inception, Ruchika had produced
the two better known Rakesh plays—“Aashad Ka Ek
Din" and “Aadhe Adhure". Till today these plays still
remain among the ten best modern Indian plays. Why?
Because in them one finds the structure of a classic——
clearly defined characters, superb language, a powerful
sense of drama and a universal conflict —all elements

that afford the director and, cast the possibility of an
interesting and viable interpretation. What about
“Lehron” then, the middle play, cornparativelyunknown?
Soon after our production of the two other plays, we
read “Lehron Ke Rajhans" and found that it too had an
extremely powerful script though its main problem lay
in its turgid imagery and tremendous complexity. It
was at that very time five years ago that Mona, Alok
and myself decided we would do it sometime—but
everytime we picked up the script conflicts plagued our
mind. It has taken five years of letting ’Lehron’ dwell
in the subconcious before it took shape before you this
evening.
What is ’Lehron' about .7 Obstensibly about the
domestic drama of Nand, the Buddha’s brother and
Sundari, his wife, set against the onrush of history, the

return of the Buddha

to Kapilvastu and his wife

Yashodara entering the order. But is this all the play
is concerned with—or is it really concerned with deeper
issues? Man’s universal quest for a meaning in his
life—a quest that each must discover for himself——a
quest that is limited by the conception of him by
others. Nand's conflict is the existential conflict of any
one of us, and is as valid today on it was in the Kapilvastu of circa 300 8.0
But besides this conflict of Nand, the play is also concerned with the inevitable conflict of Man and Woman
—a question that we have tried to present without bias
in earlier production—Pinter’s The Lover, Strindberg’s
The Father, lbsen's Dolls House. Responses to the
earlier productions have been interesting—male and
female members of the audience have reacted differently to the same interpretation, an interpretation that
seeks to present both sides of the debate without
tilting in favour of one or the other. Sundari is not a
seductive temptress who wishes to take Nand away from
his spiritual quest into the realms of carnal desire. She
is a rational, intelligent woman who cannot accept him
in all his complexity.
Sundari is all women to all men

just as Nand is all men (engaged in the domestic world/
the outer world of the hunt and the spiritual quest)

to all women. Both are intelligent, rational and strongwilled, and here is where the problem starts.
In working on this productions the entire cast has read
through the four full length and two short ’beej nataks'
of Rakesh, as also the two earlier variations on the
’Lehron’ theme—the radio play ’Raat Beetne Tak’ and the

earlier ‘Lehron' with a different third act.

We have

attempted [to see the themes and characters of Rakesh
in continuation and not as isolated entities. Besides
this work on and around the script the cast also worked
for an intensive ten day period on improvisations related
to themes of the play. It was only after all this preparatory work did we begin work on the actual script.
Another important dimension of our preduction of the
play is the research that has gone into recreating the
lifestyle of the period. Although our production does
emphasize the universal conflict that is the theme of
the play, we have all the same felt it necessary to

present them in an authentic historical environment
Though the play should be set in 300 BC, the style of
writing, use of language and imagery are so reminiscent of Kalidas and the host of other Sanskrit play
wrights, that we felt it would be more apt to present it
in the graceful inward looking quality of the Ajanta
Murals rather than in the heavier style of the Sanchi
and Bharhut sculpture. We hope that our attempt to
recreate the lifestyle will be as appealing to the intellect as to the senses.

F E l SA L ALKAZ l

