T H E P LAYW R I G H T
NICCOLO' MACHIAVELLI (1469-1527) was
first and foremost a politician and political theorist.
He held fairly hiin office under the Florentine
Republic from 1498 to 1512. but was disgraced and
sent into semi-exile after the return of the Medici in
the later year. His international fame is based
primarily on his main political writings 'The Prince'
(completed 1513, published 1532) and the
'Discourse'

(1525)

and

the

author of what

is

generally considered to be the best comedy in the
,

rत

त्र

_

Italian language - T HE MANDRAGOLA

Niccolo Machiavelli
Statesman and Political Philosopher

THE TRANSLATOR
V.K. is a graduate from National School of Drama of the 1976-79 batch. Thirty
years experience of working in theatre as an actor, director, writer and organizer.
Founder Director of Khilona, India's first Company of Adults Performing for
Children. Has also translated over 30 world classic plays such as Brecht's Galileo
Galilei and The Caucasian Chalk Circle, Henrik Ibsen's Hedda Gabler,
Hauptmann's The Weavers, Edward Bond's The Fool, Goldoni's A Servant of
Two Masters and The Fan, Ludovico Ariosto's Lena, Ion Drutse's The Elder

Son, Moliere's The Mock Doctor to name a few. All these plays were produced
either by National School of Drama or it's Repertory Company, Bhartendu Natya
Kendra (Lucknow), Deptt. of Indian Theatre (Chandigarh) Bharat Bhawan
(Bhopal) etc.

Written/dramatised many plays for children such as The Clown 's Cry for the
Moon, Nashukra Insaan, Apna Apna Bhagya etc.

THE MUSIC DIRECTOR
BABLI SRIVASTAVA started his career in theatre in National School of Drama.

children workshop in the year 1983 and since then he has been progressing as a
music director in this field.
He has worked with eminent theatre personalities like Ranjit Kapoor, B.V.
Karanth, B.M. Shah, Robin Das, Roysten Able, Mushtaq Kak, N.K. Shanna.

Avtar Sahani, Lushin Dubey, Arvind Gaur, Piyush Mishra, Akhilesh Khanna,
V.K., Suhanand Kirkirc, Siddharth Basu etc....

He has given music for several plays, some of them are - King Lear. What What .
Police-Police, Corruption Kumari, Aao Sathi Sapna Dekhe, Shakuntala ki
Anguthi, Kauva Chala llans ki Chal, Samundra Manthan, Untitled, Blood
Wedding, Kamloops ki Machliyaan, Thieves Carnival, A Corpse with feet.

