ABOUT SHRI RAM CENTRE
Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally
known as the Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the
Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural organization, its objective is to
nurture and develop talent in the performing arts and its programmes are
organised towards this end.

THEATRE REPERTORY :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading
companies of the country. The repertoire of outstanding plays performed
_by the repertory including Sakhararn Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya
Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda» have contributed
signiﬁcantly to Hindustani drama in the country. Besides performing
regularly in Delhi, the Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other
parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and
modern plays in various styles and forms under the direction of such
eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Rajendranath,

B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has performed 66
Hindi plays since its inception.

ACTING COURSE
To encourage young amateurs, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programme. The 1 st year is devoted
to in—depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic
theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on Indian-Classical,
Experimental, Western and Modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a
professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future. Students
who complete the course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory or join the National School of Drama or the Media.
CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP :
The SRC Children's Theatre Workshop is a one—month production oriented
workshop conducted during summer vacation every year under the
guidance of a renowned Camp director. This feature is aimed to impart
theatrical values to children and to improve their communication skills.
SRC KAVI SAMMELAN :
Every year the Shri Ram Centre organizes a Kavi Sammelan. Eminent
poets like Neera‘j. Bal Kavi Bairagi, Ashok Chakradliar and others grace
the occasion with their poetry. The Kavi Sammelan is held in the honour
of Late Lala Shri Ram.
' y‘l
-- I
\

‘2’;
'४३
){J/
.

