‘
a. . . . may

DELHI NATYA SANGH
Delhi Natya Sengh, afﬁliated to Bhartiya Natya Sangh
—the national federa
t i o n of theatre centres, is the federation of import
ant theatre groups of the Capital
It is the only f'ederal organization that functions tor the
pormotion and integration
of theatre groups in the Capital.
The aim of the Delhi N‘atya sangh is to provide a comm
on platform for the
theatremen of Delhi to coordinate their activities: to identif
y and project their
needs; to stress improvement in the quality and the momentum
of theatrical efforts

and to the protection of performer’s rights.
While in the past it had run a regular theatre trasning school, it still pursues
the ozlject by holeing workshops on various aspects of theatre. It has also succes-

f’ully f'orght for the removal of ofﬁcial restriction on theatre practice in the shape of
tax on theatre and police licence system.
It come to the rescue of theatremen who were threatened with oﬂical action.

Its nominees od tne Executive Board of Sahitya Kala Paaishad worked liberal policies and broad based creative programmes for the promotioo of theatre movement .
in Delhi. Last year it helped Puhjabi Academy to formulate a bold ahd creatve
scheme for irnprovihg the quality of Puhjabi theatre, which mahyf'ested itself in the
1994 Puniabi Festival of' Plays. It has to iti credit the ﬁrst festival of plays under
the १ uspices of Municipal Corporation of Delhi.
Delhi Natya Sgigh. as part of its programme to document the growth of
theatre in Delhi and to identify the pieneers and pillars of Eelhi theatae, started the
practice of honouring on the World Theatre Day, the Stalwarts 0g Delhi Theatre_

This has helped recognige the servies of those, whose contribution has been ignor.
ed by the State and Central Akademies.

’

Delhi Natya Sangh works for all.
of Delhi theatre in totality.

Its aim and approach is to voice the cause

Though it does not aim atdirect creative particiption

in theatae practice, yet it has been organising Annual Theatre Festivals and recently

underttook production of plays by employing the services of trained & Renown
ed
Directors.
_
॰
Delhi Natya Sangh appeals to the new generation of theatre practioners &
to हूयां" itq Fold and carry the theatre movement Forward, by working for their

aspirations and goals through Dalhi ष्णपृश्मापृ दृशावुपि which is only
one of its kind in
the Capital.

.

॰

Theatre lovers also invited to become its members and assocrates.

