WORLD THEATRE DAY

M

Theatre in India should ﬂourish in its own identity having its roots deep in its
own soil. ' One should aspire to know the varied theatre cultures of the world in
all its entirety ; but at the same time strive to communicate to the world all that is
salient and relevant in one’s own culture.

It is desirable to cross the frontiers of

our culture and imbibe other traditions so as to enrich ourSelves with new

experiease and excitement.
our identity.

But such crossing should not be at the cost of loosing

Crisis of identity postulates the denial of tradition. Tradition unveils its
effulgance in your irrespective of whether you diept it or not. It comes to you
rather than you go to it in retreat.

If you so desire you can swim against the

natural current, break tradition fully knowing its impact on you and create again
on its ramnets.

The essential thing is to take cognizance of its reality in you and reciprocate to

it, keeping your reservations.

If you escape this there is something artificial about

it, and you yourself will be the looser.

Today there is an awareness among many in India that a theatre languagea
which maintains its indigenous qualities and organic relation to the soil and life
of the country should evolve.

For a long time we have been immitating the West
and in all walks of life. In theatre we
theatre
of
in both theory and practise
reclised that our identity should prevail only when our Western friends started
oming to country in search of our theatrical heritage, indentifying our legacy with
ritualistic dedication and pilgrim like devotion.

The younger generation of our theatre workers now realise that both in
content and form there should be a healthy fusion which would enable them to
impibe the strength of our tradition and interpret it effectively to contemporary
sensibility.

The World theatre day becomes relevant to us in this context.

What we have

to contribute to the world theatre depends on our own achievements and aspirations
integral to our philosophy and ethics which the world theatre can fruitfully inter-

act and inherit.

Slyiﬁﬂrfanikkar .
Director Sopanam, Trivendrum

