S
WORLD THEATRE DAY INTERNATIONAL MESSAGE BY ANDRE-LOUI
SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE INTERNATIONAL THEATRE INSTITUTE
AFFILIATED 'I‘O UNESCO, PARIS
On 27th March 1985, International Theatra Institute will celebrate the 24th
World Theatre Day. It was in fact in 1962, on the 27ih March, which happened
to be the. opening of a seasen of the Theatra of Nations, that this day of
commemoration was first declared.

Indeed World Theate Day is a priviledged and exceptional moment we have
ﬁxed in time to enable each of us in this unique profession, to come together

across boarders, ideologies, generations and disciplines.

This doy enab1es us to

r, through our daily joys.
focus on all that unites us, that links us to one anothe

and cares. But above all, it provides ५ an opportunity to look on other, the on
another culture, at the other end of the planet. If kindred in poetry, theatre artistes
the destiny Of
of ten anticipate the reality of tommorrow and have a foreboding of
humanity they also represent its memory.

The Second World War ended 40 years ago.

The world of theatre remembers

Theatre, so often harassed, persecuted throughout the ages, has become the symbol

of resistence to all types of oppression ; theatre which identiﬁes itself to life, for
creation is life, is witness to this renascent life.

All must be linked by solidarity. But theatre people did not have to invent
this solidarity for they had always practised it in their art. The creation of the
International Theatre Institute, which followed shortly after that of the big Organization and was inspired by one of them, Unesco, appeared to be an assertion of an
identity, of a will to build together a future equal to the hopes of artists,

Our

profound cultural similarities, our same vision of mankind, woven over the course
of centuries, has awakened in us this feeling of belonging to one and the same

world. Each man of theatre, each women, participates in this universality. Concerned by the fate of our Community, we are no less so for that of the world.
All the efforts of creation and of invention undertaken by intellectual communities the world over, to increase opportunities for exchange and contacts, are
indissociable from our own action.

Our theatres are places of encounter and of

exchange, an opening onto the contributions of all of us to the heritage of
knowlenge and of ars.

