The Lord of the Meeting Rivers,
Kudalasangamadeva, becomes his
chosen god; every vacana by
Basavanna has his chosen god’s
name in it, usually as the closing
signature-line .
In Kudalasangarna, he found a guru,
with whom he studied the Vedas and
other religious texts. Though he
began his worship with an external
symbol (sthavaralinga), he soon

found his istalinga. his own personal,
chosen, linga. Legend says that the
Lord appeared to him in a dream and
said, “Son, Basavanna, we want to

raise you in the world; go to
Mangalavada where King Bijjala
reigns". Basavanna woke up and
found it unbearable to follow the
Lord‘s decree, leaving the temple and
the Lord of the Meeting Rivers be
hind. The Lord appeared to him
again in a dream in the midst of his
distress, and said to him that he
would appear next day to him
through the mouth of the Sacred Bull.
Next day while Basavanna waited
worshipfully, leaning his body on the
Stone Bull in the temple, the Lord

formed a linga in the heart—lotus of
the Bull, and enthroned on the
tongue, came into Basavanna‘s' hand,

and initiated him. From then on,
Basavanna was freed from places. He
was his Lord’s man and prepared
himself to create a society of Siva’s
Men.
Basavanna then went to Kalyana
where his uncle Baladeva was
Bijjala‘s minister, and married his
uncle’s daughter, Gangarnbike. Soon

he was a trusted friend of King
Bijjala, and rose in the court. When

his uncle Baladeva died, Basavanna
succeeded him as Bijjala‘s minister,
and assumed many powers of state.

thorn of the streets. The Virasaiva
community, instead of being cowed
by it, was roused to revenge and

violence against state and society.
Meanwhile, Basavanna’s devotion
Basavanna, committed to non—

matured from strength to strength.
“Not only was he the king’s treasurer
(bhandari) but he became the Trea—
surer of the Lord’s Love (bhakti—
bhandari) . ”

violence, tried hard to convert the
extremists but failed. In his failure, he
left Kalyana and returned to
Kappdisangarna, where he died soon

Devotees from far and near walked a
beaten path to Kalyana to see
Basavanna and enjoy his hospitality.
Many were converted to Siva-worship
by the fire of Basavanna's zeal and
stayed in Kalyana, thus swelling the
numbers of Virasaivas a new community with egalitarian ideals disregard—
ing caste, class and sex grew in
Kalyana, challenging orthodoxy,
rejecting social convention and
religious ritual. A political crisis was
at hand.

were out for revenge; they stabbed
Bijjala and assassinated him. In the
riots and persecution that followed,
Virasaivas were scattered in all
directions.

Naturally, there was fierce opposition
to this rising utopian ginger-group. Its
enemies gathered around Bijjala and
battered at his faith in his minister
with gossip and accusation. Bijjala
was swayed by this barrage of
accusations and waited for a suitable

opportunity to curb the rise of
Virasaivism in his country.
In the new egalitarian Virasaiva
community a wedding took place
between two devotees; the
bridegroom was a former outcaste
and the bride an ex—brahmin. The
traditionalists thought of this
unorthodox marriage as the first blow
against a society built on the castesystem. So Bijjala sentenced the
fathers of the bride and the
bridegroom to death; they were
dragged to death in the dust and

after. Meanwhile, extremist youths

But in the brief period, probably the

span of one generation, Basavanna
had helped create a new community.
Basavanna's achievement, in addition
to the great vacanas he composed,
was the establishment of a
Virasaivism, with eight distinctive
features, based on a rejection of
inequality of every kind, of ritualism
and taboo. and exalting work
(kayaka) in the world in the name of
the Lord.
(from speaking of Shiva)

