PLAYWRIGHT’S NOTE
A.D. 1168.

North Karnataka was ruled from the
city of Kalyan by Bijjala of the
Kalachurya dynasty. He had begun life

‘linga’ as ‘chosen') was worn round
one’s neck, to emphasize that one‘s
body is the temple, the linga and the
anga (body) are one.

as a feudatory of the Chalukyas and
gone on to wrest the throne for

himself. He loved to erect stone
inscriptions and his kingdom was
littered with testimonials to his own
prowess and glory.
But today Bijjala is remembered
chiefly because he had in his court a
man called Basava.

And unlike many other mystics and
saints, they did not merely preach.
They acted. One day, a sharana girl of
Brahrnin parentage married a sharana
boy who was a cobbler by birth. And
Kalyan exploded into violence. The
sharanas were chased into the jungles
and slaughtered. For survival, the
movement went underground and reemerged in Karnataka only after

Apart from being the Minister in
charge of the King‘s treasury,
Basavanna (or ‘Brother Basava‘ as he
is more popularly known) was a poet,

several decades.

saint, mystic, social activist and

in order to recapture the breathless
excitement, the sense of intellectual
and spiritual ferment which galvanized that era as well as to make
sense of what could have gone
wrong, how a movement which
involved so many of such undoubted
intellectual stature could be snuffed
out so easily.

religious reformer. He brought
together in Kalyan, independently of
the court, a large number of like—
minded people, creating a society

which for sheer intellectual brilliance
has not been matched again.

Kannada writers have gone back

again and again to the events of 1168

They called themselves sharanas, or
those who have surrendered to the
The issues raised still confront us. The
Lord. They wrote in Kannada. For the
conﬂagration rages on.
first time, religious and spiritual
matters were discussed in the mother
Nearly thirty-three years ago, as a
tongue of the common people rather
student in Bombay, I saw Shri
than in Sanskrit, the learnt language of Ebrahirn Alkazi‘s production of Miss
the elite. They wrote spare, short
_ Julie. The experience violently
poems, devoid of classical artifice,
wrenched me out of the traditional
aimed directly at the man in the street.
theatre of my childhood and
For them there was no discontinuity
confronted me with modern theatre.
between the realm of the spirit and
I need scarecely say how happy I am
the gross world outside. 50 a committhat Shri Alkazi is returning to the
ment to inner purity meant a commit-.
ment to purify the world as well. They theatre after an absence of nearly
fifteen years to present Rakt-Kalyan to
therefore accepted history as a reality
the
world.
changed.
and
confronted
to be lived,
The basic principle of one‘s day—to—Girish Karnad
day existence was to perform one‘s
as
kayaka, one’s profession, seen not

a mark of caste or a source of profit,
but as a calling. They spurned caste
and condemned sexism. They criti—
cized idolatory and followed the path
of nirguna bhakti which saw God as
Formless. The ishta-linga (literally

