THE DIRECTOR
methods and standards of discipline.
During the same period he guided the
Natya Academy. Bombay as its
Principal.
The Theatre Unit Bulletin. a monthly
journal. edited by him. was at that
time, the only publication devoted to
theatre and allied arts.

In 1962 Alkazi accepted the invitation
of the Government of India to head

the National School of Drama in New
Delhi. Here his work took on national
significance. since the School drew
students from all parts of the country.
Mr. Alkazi‘s own productions were
known for their integrated vision. A
man of many talents. he designed his
sets and several of his settings
appeared in "Stage Design
Throughout The World Since 1950."

Ebrahim Alkazi was the Director
of the National School of Drama for

16 years (1962-1977) during which
time he established the Repertory
Company attached to that Institute.
Mr. Alkazi was born in Pune in 1925
and began his career in Theatre in
Bombay. An outstanding graduate of
the Royal Academy of Drarntic Arts,
London. he was awarded the Starred
Certificate for work of exceptional
merit by the British Drama League and
won the BBC Broadcasting Award in
1950. He is an associate of the Drama
Board of Great Britain.
He returned to India and set up
Theatre Unit. in 1954, in Bombay,
producing a varied range of plays.
from the classical to the
contemporary, in English and Hindi.
Founder — Director of the Theatre Unit

School of Dramatic Arts, Bombay,
Alkazi set the high standards and
formulated the wide, cultural base.
and technical skills that later were to
make the National School of Drama, a
pioneer institute in its training _

An important contribution to the
development of the theatre movement
has been the several auditoria
designed and built by Mr. Alkazi. The
emphasis mainly has been on open-air
theatres for which the Indian climate
is well suited. He demonstrated the
dramatic use of historical monuments
by producing epic and historical plays
in several such venues.

In recognition of his services to
theatre. Mr. Alkazi was given the
Akademi Award for Direction in 1962
and was made a Fellow of the Sangeet

Natak Akademi 1967. The Padma Sbrz'
was conferred on him by the
Government of India in 1966 and he
received the Kalidasa Sammcm
conferred by the Government of
Madhya Pradesh in 1986-87. the
Padma Blausban in 1990.

