DIRECTORS' NOTE
The three plays constitute a formidable

on a national scale.

challenge, individually and

collectively. Rakt Kalyan with its
sixteen scenes and vast array of
characters is concerned with issues of
political power, social transformation
- and spiritual struggle. The three
principal characters, King Bijjala,
Basavanna and Jagadeva, are
instinctively and inevitably drawn
towards one another at a much deeper
spiritual level than the worldly
concerns that provoke, unite or divide

them. The stark and bitter irony of the
play reveals to us that the horrifying
events of 800 years ago have taught us
little, and that saints and mahatmas
have been forced into disillusionment
and despair by a reversal of the very
forces that made for the success of
their miraculous achievements. A
personal aspiration, however wellintentioned, frequently leads to disaster

Where exactly is the flaw that leads to
calamities of such dimensions? Is it in
the mistiming of a reformist movement,
or in miscalculations in the
elaborations of its strategy, or in the
inability to anticipate future
repercussions or in the failure to
understand a people's mood or
psyche? Are there any lessons to be
learnt from the past? Or is the sheer
lust for power, even at the expense of
violence and bloodshed on a mass
scale, so deeply ingrained in human
nature, that it refuses to learn from past
mistakes, and is totally oblivious of the

sufferings of the very people it seeks to
emancipate?
The formal simplicity of the setting is to
allow the issues that obsess the play's

protagOnists to emerge clearly. The
two confrontations each, between King

Bijjala and Basavanna on the one hand,
and between Basavanna and Jagadeva
on the other, lead to the situation
where the young revolutionary comes
face to face with the King, and in the
very act of killing his adversary,
ensures his own suicide. That this
should come about through a
misinterpretation of a saintly vision is
what makes the irony even more
devastating. Invariably, movements in
the name of religion are misreadings of
its basic message, and travesties of its
spirit.
Miracles may occur brieﬂy through acts
of unconscious or unwitting faith, (as
when King Bijjala inadvertently
embraces the Shivaling), but they are
inadequate to turn the tide of one's
tragic destiny.
—E. ALKAZI

