TRANSLATOR’S NOTE
I dont know Kannada, yet this
translation. As several Russian,
German, Spanish, Czec and other
plays are translated based on the
English version, I too have followed
the suit. I had full faith in the English
translation because it was done by
the playwright Girish Karnad himself.
During the discussion with the
playwright and while listening to
certain sequences in Kannada it

became quite clear that the
distinction of the characters in terms
of caste creed, and class, has been
revealed also through the dialogues.
Since the melieu depicts a specific
time and cultural, region, the
transformation of name and the
addressing pattern would have
caused inconsistency without
adopting it to an equivalent
background. Retaining the
authenticity of the cultural melieu
through dialogues, I have shown the

finer differences of relative class
customs, and status etc., without

turning to colloqueal but rendering
variations in the usage of words and
rhythm of the sentence construction.
The changing ratio of Sanskrit, Hindi
and Urdu words has been kept
deliperality. The difference of Aap,
Tum and Tu in Hindi does not match
exactly with the addressing order of
the Sharana community. Therefore to
reduce this difference, the misered
use of Aap and Tum has been
rendered, to the speech. The
. classification among commoners,

feudals, and pandits speech has also
mainly been established through the
variation in structure of Hindi.

The sayings of Saint Basavanna
transists from prose to verse. It is part
of Basavanna‘s intrinsic nature to
.break away from ornate conventions.
Hence my avoidence of traditional

metrioc system of Hindi Poetry.
During the rehearsals the colleagues
contributions have also inﬂuenced
the language here and there, for
which the credit lies with them.

Certain addition and editing during
the production process is credited to

the director himself.
Since the Title ‘Tale Danda in
Kannada literally means punishment
by beheading, naturally ‘Sar Qalam‘
would have been most appropriate
translation, However after several

reading and discussion with the

playwright and the director. the title
of the play seemed inconsistent to
the dominent imagery of the play. So

with the consent and advice of the
dramatist and the director the play is
called Ra/et Kalyan.
—R.G.B.

