SYNOPSIS
Scene 1

Scene 3

The dying Sambhashiva Shastri calls
for his son Jagadeva, who, along with
thousands of other sharanas, is

Basavanna who has come to the
palace to hand over the keys of the
Treasury is followed by a group of
supplicants who believe along with
the greater part of the populace, that
Basavanna had actually performed a
miracle at the Treasury. The King

involved in the action of surrounding
the Treasury, to vindicate the honour
of their leader, Basavanna.
jagadeva comes home with his friend
Malliboma, the son of a cobbler, who
feels awkward about entering the
house of his friend because of his
low caste. Bhagirathi, a family friend,
resents the presence of Malliboma,
Amba, the mother of Jagadeva,
however urges Malliboma to enter, to
avoid a scene and to enable her son
to go to his father‘s bedside. Jagadeva
excitedly recounts his role in rousing
the sharanas to action to surround
the Treasury while Basavanna was

away.
Sambhashiva. knowing that death is
imminent, orders to place his body on
the floor. and to make funeral

arrangemments.
He dies. calling for his son Jagadeva.

warns Basavanna against the roused
expectations of the masses. Basavanna
now takes his leave, to go to Maddoor
Via Jagadeva‘s home. At Maddoor the
sharanas have attacked the Jains.

Scene 4
At Jagadeva’s home the shradh
ceremony is being performed.
Jagadeva is resentful of the fact that
while it was his action in surrounding
the Treasury that redeemed the
honour of Basavanna and enabled
him to be regarded as a miracle—

sharanas would follow suit, thus

bringing life and trade to a standstill.
Trapped, he says that if the sharanas
insist on the marriage, they can go
ahead. He will turn his back, go to
war, and leave the sharanas to their
fate.
Basavanna replies that if the sharanas
are not offered protection in Kalyan,
they will move somewhere else. He
and Bijjala have come to a parting of
ways. Another encounter between
Jagadeva and Basavanna highlights
the violent extremism of the former,
which Basavanna finds unacceptable.

worker, he himself had received no

credit for it. Jagadeva feels he has
been deserted. as his father once had
been. A man shorn of power in
nothing more than a limb rag. While
he is drawn to Basavanna, he resents

the latter‘s hold over him.
Scene 2

The Palace. The frustrated and
angry Sovideva vents his spleen
against Basavanna and the
sharanas. Damodara Bhatta, the
Raj Purohit is impressed by the
discipline and intelligence system
of the sharanas. King Bijjala returns
in a towering rage, furious with his
son for the latter‘s politically disastrous move in making false accusa-

over. King Bijjala arrives on the scene
to warn Basavanna of the consequences of the proposed marriage,
and declares that he himself will
forbid the match. Basavanna responds
that in that case he will observe
dharana at the palace until the order
is revoked. Bijjala realises that the

Scene 5
At Basavanna‘s home, the proposal of

tions against the Treasurer,

an inter—caste marriage between a
Sharana Brahmin's daughter and a
Sharana cobbler's son puts his philosophy to the test, and arouses deepseated prejudices which reformist
idealism cannot counter. The younger
sharanas, who want to take a firm

Basavanna. While the queen,
Rambhavati cannot understand the
King‘s infatuation with Basavanna,
Bijjala, having himself sprung from
the barber caste, actually admires the
anti—casteisrn of the poet—saint,
though he finds his ideals impractical
and unrealistic.

what they see as Basavanna‘s prevarication. Basavanna maintains that the
final decision has to be taken by the
couple themselves, and not by the
sharana group on their behalf.
Basavanna advises the couple to leave
the city as soon as the wedding is

stand on this issue, are dismayed by

Scene 6
Damodara Bhatta bursts into the home
of the courtesan Indrani to inform
Sovideva of the impending inter—caste
marriage, and the imminent violence
that will ensue. He regards this
marriage as the first hammer stroke
that will introduce the crack into the
sacred caste system and bring it ~
tumbling down. The iniquity of
inequality, he believes, . is in nature
itself. That is why there is struggle,
competition, violence. And the proper
balance is ensured by the solidity of
the caste system. This system
recognises the differences between
the various castes. Each caste serves
as a sanctuary for the people within it.

Basavanna, he says, cannot tolerate
difference; he wants to impose a
uniformity on the whole country. An

understandable inequality is far
preferable to an equality which
nobody understands. While the
wedding is over, the expected violent

