“1P“

-__. m .. … ..

I" "' दृ.

८८-८-"३१1

2m ध्ददृहूँस्ककुँ 2:-

. q: j न

नटरम

त्मा

३१.

.-_

०3७३५«w.
n

नै

11

.1

. .

n 011171, eatre Research—A PrOJect
9f

aratiya Natya Sangh

Ever since its inception, the Bharatiya Natya Sangh, the foremost
cultural organisation for popularising and propagating theatre activity
in the country, has focussed much attention on the promotion of folk
theatre forms,

It has been one of the main objects of the Sangh to seek

links with our ancient tradition of Natya and the folk theatre and to encourage them.

With this end in view, festivals of regional f‘olk dramas, operas etc.
have been arranged from time to time. In 1961-62, Bharatiya Natya Sangh
conducted ﬁeld surveys of three folk theatre forms viz. Jatra from Bengal,
Maach from Madhya Pradesh and Nautanki from Uttar Pradesh. Later
a festival of selected plays from these respective folk theatre forms was
organised in Delhi. Last year the Sangh decided to go further in this
mission by taking up a workshop study of all the important theatrical
f'olk forms of various regions like Jatra, Nautanki, Ras Lila, Maach, Bhavai,

Tamasha, Yakshagana etc. It was proposed to take one dramatic form
each year so that the study could be comprehensive covering all aspects
of the subject like literary, aesthetic, historical etc.

The main feature of the study was to collect authentic technical data
about the form and re-evaluate it with the help of a genuine folk theatre
party which presents this form. Accordingly, under the proposed workshop study, the ﬁrst phase of the work would be devoted to the collection
of material through ﬁeld surveys in the respective regions wherein exhaustive interviews with performing artistes and authorities would be conducted and the second phase would be to sponsor one of the parties for a
performance in Delhi. The results of the research would then be published
in a monograph.
The research project was taken up with the earnest desire that we
should prevent many of the folk theatre forms from decaying and disintegrating and endeavour to re-vitalise them by giving proper encouragement.

The period 1965-66 was proposed to be devoted to an exhaustive
study of Tamasha of Maharashtra. According to plan an initial survey
was conducted by me in Maharashtra with the help of the senior students
of our Natya Institute of Choreography.
It is during the course of this study that we discovered that we should
have more than one party to perform in Delhi, as the Tamasha has various

.

