T A M ASHA
Folk Drama of Maharashtra
—M. K. Pardhy

Tamasha is a form of folklore which, being 'in tune with the modern
trends, has thrived on the vigour and colour in the hard life of the common
man and has, in turn, been a source of entertainment and inspiration “in

Maharashtra.
Tamasha has survived the radical social changes during the past
hundred years while many other social institutions are already dead or are
dying out, such as Gondhal, Wasudeo and Dashavatar.

testimony to the utility and ﬂexibility of Tamasha.

This fact is ' a

३ ”

It is diﬂ‘icult to say when Tamasha was born and how exactly it then
was. A social institution takes centuries to grow. One thing is certain
that Tamasha was one of those ﬂowers which blossomed in the resurgent
society inspired and founded by Shivaji. Maybe, Tamasha had been
taking shape for centuries before.

Tamasha has changed with the times. In the early Maratha period,
it provided a recreation t0 the Maratha peasant who wielded sword on the
battle front and in the rainy season ploughed his ﬁeld. By the end of the
eighteenth century, Tamasha became a means of sensuous pleasure. With
the advent of the British rule, the social order changed: the nobility was
shorn of its glory; a new bourgeois class of the educated came into prominence and the peasantry was relegated to the position of backward . uneducated mass.

Tamasha did not ﬁnd favour with the sophisticated and

turned to rural peOple. Gradually its amorous verve and humour deterio‘
rated to obscenity and vulgarity. ‘

With this deterioration in the social status of Tamasha, the players
came to be regarded a low community, which pursued the profession from
generation to .generation.

This helped, to preserve the art as an ancestral

heritage. This system further led to the concentration of Tamasha in certain places. Kolhapur, Satara, Poona, Jalgaon and Sholapur have been
the main centres. Recently Bombay is becoming the biggest centre.

Tamasha is a form of theatre with a difference. It is a harmonious
blend of music, dance and drama; not merely a mixture. It has evolved

its own styles in all the three .arts.

Tamasha music is different from any

other music, and so are its dance and drama styles.

