4
It is also different from other traditional forms of folk drama such
as Gondhal, Lalit and Dashavatar. It is more developed and more appealing.
Tamasha dance is closer to the Kathak style. It comprises a rich
foot work and Mudras as in Kathak, although not so developed. The
rhythms are simpler, and the expressions and gestures rustic.
Tamasha music compares with light classical melodies like Gauri,
Pahari and Mand, sung in the lighter vein like Thumri, Kajri and Hori.
By the end of the Peshwa regime Tamasha music had developed to a sophistication of chamber music sung in the accompaniment of Sarangi and Tabla
by the musician seated on a decorated platform before the elite audience.
However, Tamasha music is generally sung by performers standing on the
stage.

Both the dance and music require special types of instruments. The
most important among them is the dholak, high-pitched and sensitive. It
is smaller and more shapely than its counterpart in the North. A onefaced drum (called duff), a pair of cymbals and a Iuntune (one-stringed
instrument played like Ektari) are the other essential instruments. Sometimes there are two drums of different types and sizes. These days harmonium is a must.
Tamasha song, called lavani, is a type by itself in Marathi literature.
In content it belongs to the lyrical variety. In composition it is forceful,
rhythmic and racy like Jayadeva’s Geeta-Govind or Shankaracharya’s
Strotras.
The sentiment of the lavani is generally erotic. Devotion and detachment have also taken a big share in the lavam‘ literature. The lavam'
which elucidates to the layman the metaphysical mysteries of the Vedanta
is called ‘Bhedik Lavam”.

The theme of lavam' is generally the youthful love in its various hues
and stages. The damsel pines in separation when her hero goes to the
battle ﬁeld. At times, a coward lover is ridiculed.

Ram Joshi, Sagan Bhau, Parashurarn, Prabhakar, Honaji Bala and
Anant Fandi were among the most celebrated composers of lavani. In
the last century, Patthe Bapurao blazed a new trail and most of the
Tamasha players today are his followers.
The technique of Tamasha is similar to that of Nautanki in the North.
It does not require any stage setting. An even space about three metres in
length and breadth is enough for the stage. Changes in scenes are indicated verbally. Movements from one place to another are enacted by moving in a circle on the stage. A player takes more than one roles in the
same play, besides singing and playing his instrument.

No special costume is deemed necessary for any character. Different characters are presented only through the bearing and acting.

