5

For dress, women wear a nine-yard sari in the Maharashtrian style,
and men wear churidar paijama and long shirt in the historical style. Men
have turbans for headwear and women have gqira on the hair-do.
In the very concept of Tamasha. the dance is performed by women.
She also acts as heroine of the play. There are often more than one girls in
a troupe. Where dancing girls are not available, boys do the female roles.
The male members of the troupe sing, play on instruments as well
as do the different roles in the play. Generally the dholaki player is the
hero.
Thus only a few persons, even four or five, are enough for a Tamasha
performance.
The dancer, the dholak player and the clown are the most important
persons. The clown is an institution by himself. He is called ‘Songadya’. He plays the role of Pendya, the starnrnering companion of Krishna,
and of the prime minister of the king and even of the horse of the hero.
His skill lies in his spicy tongue, ready wit and rich humour. In certain
respects he is more important as dramatic persona than the clown of
Sanskrit plays: he is equal in status with the hero; more intelligent and well
informed; and often he is a rival of the hero in courting the heroine.
The presentation of a Tamasha performance follows a set pattern.
First the instrument players take their positions in a row in the background.
Then the dholak players come to the fore and there ensues a duel between
them. At the end, the dancing girls emerge from the two corners at. the
back, with their backs turned towards the audience and the upper end of
the sari held between the hands raised apart above the head, like a peacock

spreading its plumage. They come forward dancing to the rhythm of the
dholak and turn their faces to the audience and salute.

Then a dancer begins a lavam', interpreting it by facial expressions,
symbolic gestures and movements, and dance. Songs after songs are
presented on choice calls from the audience. The gap between two songs
is ﬁlled with some humorous dialogues especially by the clown.

A Tamasha performance can be complete with the singing and
dancing of lavam‘ songs. Plays are also enacted in which case the lavam'
singing f'orms only a preliminary part of the programme.
The play begins with Gana and Gaulan. Gana is a song to invoke
the blessings of Ganapati, the god of arts and the savior from all calamities. Gaulan, meaning a milkrnaid, is a type of lyrical poem in which
the sports of Krishna’s childhood are described. The Gaulan in Tamasha
is like a one-act play. The milkrnaids of Vrindavan are on their way to
the market of Mathura to sell milk, curds and butter.

Krishna with his

companions blocks their way till they surrender to him part of their goods.
This hackneyed theme has remained ever fresh and lively thanks to the

wit of Pendya, the clown, and the skill of the danCing girls.

