6
After this prologue begins the play, called ‘Vag’. The themes are
old romances like Mohana-Batau and Gul-bakavali, or Puranic tales.
Scenes from rural life also form the subject matter of Vag.
The play starts with a lavam' narrating the story, and sung and danced
bit by bit till the end. Every musical bit is enacted through prose dialogues.
The drama in Tamasha has thus elements of opera. The text of the
play is not written, except the lavam' songs. Dialogues are improvised
which lends freshness to the performance.
In Tamasha, the audiences are not passive spectators, but active

participants. They are different from the players on the stage only in
that they play their part as spectators sitting in the auditorium rather
than on the stage.
Tamasha troupes move from place to place. They are invariably
there at the fairs. They are also invited on special occasions such as community celebrations and wedding ceremonies.
Apart from the professionals, there are amateur Tamasha players in
every village.
The common man has all along been the patron of Tamasha. The
system of ‘Daulatjada’ has been the traditional manner of honouring the
Tamasha players. In this system an admirer gives away money to . the
dancing girl. But it had corrupted into indecency. The vulgar practices
are now prohibited and the system is being replaced by tickets.

Tamasha has proved its worth as a powerful medium of entertainment and mass education. In the pre-independence era, it was used as
an instrument of social and political awakening. The Satya-shodhak
Samaj used Tamasha to preach its ideas of social reforms. The Communists
and Socialists of Bombay also have their Tamasha troupes.

Since independence, efforts are being made to reform Tamasha.
It is being purged of obscenity and vulgarity. Experiments are being made
to widen its scope both in technique and content. It is being revived from
the depression that overtook it with the advent of cinema.

The ﬁrst Congress Government of Bombay had organised a Tamasha

troupe under the direction and at the instance of the late Mama Warerkar.
The present Maharashtra Government sponsors an annual Tamasha festival. A Maharashtra Tarnasha Parishad has also been set up for the improvement and promotion of Tamasha. A. few years ago, the Sangeet
Natak Akademi bestowed a national award on Bapu Narayangaonkar and
party .

The popularity 0f Tamasha is now growing even in the educated
middle class which had so far shunned it. It has also been inﬂuen
cing
other media such as theatre 'and cinema. About a dozen ﬁlms have
been

