३

l -‘.

_r! . '. ‘ .. Iतु
हैं ' r
SET lN STONES
Sculptures In Rock
Garden, (hand igar h,
1 HDlV‘, L7! -‘iLllHQl'7

Secret gardener
Artist Nek Chand thought big and showed determination to see his vision through,
recalls GIRIDHAR KHASNIS
ek Chand. who passed away
recently in Chandigarh.aged
90. was arguably the most
signiﬁcant‘outsider‘ artistthe
country had ever seen.He attended no art schools: and almost ८८1'tainly did not know what the tertn ‘avant
garde‘ meant. Yet he single-handedly
and passionately pursued an artistic
dream to buildan imaginary ‘Kingdom
of God'.
Today. the iconic 'Rock Garden' in
Chandigarh that bears his name is acknowledged asone of the modern wonders ofthe worid.The second-mostpopular cultural site in India (next only to
the Taj Mahal) receives thousands ofvisitors every day. and generates an annual
revenue of around Rs l.80 crore from
ticket sales.
Nek Chand's creativejourtiey began in
the l950: when he was a modest road inspector with the Public Works Department How he became acloset builder of
a miniature fantasy world in the forest
duringthe night: howas asecret gardener.
he collectedbroken crockery. rocks. potrery.tileand other bitsofdisairded build
ing materials and consumer debris: and
how he meticulome and zealously reintzmated the litter into beautiful sculptur
alobjem usingprimitive tools are allpart
of hisincredible and well-documented life
star .
F
. Nek Chand's extraordinary
creativity that produced amassive throng
of human ﬁgures. animalsand imaginary
forms and creatures from ‘junk' went on
to attract national and '
‘
' attention
' hislifetime.
He received many awards including the
Padma Shriand the French government's
Gmnde Medaille de Vermeil. Figures
from the Rock Garden featured in exhibitions in landon. Berlin and Paris. Australia made a movie about him while
ﬁance publisheda 500mg:- bookon
Rock Garden. Quite remarkably. Nek
Chand remained unaffected by all the
farneandgory. andremained humbletill
e very
His death on June [8. 2015 was grieved
by his admirers across the world. Among

0n Nek(band's steadfastcommitment:

themwas Dr lain Jacltsottwhose PhD the
sis hadinvestigated thework ofNek Chand
and his Visionary environment.The Rock
Garden.
Currently aseniorlecturer at the Liver
pool Sdiool of Architecture. Dr Jackson
was a close associate of Nek Chand. and a
scrupulous eataloguerofsculptures in the
Rock Garden.Coauthor (with Soumyen
Bandyopadhyay) ofthe seminal book 171:
Collection. the Ruin. and the Theatre.
which was the result of extensive study
and raearch of the Rodt Garden. Dr Jackson recalled his joyous association with
Nek Chand in an email interaction with
Sunday Hem/d.

It just seemed inherent in everything he
did. He wasclearly obsessed with his work
and didn't ever seemto line from it. I also
think hewas stubborn andwanted to keep
going because he didn't want to givein to
authority,
There was a rebellious side to the rock
garden. It was an act of deﬁance against
the city ofﬁcials. against Chandigarhand
against the demolition of the villages that
existed on that plot before Chandigarh
was proposed. l also think the spark came
from seeing people enjoying themselves.
The garden was initially a playgroundfor
Nek Chand's dtildren. and I think he enjoyed seeing families having fun.

On hiscoming Incontact with Nek
Chand's work:
1 ﬁrstsaw hiswork on the UK television.
on a late night arts progrartuiie in 1999. 1
then decided to go to Chandigarh to see
this wondrous creation for myself. in June
1999. I spent days exploring the garden.
and particularly enjoyed how NekChand
had woven the existing ten-ain with his
own creations.

on his personal lnteractlons with
Nek Oiand:
As a person. Nek Chand had a glint in h‘Ls
eyes! As soon as you met him you could
see that within the delicate frame there
was agentle. very funny. quiet but not introverted character. When Nek Chand
spoke. you listened.He was practical and
didn't expound garid theories. At first he
was i-athler cold towards me as he didn't
u... ...c
one
However.when he saw that 1 had attalogued every single sculpture in the parden. he immediately realised what l was
tryingto do. Fromthat momenthe helped
me in every way and was generous and
kind We spenta lot oftimetogether walkingaroun
iegarden We went up to the
Shivalik Hills. where he had gatheredthe
ﬁrst rocks for his creation — he seem
at home up there. and we picked up difr
fercnt stones and imagined what they
couldbe. It was very playful. not at all pro
tentious.

CHAN D'S
CREATIVE
JOURNEY
BEGAN IN THE
19508 WHEN
HE WAS A
MODEST ROAD
INSPECTOR
WITH THE
PUBLIC WORKS
DEPARTMENT.

0n the legacy of Nek Chanct
Thelegacy of Nek Chand is surely iii the
creationhe has formed. 1 think the other
legacy is his determination to see his vision through. Persevere. keep working
hard. he inventive and open~minded.
Don't accept that because an object was
once used in a particular way that is its
only usage of form. He had the vision to
‘think big' and by making small changes
over a long period, hewas able to adiieyc
a hit NekChand has given us a wonderful
place. He did it for fun and to give pleasure. He left his pan ofthe world in abetter
place than he found it. We've all got a lot
to lite up to.
On the future of Nek (band‘s Rock
met:
1 think the rockgarden is aboutpeople and
how we interm The garden is about do
'
३
unexpectedammlﬂ's.
It is a place to have fun. and in also think
andwatch. To spend time with our families.
andto also sit back and midi people flirting
under thewaterfall, or laughing atthe monkey sculptures. or playing hldL‘éU’ld‘Ska
around the swings. We are so lucky to
acreation like the rod garden.
I hopeit‘s cut-fully presenedand mairr
rained — without becoming vulgarised
and commercial. It needs to bea garden
first and foremost — and perhaps only a
melt: ground on occasion.

