__

l ata
l nte r national

Gym/MIA; 0/
930 g d”? व्या

…

Amateur Theatre
Assocratron

(National Centre, IATA)

DENMARK

INDIA
ABOUT NIPA

The National Insititute of Pei.’orrning Arts (NIPA) affiliated to the International Amateur Theatre Association (IATA), Denmark is functioning since
1985. NIPA has already organised Four International Theatre festival in 111dia in the past. NIPA has also sponsored groups to participate in World Theatre
Festivals held in various countries. NIPA has also sponsored the United Art—
ist Group of Tazpur (Assam) in the 5th World Festival of Children's Theatre,
1998 in Lingen \Germany) to be held from 11th to 17th April, 1998.

IATA/A ITA
With members in 80 countries on 5 continents, IATA/AITA - International

Amateur Theatre Association - is the powerful voice of the global amateur
theatre community.
There are literally millions of people around the world actively involved in
amateur theatre These people share a commitment ot creative theatrical expression without remuneration, and are members of more than 100,000 amateur theatre groups.

g‘Airiateur theatre actively worldwide is under the auspices of National IATA/

:AITA Centres. Under its banner of universal understanding and education
through theatre, IATA/AITA'promotes cross-frontier cooperation, artistic
enrichment, and a sense of universal togetherness.

--

7 IA‘TA/AITA is a non-governmental organisation having official relations with
UNESCO, and is a member of the Standing Committee of International Theatre

Organisations.

“f2
' 4'

SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY

दृ हुँ V“, .

-~AUSTRALIA - A Piece or Dirt
A piece of dirt is a 15 minute theatre with musical accompaniment..1t relates
to how students in a playground treat those who are different. The theme of
the aboriginal play (dance drama) we will also be performingis about getting alongwith those who are different
”7" '

BANG LA DE SH - Putul
Babies are fond of playing with dolls. Innocent babies have got much parental affection for the dolls they look after. Dolls are naturally presented to
them on occasions of Birthday, New Year day and so on. Babies are pleased
and over-whelrned with joy to have gifts like doll from their nearest and
dearest or wellwishers.
Dolls are nursed, dressed, pet and some time boxed up in self or showcases.

They are preserved with care. When they are thought to be old and found
defective, they are thrown into the dustbin with wastes. They are no more
taken care of.
In our society, some children are uncarcd and ilifated like the dolls in the

