dustbin. Many of them are either fatherless or motherless. They are orphans,
manage themselves standing on their own feet. They live uncared, grow up
unnoticed and die unlaniented. But why? Have we no responsibility to bring
them up.

And what wonders can the music work. The king cancels his order about the
death penalty and the Royal Minister himself confesses that he has stolen the
Diamond. The Queen, the Princess and all the courtiers forget about bore-

dom, they sing and dance. But suddenly the king notices that nobody in his
kingdom wants to sleep. What is going on?

FINLAND - Namaskaram

It turns out that everything has happened because of little musicians and
their music. And then the king issues a Royal decree : "Unknown musicians
for disrupting order in the kingdom must be put in Jail. "Dzin and Bum are
taken to the prison. But Jack opens the locks and lets the chilren out. The
young audience helps Dzin and Burn to hide and then drives the king away.

Namaskaram based on Bharatnatyam dance form. Also Finnis Folk dance.

RUSSIA - Magic Music
The curtain rises and the audience sees the country named "Foolsland". Boredom and despondency rule the kingdom, its rulers like to sleep very much.
Suddenly this sleepy silence is broken by the event which agitates everybody, the Blue Diamond is stolen from the Princes. The Chief Detective and
his dog Jack are ordered to ﬁnd the priceless diamond. But the Detective
gets so little money from the Treasury that instead of getting himself a real
dog he has to employ a poor fellow who works at the laundry during the
evening and serves as a dog during the day time.

UZBEKISTAN - LTwist Of Fate
2. Infant's Name - Day
The theatre mainly works with planchet puppets to a ”live" formal.
"Twist of Fate" or "What’s the date today ?" This is an attempt to reconstruct the tradition of Uzbek Street performances from the 19th till the beginning of the 20th century.

Finally Jack finds traces which lead in the direction of the forest. But instead of criminals they ﬁnd little strolling musicians in the forest - a brother
and a sister, Burn and Dzin. They have lost their way. Bum and Dzin don't
know anything about the Blue Diamond but they know what music is - they
can play and sing in such a beautiful way.

"Infant's Name Days" largely based on Oscar Wilde's classic English tale—"A
Child's presents". The tale is about a hunchback who having lived all his life
in the forests suddenly ﬁnds himself in a palace - as one of the presents of
spoilt child.

The little musicians, escorted by the Detective and Jack come to the Palace.

FIRST INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN'S THEATRE FESTIVAL
(14th to 19th November, 1997) 6.30 PM to 9.00 PM
at LTG Auditorium, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi. India
Date

Country/State

1 4th Nov .

OPENING CEREMONY
'
Finland
Delhi

Play/Ballet

’. Namaskararn
Yeh bhi Jungle
Woh bhi Jungle

Group

Theatre Floppi .
.
National School of Drama (NSD)

1 5th Nov .

Assam
Australia

Deewar Tomi Hai
A piece of Dirt

United Artist
The Wooden School

1 6th Nov .

Keral a
B ihar

Vishnumaya
Champaran
Satyagraha .

' Surya Children Theatre
Navodaya Vidyalaya

Russ i a

Magic Music

Children Musical Theatre

Pune

Raja Ranila
Gharn Hawa
(a) Twist of Fate
(b) Infant's name Day

Kalapini
T‘elegaon Dabhade
Khayol

Delhi
Delhi
Bangladesh

Jhooth Bole Kauya Kate
Bhartiya Sanskriti Ki Mahima
Putul

Indu Art
Deaf Cultural Society
People's Theatre Association

C uttack
De l h i

Chaiti-Ghoda
Ballet

Utkal Yuva Sanskrutik Sangh
Anupam Kala Kendra

1 7th Nov.

Uzbekistan

1 8th Nov .

1 9th Nov .

CLOSING CEREMONY

