THE PLAYW RIGHT

, short story writer and
FREDRICH DURRENMATT (b. 1921). Swiss playwright, novelist
dramatic theorist.
Durrenmatt’s primary ambition was to be a painter, and his early plays are illustrated
with his own sketches. It was not until the mid-1940’s that he began seriously to devote
himself to literature. In 1945 he published his ﬁrst short story and also wrote other small
pieces and fragments, often facing the ﬁnancial perils of being a free-lance writer. His attempt
at being a theatre critic failed as did his sketches for the cabaret shows, except for the fact that
it diSplayed one of Durrenmatt’s strongest interests, namely in being the critic of his time. This

was apparent in his ﬁrst published play Thus it is Written (1946), in which the inﬂuences of
Brecht are somewhat prominent, especially the alienation techniques utilised.

Essentially, Durrenmatt believes that life of an individual is in the last analysis insigniﬁcant and that man is most often corruptible, a line of thought that is the basis of his play The

Marriage of Mr. Mississippi ( 19 50).

While Durrenmatt is pessimistic about the man and society, he is inventive and committed

to a thoroughgoing criticism of our time.

He wrote after the production of Romulus the Great

(1949), “The world, for me, stands as something monstrous, an enigma of calamity that has to
be accepted but to which there must be no surrender." In his play An Angel Goes to Babylon
(1953) he chailenges ‘Gods injustice.’ In The Visit (1955) he brings out the ethics of justice
and in particular a clash between the moral and the materialistic values in todays society dominated by money and power.
Meteor (1966).

His other successful plays include The Physicists (1961) and The

Two primary themes dominate his works—power and death. Death is omnipresent, emphasising the transitory nature of life, the inevitability of the living to come to an end. Durrenmatt intimates throughout his major works that man is ridiculous because of death — life’s
culmination. In keeping with so bitter a View, he utilizes a bitter but vitally comedic sense of
ironic implication Ihis gift places him in the company of the best writers in the genre:
Bertold Brecht, Frank Wadekind and Aristophanes.

The second major theme in his worksis the corrosive corrupting effect of power

There

is present in his works a character who by virtue of his possession of power, acquired by means
not entirely noble, is placedin the precarious balance of how to use that pewcr.

