A Mtandap presentation

t
i
e
t
t
a
M
;
l
l
a
w
Willa

..

। है

.

' वृध्द.

.

‘

twin" . - ' .

१०- i

.m. , - . mm... W...“ ५ ८ . ._.. ........ --.-.....i w. H.“- ३८- .. . "— M... . ... ८ ७८८११- v: ,

’

A scene from J l oothtt Sach .

days
wit
h
such a bigcast. 'l he inten- Marian Karate from (Matty has
by 1 l e m l a t a
sity of ltik'llngs between the Hindu t1} done the-uranium. adaptation of
BHOPAL: 'Mandup’. a young tind M uslim population or lahore, lXanhpai’s well M'ltlcn powerful
theatre_artistes‘ group presented religious frenzy, the friendly novel. Zullikar Ali's music was not
“Jhootha Stich"l a play based on t be relationships between the two up to the expectations for such a
famous novel by well known l lindi communities before ptittitton have powerful play. The dholttk was tho
writer Yashpal
ti; Bharttt been vwidly depicted in the novel“ , loud drowning excellent lyrics ant:
lihawan'ti Antarang Hall on J uly l है Like the huge cast. the story is ghazalsol Faiz and Amrita Pritam .
'
and 33. ३
spread over a Vast panorama - preLighting effect by Sanjay MChlil
A 32-mcmber team of actors and indcpendcnee days, partition. was good, espegially when the two
tictrcsss presented this play in a crossing of the border by the two lovers Tara and Asad are shown
realistic styte. it is the story based communities, both tn lndia and pining for each other at the ii
on the social and political events Pakistan, the life tn the camps in respective places. Asholt Bulani.
during the partition‘ol' the country. and near Delhi, the malpractices in Kavita Surah, the ill {tiled 'l‘tira.
'lhe director of the play, Rajiv distribution of ration and other es. Braicsh were able to give good pr r(john. presented acts ot‘ violence, sential things to the pimple livmg in tqrmance.
‘
arson. loot and molestation of - retielcamps and so on.
. 'l‘he onmkerls left with an overati
'
women and such othehcxecsscs in As a result. the presentation sul- unprcw'tm that it watt uphold {llit restrained manner. He made full fers from luck of compact next, thus ternpt that needs more compact
use अंगोछा/108 curtains. chorus and marrtng the totality of impact on
ness in presentation.
symbolic props for his prescnttt’ the audience.
.…
t ion. Seeing the play on set. it is a At the same time depiction ol'
bold attempt for the young dircc~ Hindu M uslim riots has come) out
tor. it the presentation was a hit well. One person in the horn part
more compact. it would have been of the stage is wavnig his sword
qune ell'ectiyc.
continu. tusl} people are dropping
BIG CAST: Human पृ Resources dead in the pit in large numbers
Development Ministry. . Delhi‘s from both ends ol‘ the ~ age .inJ a
grant to the "Mandap" group mnde- constan' running or angry crowds
Tara
IS
wedde
d
to
blitilth
lal
bu
t
has
it ptissible In stage this play for two to and it ~ .‘arrytng ﬂagstind criesol'
to mp: for tile, on the nupttttl
“Allah Ho Akbar" and "Hair liar
night itself betiause of Sukhtal's inMahadeo” was suggestive of the
human harassment and the riots
violence of the partition days. One
outside when Sukhlal escapes for
felt it lacked the intensity, but the
his life leaving her in the lurch. this
attempt was pr a isewort lry.
is not an क्या for life for her but
LOCALE: 'l he story is pitched tn a
the beginning oi: an unending lillC
small locality of Hindus. Muslims
ol'miscries and misfortunes. tn the
and Sikhs. living amicably; Mamet
Mt
ng8
tinctu
we
scene
last
gatshc
ltatnluhhayais daughter Tara likes
alone in the retiﬂwmtposmg :i
Amid. She is being ti irccd to many

ti good for nothing fellmit'ﬁﬂkhlal.

As a last resort to escape क्या our-A .=
flilgC, when Tara appen's til-A535"
to take a bold step. he expresses his
inability in the name of loyalty to
the party .ind tense situation
through Mimi ttic cooniry iS pow
l .". L‘

question; thgwleuhirriot '3 A l
that moment‘shc' is killed by an
atigryéénwd. 'Ihc‘other groups a rt rivingﬂninghandsmcr the body
l and holding their llagtlln the other.
डे MUSIC NOT UI’ to MARK

