About the Institution

MADHYA PRADESH NA'I'AK LOK-KALA
AKADEMI, UJJAIN, M. P.

Established on 27th May 1976, at Ujjain
Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi
is the only institution of its kind in Madhya
Pradesh which is imparting systematic and
regular training in Dramaturgy through three
courses — One Year Certiﬁcate Course. Two
Years Diploma Course and Three Years
Honours Course in Drarnaturgy. A separate
course on Children Theatre is also being

conducted. The teaching work is presently
being conducted by the trained graduates of
the institution and also by Visiting Professors.

In the past nine years, Eighteen Visiting
Professors have imparted training, some
staying for a week or fortnight but most of
them staying for one or two or three months
at a stretch at Ujjain The Visiting Professors
are : Adya Rangacharya, Nemichand Jain,
Shanta Gandhi, Goverdhan Panchal,

Brij Mohan Shah. V. Ramamurthy,
Kamalakar Sontakke. M. K. Raina, Bansi Kaul
Rajendra Gupta, Sudhir Kulkarni, Balraj
Pandit Jyoti Swaroop. Dheerendra Kumar,
Ravi Sharma Sanjeev Dixit, and Suresh
B h arad waj.
In the past years there was only one

course — One Year Diploma Course in
Dramaturgy. The regular teaching of this
course was inaugurated on 18th November

1976 by Shri Nemz'chand Jain. The First
Visiting Professor was Shri M. K. Raina.
The Founder - Director of the Akademi is
Dr. Prob/mt Kumar Bhrtttacharya.
In the beginning Music. Dance, Painting.
Sculpture and Folk Art were being used as

supporting forms to develop the concept of
Total Theatre. But gradually these SUpporting
forms of performing arts and plastic art grew
into full ﬂedged forms. This necessitated the
bifurcation of different centres within the
frame work of the Madhya Pradesh Natak
Lok-Kala Akademi. Now the
are working independently as
collaboration with each other
Each centre has been given a

follwing centres
well as in
in the Akademi.
name … the name

of an eminent person of the ﬁeld concerned.
The centres are as follows :
Theatre : Nemichand Natya Kendra
The Theatre centre has been named after
Shri Nemichand Jain, the eminent drama
critic. thinker, poet and editor of the renowned
1

journal on Indian Theatre Nataranga being
published from Delhi. Shri Nemz'rhrmd Jain
is also Chief Consultant of the Madhya Pradesh
Natak Lok-Kala Akademi who had drafted
the Syllabus for the One Year Diploma Course
in Dramaturgy being conducted in the

Madhya Pradesh Natak Lek—Kala Akademi.
Dr. Pawan Kumar Mishra. besides being

Reader in the School of Studies in Hindi.
Vikrarn Univers'ty, Ujjain is a theatre critic
and editor of the well-known literary magazine
f

३" ' Wit”.— "3.452;" ' औ,

‘

.3

L23»: 7T7MZSMHL

