Zam in, who has guided the research work of
ten research scholars in Hindi and has four

published books - two books on Hindi literaure,
one on Parsi theatre and one on theatre
practice to his credit. Dr. P. K. Mishra is the

Organiser (संचालक) and Shri Satish Dave is
Head of the department of Drama in the
Nemiclzand Natya Kendra of the Akademi.

2

Dance: Durgaprasad Kathak Kendra
The Dance Centre has been named after

the famous Kathak dancer of this region
Pundit Durgaprasad Kathak who belongs to
the Jaipur Gltarana 0f Kat/:ak.
Shri Rajkumud devotee and performer of
Kathak dance for more than 30 years, who
is a gold-medalist postgraduate from

Khairagarh University and who has given
numerous dance recitals all over India and
abroad (Italy, Germany, France, Great Britain
and other countries), directed number of
ballets, conducted numerous folk dance
workshOps, directed and acted in number of
plays and won many laurels in Dance recitals
is the Founder of the Dance Centre and also
the Deputy Director of the M adhya Pradesh
Natak Lok—Kala Akademi. He is also the
Professor of Dance in Govermnent Girls
College, Ujjain.
3

Folk Art : Ustad Kaluram Lek-Kala Kendra
The Folk Art Centre has been named after

the Great Originator of the Folk-theatre form
of the Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh Maach — Late UstadKaluram.

The direct discendent of the Kaluram
Maach Gharana and himself a versatile Maach
Guru, Music Composer of eminence Pandit

Om Prakash Sitar-ma is the Organiser (सचालक)
and Shri Lakendra Sing/2 Rathore is the Head
of the department of Folk Art in the Ustad
Kaluram Lok-Kala Kendra of the Madhya
Pradesh Natak Lok~Kala Akademi.
The activities of the above centres are as
follows :

NEMICHAND NATYA KENDRA
A Drama Festivals

The Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi through the Nemichand Natya
Kendra has so far organised Eight drama
festivals each of seven days duration. A week
long drama festival named as Slzinde Natya
Samaroh is organised every year in the
memory ot Late Shri Yeshwant Rao Shinde a

devoted theatreman of Ujjain associated
closely with the Madhya Pradesh Natak LokKala Akademi. Children Theatre Festival
has been organised thrice. Two special theatre
festivals have also been organised (l) Bhasa
Natya Samaroh, (2) Maach Mela.

(I)

Bhasa Natya Samara}:
.
A week long Sanskrit Drama Festival in

the memory of the great poet-laureate and
dramatist Mahakavi Bhasa was organised at
Ujjain in 1980 under the direction of
M. K. Raina.

Six Bhasa plays were produced on the

