5. One Parsi Theatre Workshop .' The
Akademi organised One Parsi Theatre
workshop under the direction of B. M. Shall.
6. Two Sanskrit Theatre Workshops :
Two Sanskrit theatre workshOps have been
organised under the direction of
Dr, Prabhot Kumrtr Bhattacharya.
Ustad Kaluram Lok-Kala Kendra

The Mad hya Pradesh Natak Lok Kala
Akademi through the Ustad Kaluram LokKala Kendra has concentrated on three

aspects of Folk Art, (I) The Folk Theatre
aspect through Maach on two leVels — One,
on the level of performance and the other, on

the level of Research. Pt. Om Prakash
Sharma is regularly imparting training in
Maach music, Sh ri Rajkumud, the Deputy
Director of the Akademi is doing research on

Maac'h under the guidance of Pt. Om Prakash
Shanna and Dr. Prabha t Kumar
Bhattacharya. Shri Satish Dave, the Head
of the department of Drama has written his
M. A. dessertation on Maach. (2) The Folk

Dance aspect though Five Folk Dance
Workshops organised for children under the

direction of Rajkumud, (3) The documentation
aSpect through collection of Folk material

so as to build-up a permanent museum.

D urga pr:1 sad Kat hak K end ra
The Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi through the Durgaprasad Kathak
Kendra is conducting regular traning courses
in Kathak :

(l )

One Year Certiﬁcate Course

(2)
(3)

Two Year Diploma Course.
Three Year Honours Course.

Besides these a separate course is being
run for children. Shri Rijumud and his
trained colleagues are conducting these
courses.

Besides these, the Akademi is also running
Four more centres :

(l) Suman Balwadi : An institution for
children education where special

emphasis on performing and plastic
arts is being given through regular
training. The institution is named

after Dr Shiv Mango] Singh Sumam' the
well known Hindi poet. Shri Vishnu
Shrivastava a devoted education ist
of eminence, is the Secretary of the
in \l i t utio n.

(2) Music Centre : The Music Centre of
the Akademi has not yet attained a
full-ﬂedged stature.

(3) Painting and Sculpture Centre :
Althouth suﬁicient work is being done

in this respect. yet this centre has not
attained full-ﬂedged stature.

(4) Film Centre : The Akadem i has
already involved itself in Film making,
but a full-ﬂedged centre has not yet
shaped For independent recognition.
Akademi Rang Samaroh
The Repertory of the Akademi is

