functioning regularly on voluntary and
honarary basis by an ensemble of theatre
graduates of the Akademi. At presentthere
at e 15 members in the Reportory. Wthh

is named as Akaclemi Rang Samoa/z. It
is producing plays regularly.
Annual Convocation

The Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi holds Annual Convocation every year

on the 9th March. So far Eight Annal
Convocations have been held in which 64
graduates have been given Diploma in
Dramaturgy. and 70 graduates have been
given different diploma in Kathak.
N a ty ac ha ry a

Four eminent theatremen have been
so far awarded the title of Natyacharya
(Honoris Causa). They are Nemichand Jain,
Baba Dike, Kamleshdutt Tripathi. Srinivas
Rath. This title is awarded at the time of the
annual convocation.
Shinde Samman

Devoted theatremen who have dedidcate

their entire life For some aSpect of theatre
are honoured with the title of Shinde Sarnman

and a cash award of Rupees Five Thousand
each. Two theatremen have so far been
honoured with the title of Shinde Sarnman

and a cash award of Rupees Five Thousand
each. They are Abdul Gaf'oor Khan and Om
Prakash Sharma. This title is awarded at

the time of Shinde Natya Samaroh.

100 Play Productions
The Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi has been constantly involved in

play productions from its inception.
The Following thirty-three (33) Directors
have presented one hundred (100) plays in
the last nine and a half years. More than 300
shows of these plays have been held : M. K.
Raina, Bansi Kaul, B. M. Shah, Rajendra

Gupta, Sudheer Kulkarni, Prabhat Kumar
Bhattacharya, Srinivas Rat h, Rajkumud,
Pramod Trivedi. Om Prakash Shanna,
Jyoti SwarOOp Dheerendra Kumar. Rajendra
Gautam. Ravi Sharma, Tripurari Sharma,
Suresh Bhardwaj Lokendra Trivedi. Haf'eez
Khan. Anantsingh Parihar. Ashwini Shastri,

Sanjeev Dixit, Abhilash Bhattacharya, Satish
Dave, Rekha Jain, Pramathesh Banerjee,

Jitendra Shastri. Viquar Farooqui, Rajendra.
Awasthi, Lokendra Singh Rathore, Chanchala
Rain. Mukesh Lokhande, Sanjaya Mehta
and Kapil Ramavat.
The play of the following playswrigts have
been staged :

Kalidasa. Bhasa, Shudrak, Bodhayan,
Mahamatya Vatsaraja. Goldoni. Ferens
Karinthi. Govel, Bhartendu Harishchandra,

Badal Sarkar, Vijay Tendulkar. Mohan
Rakesh. Dharmaveer Bharati. Agyeya,

Amrit Rai. Nagarjun, Mani Madhukar, Rekha
Jain. Dushyant Kumar. Radheyshyarn

Kathavachak, Laxmi Narayan Lal, Surendra
Varma, Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena, Nirmal

