Vanna, Shankar Shesh. Harishankar Parsai.

Sharad Joshi, Asgar Vajahad. Vipin Agrrawal,
Lalit Sehgal Rameshwar Prem. Balraj
Pandit. Susheel Kumar Sungh. Narendra
Gangopadhyaya. Mohammad Husain.
Lankesh. Dilip Kolhatkar, Ustad Kaluram.
Rajesh Joshi. Prabhat Kumar Bhattacharya,
Satish Dave. Pramod Trivedi. Tripurari
Shanna, Haf'eez Khan, Suneel Chaturvedi
and Prabodh Joshi.

What the Akademi stands for
The Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi is not just another institution
of performing arts. The Akademi has not
been established to institutionalise the various
Art Forms, but to liberate them Institutions
of' gigantic dimentions have been established
in big cities of India with enormous ﬁnancial
resources and abounding support from the
Government and business houses. Bhopal has
almost stolen a march over all the Art

Fstablishements of the country with one only
Bharat Bhavan which in the coming years
will surely be the greatest international
centre of Art and Literature in India. It is
a Dream come true - the dream of the
miracle man of Madhya Pradesh —
'
Shri Ashok Vajpeyi. We as Indians are prou
of this achievement.

This naturally raises a question. When
such a gigantic Art establishment has been
created at Bhopal. why does a dwarf called
the Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-KalaAkademi

desire to maintain its pint-sized existence at
such a close proximity of Bhopal — at Ujjain ?
In answer to this question the Akademi
does not have any tall claims. There is no
need for it too.
Ujjain. incidentally. has a unique
personality created by history. This ancient-

most city of India has a rich cultural heritage
where in the name of the Immortal PoetLaureate Kalidasa there is a strong tradition
of Classical Sanskrit Theatre. UJJAIN is the
cradle of a Traditional Folk Theatre Form
of the Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh —
Maach and here meaningful modern
theatre movement is being carried on unabated

for the past quarter of a century. BhOpal.
the cultural capital of India. does not therefore

overshadow but supports Ujjflin which is.
modestly speaking. a natural seat of culture.
And this is whv Bhopal has created a new
Academy at Ujjain - the Kalidasa Akademi.

Now Ujjain has two Akademies — the
Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi
founded in 1976 and the Kalidas Akademi
established in l 979.

This naturally raises the second question.
When Bhopal has created a full-ﬂedged
Akademi at Ujjiln. a State academy for
Classical Art and Literature with all the
resources at its command, what is the need
of another Academy of Art and Literature at
Ujja in with very meagre resources. In

answer to this second question. the Madhya
Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi, again does
not have any tall claims. The only natural

