answer that may be offered is that with the
establishment of Kalidasa Akademi at Ujjain
the Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
Akademi did not die its natural death, but
gave the much-needed support of trained
theatreman to the Kalidasa Akademi. The
Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi.

was intact given the role of' the promoter of
the Kalidasa Akademi by the M. P.
Government with the membership of the
Governing Body of the Kalidasa Akademi.
Moreover. the Founder-Director of the
Mad hya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi was

invited to be the Theatre Adviser of Kalidasa
Akademi, the ofﬁce which he still holds.
Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok—Kala
Akademi is still struggling for existence,
although it has already attained state
recognition and popular acclaim. And most
of the signiﬁcant theatrernen of India have है
visited the MPNLA and the various theatre
centres have come in touch with it.

Now the third natural question is why
such an Akademi should exist at all when it
has constantly to struggle for existence.

MPNLA is struggling to stand on its own
feet on its own ground … ﬁrm and soild.
Although the Akademi is getting annual grant

from Government of Madhay Pradesh. it is only
one~tenth of our requirement. The Akademi मृ

accepts this grant With gratitude but also
accepts this fact that it is a decadant feudal
attitude of artists to expect Government ‘

patronage or support from other sources for
their sustenance. They feel as if it is the duty
of the state to give protection to artists and
art institutions and as if the artists are doing
something greater or higher than being done

by other intelligent people and as such they
deserve protection. support and patronage. .

This Feeling of being priviledged and belonging

to a very Special elitist class makes the artists
dependent arrogant and callous. They are
animals, no doubt, but unsocial animals individualistic and closeted in their shells of

ego — secluded. cut- off and rootless. And they
pursue the culture of the Ivory Tower which
also is rootless. In theatre, these elitists are

the advocates of a theatre which also is rootless.
And there are peOple — the common people-

those belonging to the traditional Folk
Theatre class Unfortunately. they are
uprooted. And this is the tragedy. There are
two classes of artists — one. who are rootless
and the other who are uprooted The MPNLA
is striving to bring a harmonious unision
between the rootless and the uprooted — It is
not a struggle between the haves and have

9

nots. because. in the case of artists both are
haveznots because both these categories are
similar in so far as both of them are devoid of
roots. It is the root that concerns the MPNLA.
This is why MPNLA while accepting
Government support shall not depend crudely
on Government support alone. It will accept
Government support because as an institution
devoted to culture. the MPNLA has the basic
right to claim its share in the tax payers
money. It will not depend crudely on

