Government support alone because MPNLA
believes in total independence not for the
sake of enjoying the unhindered fruits of
independence but for the sake of putting in
real hard labour to attain independence. This
is not the glossy cover-like show — piece —
longing for independence which need be
hoisted as one’s ﬂag. This is hard - earned
independence to preserve the independence.
By independence the Akademi does not want
to communicate irresponsibility and unchained,

unhindered ruthlessness. but it wants to
communicate the simple ideology of negating
dependence. And to bring this concept to be
worked into practice. the MPNLA will shortly
starts its own co-operative society which will
establish small and medium scale industries
for the sake of making the MPNLA as
sel कि utiic ien t.
The Building
For the past about two years the Madhya
pradesh Natak Lok-Kala Akademi has its
own building. A hut—like building with
Ashram type look has a small hall and eight
rooms with a very small campus with
boundry. The small hall is being developed
as the studio - theatre. The MPNLA
plans to maintain a growing library and
museum with a permanent exhibition. and
which. it is already doing in a small way.
The Building has been acquired from Ujjain
Development Authority on a lease for ten

years - lease rent being Rs. 500/- per month.
The akademi is trying to acquire a piece
of land in a semi-rural setting not far from the
Ujjain city where the industrial complex of
the MPNLA is prOposed to be built, may be,
with agriculture and poultry farm.

Director of the play
A social scientist by profession
Dr. Prabhat Kumar Bhattacharya who taught
postgraduate classes for about twenty ﬁve
years and carried on research guidance work
in Political Science with ﬁfteen research
scholars obtaining their Ph. D. degree under
his supervision, dabbled in student welfare
work for more than a decade as Dean, Student
Welfare. is at present looking after the work
of the Centre for Adult/Continuing Education
and Extension Programme of the Vikram
University, Ujjain as Director.

But his devotion to theatre and literature
has covered a span of about four decades. He
has produced and directed more than 100
Plays and acted in about 30 plays. H !8 major
prodUCtions in original Sanskrit are Shudraka‘s
Mrichhakatikam. Kalidasa’s Abhigyana—
shakuntalarn and Meghdaotam, Bhasa’s

pratimanatakam and Dootvakyam.
Vishakhadutta’s Mudrarakshasam He has
directed Shudraka’s Mrichhakatikam thrice,
ﬁrst in original Sanskrit. second in Hindi
based on his own adaption and the third in

. local dialect Malwi in Maach style. His major
productions in Hindi cover a wide range of
almost all signiﬁcant play-wrigts—Agyeya.
Dharmaveer Bharati. Mohan Rakesh. Badal
Sarkar, Vijay Tendulkar. Surendra Verma ’

and Others including his own plays.

