Dr. Prabhat Kumar Bhat‘acharya as a
play-wrigt has written a trilogy of verse
Plays - Kaathmahal. Pret Shatabdi and
Aagaami Aadmi, and seven plays — Satoria,
Thahari Hui Raat Adam Aur Adam. Charcha
Nagri. Chasnala, Chanakya and Dara and
as a literattear has written a long poem

Ek Kavita Zindagi a novel Rani Raikeyi .Ka
Safarnama. He has adapted l8 Sanskrit

plays into HJndi - 12 of Bhasa. 3 of Kalidasa,
one each of' Shudraka, Vishakhadutta. and
B hawabh ut i.
Dr. Bhattacharya is the member of the
General Council and the executive committee
of Madhya Pradesh Kala Parishad the M. P.

State Academy of Drama. Music, Dance and
Painting and also of the Kalidasa Akademi,
the M. P. State Academy of Classical Art
and Literature. He is the Theatre Adviser of
the Kalidasa Akademi, Ujjain. He is the
member of the Advisory Board of All India
Radio. Indore. He has her n a member of the
National Jury of the All India Competition
of Akashvani plays.
Dr. Bhattacharya is the Founder - Director

of the Madhya Pradesh Natak Lok-Kala
A k adem i .

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
I am just Twelve plays old in the arena

of Sanskrit Theatre. and it took me Thirteen
years to get that old. It is my Scholar friend
Sriniras Rath who initiated me to this
*divine’ language — Sanskrit. He, in his own
inimitable way. started reviving my memories

of late forties - school - days — learning of
Sanskrit. He dOes not teach grammar, nor

does he give lessons. He induces the learner
to fall in love with the language It is a
Specially designed unique Sanskrit Appreciation
Course that he has evolved for his one-teacher—
onetaught school where Acharya Srinivas
Rath is the Guru and PRABHAT is the
Shishya. My Guru-Dakshina, if at all. to
Srinivas is my well-planned conspiracy
to lure him to the world of theatre. which he
abhored initially. Endowed with deep
throated resonant voice. Srinivas is the Master
of Shloka - Recitation, which. when used in a

play, produces innumerable varieties of
classical Vachika Abhinaya. The case with
which he modulates his voice for different
characters of a play at once places him
in close proximity of a versatile Classical
Singer. It is my earnest desire to give his vocal
histrionic talent the much - awaited visual
form on the stage. and I am convinced.
a great actor will be born in Sanskrit Theatre.
A‘though we two Srinivas and myself,
have been associated with Sanskrit Theatre for
more than a quarter of a century, we actually

started our full-ﬂedged production of Sanskrit
plays since 1972.
Then came, on the theatre scene of Ujjain,
an eminent scholar of Sanskrit who has been
involved in Sanskrit Theatre for about 25 years
as Producer and Actor. He is Dr. Kamalesh

