Singh Rathore, Sheela Vyas and Others have
contributed to make it a joint effort.
It was in 1978 that we produced Bhasa’s
Pratimanatakam wherein Srinivas
Kath and Rajkumud were my Co-directors
with Om Prakash Sharrna handling the music.
Since then I have been toying with the idea
of producing the entire Rama Story by
combining two plays … Bhasa’s
Pratimrmatakam and Bhavabhuti’s
Urtar-Ranmcharitmz. I was quite
familiar with the script of Pratimanatakam
and as such I had some idea where and how
much the script could be clipped. Uttar Ramcharitam is such a gripping play that
I had to read it again and again to get the
feel of it. I decided to choose the visually
more lyrical passages. I then had a
marathon sitting with Sriniwas Rath - my
Guru. It is he and he alone who had to decide
which 'shlokas have to be retained in the
production script. He is a master in editing
a production script with my assistance. He

requires my assistance because of my
involvement in the designing of the play as
the Director. As a poet and scholar himself he
has his own priorities. but he does not thrust
them on me while editing a script.

In designing the Sanskrit play. I ﬁrst
divide it into three parts. the spoken words,
the recitation and the Dhruvas. The dialogues

have naturally to be delivered by the actors
but they have to render some Shlokas also
either in the form of a stylised dialoguedclivery or in the traditional form of Shloka
Paath. Then there are a number of Shlokas
which I do not allow the concerned actor to
render. I trasf'er them to the ‘Kutap’ where it
is either rendered in the varied traditional
recitational styles by Srinivas Rath and
Dr. Kamalesh Dutt Tripathi or they are
rendered in the Dhruva singing style by
Om Prakash Sharma and his associates. I use
the *Kutap’ f’or recitation and Dhruvas because
I strongly feel that the basic characteristic
of a Sanskrit productoin does not mean
stylised movement. Madras and the use of
mobile chorus only. but it is the presentation
of the spoken words which really
communicate the play. In this particular
production my learned friends Dr. Kamalesh
Dutt Tripathi and Sriniwas Rath - both

masters of Sanskrit poetrv recitation in
multiple styles—traditional and classical, have
rendered their voices for almost all the male
characters of the play. They adore the
‘Kutap’ along with Om PrakashSharma and
his associates.
As Music Director Om Prakash has not
only handled the entire music compositions
and the Dhruvas of the play with imagination
but has added a new dimension to it by using
Alaap as a meaningful extension even to the
dialogues at a number of places throughout
the play to heighten the pathos As a singer
he has himself rendered a number of
Dhruvas.

l3

As Dance Director. Rajkumud has choreographed all the dance-numbers of the

