play and designed the classical Mudras for
different characters of the play. He has himself
prepared himself for the dancing role of
Nandi — Vachak and JATAYU.

In designing the play, I had underlined
the situations where Dhruvas were to be
sung. The question, then arose whether the
Dhruvas were to be selected at random from
the vast treasure of Sanskrit literature or
they were to be written. We opted for the
latter because we were sure of the efﬁcacy of

the poet in Srinivas Rath. inspite of the
fact that these days he is lost in the world of

his epic in the making. Srinivas has not only
written the Dhruvas speciﬁcally for the preconceived situations but has also composed
the Nandi and the Bharat-Vakya.

Communication is invariably a perinniel
problem in all Sanskrit plays when produced
for non-Sanskrit audience. With this
production I am trying a device which, I fee],
shall bridge the communication gap to some
extent; I have introduced two characters,

who are rather common in Sanskrit plays —
Sutradhara and Nata — somewhat
differently in this play. They speak in Hindi.
They comment, narrate, discuss. raise
questions, explain, interpret and also react

but in brief. If this Sanskrit . play is produced
for non-Sanskrit and non- Hindi audience
then the Sutradhara and Nata will Speak in
that language which the audience understands.
1 have made use of Rangapattikas for
this production, not as decorative pieces or
gimrnic but meaningfully. ' They are there to

serve some Speciﬁc purpose. These
Rangapattikas have been designed by Satish
Dave, who has also designed. the masks and
other properties. He has also trained the
३ Sutradhara and Nata with the assistance of

Rajendra Awasthi. These twoyoung artists
along with Lokendra Singh Rathore have

assisted me in conducting thelrehearsals also.
It is nice to see these young theatre-workers
blossom into Directors-in the-making. The
training they received in the Madhya Pradesh
Natak Lok-Kala Akademi has, it appears.
prepared them for self-training and dedication.
Another artist with dedication is Abdul
Gafbor. He has the unique capacity to
irnprovice numerous varieties of stage
prOperties. In this production besides making
the masks. he has improvised the visual
forms of the animal world also.
On conceptual level, these two plays

synthesised into one for the present
production have one and the same theme
inherent within them. And the theme is that

violence on mental or physical level has no

place in human life. In Pratimanatakam
Bharata is under tremendous pressure of
agony and hatred which turns him against his
OWn mother Kaikeyi. This eruption of violence

within him almost like a'volcano tears him
apart under the pressure of which he uses a
language which no sane person will- ever uSe
for his mother. And when realisation dawns

I4

v upon him, he is again torn from within with

