She has worked for Interaction’s Doggs Troupe and the Half Moon
Young People’s Theatre, devising and performing in schools’ youth
clubs and community centres.

for the last year she has been appearing in the award winning play
Daisy Pulls It Oﬁ" at the Globe Theatre in London.

Gerald Harper’s career started at the Arts Theatre in London in a
season of all Bernard Shaw's one act plays.
After a year in repertory at Liverpool he returned to the Arts
Theatre to appear in Strindberg’s ‘ ‘The Father”, and then moved to
Shaftesbury Avenue in a famous revival of “Charley’s Aunt”.
Other West End appearances include Terence Rattigan’s “Ross”
which ran for two years at the Haymarket, “Suddenly at Home”
at the Fortune, “Baggage” at the Vaudeville and “The Little Hut" at

the Duke of Yorks.
His classical work includes two years with the Old Vic Company,
during which time he toured America with productions of “Hamlet",
“Twelfth Night" and “Henry V”. More recently he played Iago at the
Bristol Old Vic and Benedick at the Chichester Festival Theatre.
He returned to Broadway to star with Ian Carmichael in
“Boeing Boeing”.
In the 80’s he has played Sherlock Holmes at the Haymarket
Theatre. He had a long run at the Savoy in “House Guest" and
appeared in “A Personal Aﬁair” at the Globe.
He is probably best known for his television work in such long
running series as “Adam Adamant” and “Hadlegh”. In the latter
role he was twice voted the most popular actor on television.
He has appeared in over ﬁfty ﬁlms including “The Adrnirable
Crichton", “Tunes of Glory”, “The League of Gentlemen", “Shoes
of the Fisherman" and “ The Lady Vanishes" and has also directed
many plays.

Charles C Stephens. This is his third visit to India, having been
here with the Greenwich Theatre Production of “The School For

Scandal" and “Educating Rita” in 1982 and with the British Council’s
Production of “Duet For One" in 1983. He has toured for the
British Council to various countries over the years. These include :

Greece, Yugoslavia, Turkey, Syria, Nepal and Kenya.
Charles has recently completed a UK tour and West End run of the

National Theatre Production of “Guys and Dolls” and has currently
been involved with Alan Ayckbourn on “A Chorus of Disapproval"
at the Lyric Theatre, London.
~.

