THE BRITISH COUNCIL
ed by Royal
The British Council was established in 1934 and incorporat
tives from
Charter in 1940. It is governed by a Board, with representa
ment,
the universities, the arts and sciences, the trade union move

on
industry and the British government. Its headquarters are in Lond
and its representation is worldwide.
The aim of the British Council is to promote an enduring
understanding and appreciation of, Britain in other countries through
cultural, educational and technical cooperation.

The British Council provides information on British education, science,
medicine, technology and the arts. It offers recruitment, training,
consultancy and management services for educational programmes
abroad. It presents British drama, music, ballet and the fine arts.
It receives grants from the British government. It acts as an agent for
British and international agencies in administering technical
cooperation programmes and, in some cases, overseas institutions pay

directly for its services. हूँ,
Almost every part of British life is represented in the work of the

British Council. Though it is not part of the British Government, it
enjoys close links with both central and local government authorities;
with schools, universities, polytechnics, institutes of higher education

and professional associations and with the practitioners — the teachers
and academics, architects and construction engineers, radio and
television authorities, publishers and bdok-sellers. On the arts side, the
British Council works closely with theatre companies, orchestras and

ballet companies, art colleges, film producers, galleries and museums.

The British Council works with a variety of institutions and agencies
overseas. First, with governments and their ministries. Then, with
national educational and cultural organisations —— with schools and
universities, with research institutes and libraries. The range of clients
overseas is as diverse as the British Council’s work.
The Council has offices throughout Britain and in 80 countries
overseas. It has a staff of nearly 2000 in Britain and over 2000
O VC I‘5 ea 8 .

