यह इतिहास पुनीत, अति उमहि कही वृषकेतु ।
भरद्वाज सुनु अपर पुनि राम जनम कर हेतु ।।

THE STORY OF RAM
Prelude The peace loving Gods are attacked by demons. They pray to Vishnu the
Preserver.

his Guru’s bow.

He, however, recognises the

Divinity in Ram and blessing him, departs.

The Boons of Kaikeyee—King

Dashrath

Birth & Shiksha … Ram, Vishnu’s incarnate,

decides to hand over his kingdom to his eldest
is born as the eldest of the four sons of Dash-

son Ram.

Everybody

is jubilant with this

rath, the other three being Lakshman, Bharat

news.
and Shatrughan. Although an

incarnation,

The hunch-backed Manth'a, a maid servant

Ram as a child grows up under the aﬁ'ectio.

of the queen Kaikeyee poisons her mind, Kai-

nate care of his mother Kaushalya. The bro-

keyee compels Dashrath to make Bharat, her

thers receive their training in the scriptures

son, the King and exile Ram to the forest for

and the arts of wax fare from Guru Vashistha.

fourteen years. Ram leaves f< r the forest acco-

Swayamvara—The sage Vishvamitra asks
Dashrath’s perrnisssion in taking

Ram and

Lakshman with him to the forest to guard
other sages against interferring demons. Although Dashrath is hesitant, Vishvamirra takes

mpanied by Sita’ and Lakshman. Unable to
bear ths grief Dashrath dies.

Bharat’s Meeting with Ram—Bharat and
Shatrughan return to Ayodhya and ﬁnd what
has

happened.

Bharat

severly

reproaches

Ram and Laksbman with him. They kill Tarka

his mother and accompanied by the people of
and other demons. They

set out

also for

Ayodhya leaves for the forest to persuade Ram
Mithila to participate in the Swayamvaraof
to come back. However, he fails in this misson

King Janak’s daughter, Sita. 0n the eve of
and comes back with Ram’s sandles to place

the Swayamvara, Ram and Sita behold each
them on the throne, and himselfrules as Ram’s

other in the garden ofihe temple of Goddess
deputy for fourteen years.

Gauri. Sita prays to Gauri that Ram be granPanchvati—Ram, Sita and Lakshman decide

ted to her as her husband.

to pass the period of exile in the beautiful

In the Swayamvara non but Kan fulﬁls
the condition of the Swayamvara. He breaks
the bow. Sita garlands Ram.

forest of Panchvati.

Surpanakha—Sister of demon King Ravan.

The news of the bow brings Parasuramto

is enamoured by the youth of the two brothers.

Janakpuri, determined to punish the breaker of

She approaches one and then the other

27

