and Rule policy of the British.

About the

with the art. Mention must also be made of

same time, as an outcome of the I942 national
upsurge , a number of important theatre organisations-such as Indian People’s Theatre
Association, Indian National Theatre, and

Rablndranath Tagore, who presented many
of his plays as dance-dramas or dance-opera
s
using his ‘Santiniketan' style of dance-a
style

Indian Renaissance Artists—came

which has its roots in the Manipuri tradition

into exis-

but which, nevertheless, maintains an identity
of its own.

tence, and among them they produced several
stirring ballets, including Sprit of India, India
Immortal, Discovery of India and Rhythm of
Culture. A little later Shanti Bardhan created
Ramayana-a ballet in which human beings

The free dance scene in India that we have
surveyed so far covers the period from th
e
revival to more or less the dawn of Indian
Independence. Let us now take stock even i
f
in a very broad way, of all that transpir
ed
since.

act and behave like puppets, and this was
followed by Panchatantra. another work using
original and imaginative choreography.
All the ballets listed above, except those
.of Menaka. were composed in the style originated by Uday Shankar. or in some derivative
of it. All these works carried the essential
.components of ballet—choreography, theme,
decor and music. Some of them, however,
used songs as well, which were rendered by
the dancers themselves or by the supporting

The progenitor of the free dance movement
in India, Uday Shankar has, over the years

come out with only two productions: Samanya
Kshati and Shankarscope. The ﬁrst, which
means 'slight damage' is based on a poem by
Tagore. and in this Shanker tried out, for the
ﬁrst time, f'ull stage effects and decor. Samanya
Kshati has, in addition, the attraction of music

musicians. This means that they were not all

by Ravi Shankar. Shankarscope is a curious

ballets in the strict Westezn sense, but that
some were what for want of a better name

montage of dancing, acting, the cinema screen,

magic and the like: a most unusual experi-

“can be called 'operatic bellets‘. Attempts were

ment, indeed. Not to be overlooked, of course,
in any inventory of Shankar's work and con-

also made, at the same time, to compose ballets
or more correctly, ‘operatic ballets’ based on

Indian classical dance techniques.

tribution, is the ﬁlm Kalpana, produced in

The ﬁrst

E948, which has been described as a dance

to do so, as has already been pointed out, was

fantasy on celluloid and which incorporates,
albeit in snippets, some of Shankar’r earliest

Menaka. Important among the others whose
work in this direction has been pioneering are
Rukmini Devi, Mrinalini Sarabhai, Bipin
:Sinha and Brrju Maharaj. Another classical
dancer whose contribution deserves notice is
. Guru Gopinath. He introduced an innovation
by presenting dance numbers and ballets in

the

Kathakali

technique

but

dances, such as Shiva Parvati and Labour and
Machinery.

If not quite by himself, Uday Shankar’s

creed of dancing has been sustained, and in
a fairly rewarding way, by a handful of prize

without the

Qupils and

cumbersome costume and make-up associated

associated of his peak days:

Prabhat Ganguli, Narendra Sharma, Sachin

31

