I 18.09.2016 | NEW DELHI
I’HE SUNDAY GUARDIAN 2 0: SUPPLEMENT TO THE SUNDAY GUARDIAN

Young ईर्द Restless 29

z

ainaste France and Bonjour India to

३

strengthen Indo-Fr'ench cultural ties
and Ayaan AliBangash was
accompanied by Kumudini
Lakhia andher its-member
ndian Council for Cul- group performance.
Speakingabout the event,
I tural Relations (ICCR)
held a curtain raiser ICCR Director General, C
press conference recently. Rajasekhar said. “It isa fes»
announcing the long and tival of Indian culture. It is
magniﬁcent 75-daycultunl truly a celebration ofgrowfestival of India. Namath“ ing friendship, partnership
ante, starting 15 Septem- and cooperation between
ber and slated to continue the people of India and
till 30 November. The les- France following directly
tival will showcase the best from the directive of honof Indian traditional arts, ourable Prime Minister, Namusic and dance, theater. rendra Modi and President
graphic and decorative ofF‘ranm. It will witness the
arts. literature, cinema, joint performanceby French
fashion, gastronomy, yoga and Indianartists."
and ayurveda, among othThe festival willbe held in
ers ﬁelds The Embassy of ten French citieslike AviIndia in Paris, in collabo» gnon, Aix~errProvence,
ration with the ICCR, has Bordeaux, M a r s ei ll e ,
organisedthis festival.
Nantes. French oversea terICCR Director General ritories, like Guadeloupe,
C Rajasekhar, Alexandre Martinique, Saint-Martin
Ziegler, Ambassador of and Reunion, are also parFrance, dancer-choreogra- ticipatingin Nnmairéance
दध pher Astad Deboo, Kuchi- in order to pay homage to
pudi dancing couple Raja the splendor and diversity
and Radha Reddy, Santoor oflndian culture.
player Pandit BhajanSopari,
The germination of the
dasial dancerSonal Man— idea took place when at the
singh graced the occasion.
invitation ofthe President
The cultural festival Na- of the French Republic,
mयहि Francc inaugurated Mr Francois Hollande,the
in Espace Charlie Parker. Prime Minister of India,
Grande Hallode La Villette, Narendra Modi. had paid
Paris with a sarod perfor- an oﬂ-icial visit to France on
mance ofUstad Amjad Ali 1011 April 2015.
Khan withhis sons Amaan
On this occasion, Presi—-————,——

“It isaﬁstivaloflndian culture. It is 1mea

P RE EIl S lNGH

celebration ofgmuﬁngfriendsbip,partners/sip
and cooperation between t‘bepcople oflndia and
Francefollowingdireclbzfrom thedirective of
honourablePrime Minister: Narcndro Modi
and President ofFrance. It will witnessIbejoint
perfbrmance byFrench andlndianartists. "

Namuté Frlnu started [ram 15 Sept-moor Indwlll continua llll 30 November.
dent Hollande and Prime
Minister Modi had recalled
the utmost importance of
culture for the mutual un-

sador of France to India,
said, “France and India
share a great friendship,
which is reﬂected in our
derstanding of their two excellent bilateral relanations. They noted the
tionship. But it is nowhere
successful organization of better illustrated than in
two editions ofBonjaur In- the initiatives that bring
dia, the Festival of France our people closer. Namusté
in India, and the ﬁrst edi- France is a wonderful option ofNormal: France, the
portunity to boostthe vitalv
Festival oflndia in France.
ity ofour cultural exchangHighlighting the long- es. Culture, fashion andart
standing historical ties are strongly related to the
between France and India, images ofboth France and
Alexandre Ziegler, Ambas- India, and these areas are

the best to enhance what I
call a strong "partnership
from the heart" between
our twocountries.”
Alexandre Ziegler also announced about the Bonjour
India festival which will be
held next year. "I am also
delighted to announce that
the third edition ofthe Bonjour India festival. Namaslé
France andBanjourlndia will
enable a wholenew generation ofyouths in both couritries to discover the common vision that they share

of the world and novel ways
of expressingit. France and
India have shared historical
and friendly ties for centuries. The French audience
is a ﬁne connoisseur of the
subtleties ofIndian culture,
and enjoys authenticity as
well asquality. Wethus hope
that NamurtlFrante festival
will meet the expectations
ofthe public and that it will

furtherreinforce thefriendly
relations that bind the स्था.
ples ofthese two countries
together,” said Ziegler.

Many internationally rcnownedartists — including
legendary dancer-choreographer Astad Deboo. re~
nowned Kuchipudi dancing couple Raja and Radha
Raddy, illustrious santoor
playerPandit Bhajan Sopori,
violin maestro Dr. L. Submmaniam, sarod virtuoso
Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and
his sons Amaan and Ayaan,
master dhrupad exponent
Ustad Sayeduddin Dagar,
Kuttiyatam master Sivan
Namboodri, and theatre veteran Girish Kamad — will
mesmerize the French audience with theirimmense
talent. Spiritual leader Sri
Sri Ravi Shankar, fashion
designerRahul Misln-a and
Michelin—starredcherineet
Bhatia willalso be part ofthe
personalities who willparticipatein NamasléF‘rzmcr.
“This cultural festival
will also celebrate Diwali

and Navratri in France,
see “East marries West"themed concerts odeissi,
Bharatanatyam and an
IndoAFrench Kathakjugalbandi, as well as feature
spiritual lectures. Performances and screenings

,
‘
_
'

.
दृ

will take place in iconic '
venues like La Villette, the is

Opera Bastille, and the Ci- दृ
nématheque Francaise," t
shared Rajasckhar.
i
“Navralri Feslival would t
becelebratedbetween3and दु
11 October in France with '
the Sujit Vndur troupe. i
Diwali, too, would be cel- l ३

ebrated in Paris on B No- '
vember with performances
by Pandit Bhajan Sopori.
The festival would end on
so November 2015 with a
violin performance by Dr. L

।
l‘
i
[
l

Subramaniam anda Kuchi- 1,
pudi dance led by Raja and
Radha Reddy," Rajasekhar
added.
‘

