saruno/w. ocroesn 22.2016

.

I ink i 4 {

I WATCH
r

a

,-

.-

xz

', x
‘

,,

a.

.1 I .

York. Contraryto popular wisdom, works by
Surprise package A selection of the works featured atthe recent Christie’s auction of SouthAsian contemporary art in New
big names like VS Gaironde and SH Raza remained unsold 01: m; ३mars UW'TDZOYD

contemporary artists ३
A recent Christie’s auction may well be the tipping point as far as the fortunes of
contemporary artists from South Asia are concerned
C urprises marked the auction ofSouth

V ३ xo N

५

..i

jana Klein,international Head ofDepartment
for South Asian Modern and Contemporary
Art. Shedescribed the auctionas an “anomaly”
compared to previous seasons, but did not
comment further. The New York sale contained works by at least three new artists. and
others who have beenon the auctionplatform
only afew times before,
’ Christie's conducts three sales ayear in the
category of “South Asian Modern and
Contemporary Art‘: London in May, New York
in September. and Mumbai in December.The
sale in New York oﬂ’ercd new names that use

styles and media thatbreak the mould ofshe
usual line-up. According to Klein, the process
of identifying these boundary~pushing artists
began over a year ago. with specialists re-

,- ,

u '

Momorygunes Anila QuayyumAgha‘s 'All the
Flowers are For Me'to.“ count“ mlwcmcm

Mod-mtimes A second-tier modernist like SatISh

searchingthe quality and consistency oftheir
workand their success in the internationalexhibitioncircuit, Biennaies and art fairs. “itwas
a bold step for us to pick installation art by

teerned Arthur: 2014. was featured at
Christie's for the ﬁrst time. Growing up in

Guiral performed well atthe auctionam when unann-

lahore,Agha was acutely aware ofthe limit-

ationsplaced on her as a young woman. She
was denied entry into mosques — spaces re
served for men A visit to the Al-liambra in
installations like Gupta's (titled ‘Someone
Else‘) possess an immediacy and relevance Spain as an adult. however, gave voice to this
that work on a very broad scale — a scale that painful childhood memory.
In the piece featured in the auction, the art~ L
surpasses traditional indian themes with
ist recreates intricate floral and
ideas that interest and concern
geometric motifs from lsiarnic
viewers everywhere, whether or
not they are indian. Her piece
3५५५-८५
architecture using embroidery
consistedof 35 books published
and ﬁll eeslike work on paper.
by real authors using pseudA‘w’s'mpleuph
its ritleF'IAil The Flowers_Are For
onyms. Gupta recreates these
mm.
Me', poignantly captures the re
books by etching their covers in
"um-mm
lease she has found in her art,
Stainless steel and searing them
m“
and how she uses it to reclaim
on metal shelves. By building
\‘Vg
what was once forbidden.
१‘2
The International success of
the books in metal, the artist exthese artists reveals a change in
tends the gravity and permarr
how markets are coming to redeﬁne and view
ence associated with engraving to the reasons
why these authors chose to hide their real South Asian contemporary art. The ideas of i
names and adopt false ones— whether to pro- identity and politics that concert) newer t;
tect themselves from persecution or to ex- South Asian artists stem from a global conplore the freedom of a new identity. 'ihere's sciousness that Is nottied to national lty. By in—
nothing Indian about it."said Klein, referring vesting ln these new works. collectors have i
to Gupta's work it uses a languagethat is uni- shown that they’re betting on the future.
I
versal. At 40, Gupta was one of the youngest
P
an“arm lonurn Is a New Jerseyvbased
artists featured.
,.
Anila Quayyum Agha, winner of the es- freelance writer

someone like Shilpa Gupta," said Klein.

दृ ८ 1

Asian modern and contemporary art
0 at Christie‘s in New York City on
September 14, during Asian Art Week
An untitled painting by VS Gaitonde (india's
most expensive modern painter), valued at
SLB-z rniliion, did not sell. it was displayed
front and centre in the auction hall and on the
cover of the sale catalogue. A meditation in
green, it radiated Gaitonde‘s trademark
serenity, but went unclaimed. lust four
months earlier; in May, a Gaitonde painting
sold for over $2 million at Christie's London
sale. Another featured painn'ng, ‘L‘Orage' (The
Tempest) by the great modemistSli Eaza was
valued upwards of a million dollars, butit too
went unsold, Though it‘s premature to make
predictions based on a single sale, these results could be indicative of a larger trend
sweeping the market and changing the way
audiences
perceive
modem
and
contemporary indian art. Second-tier modernists like Jamini Roy and Satish Guiral, and
younger artists with signiﬁcantly different vo
cabuiaries from the old masters performed
very well at the auction, even exceeding expectations in some cases
Thereseems to bean appetite for works between $10,000 and $200,000," said Deepan-

ट
i

r

