३ Travel 25

I NEW DELHI
THE SUNDAY GUARDIAN 20: SUPPLEMENT TO THE SUNDAY GUARDIAN I 23.10.2016

Fusion ofstyles, cult'es & continents
at this year’s International Folk Festival
The latest edition of the Rajasthan lntemational Folk 7cstii'al (RIFF), held annually in the historic city ofjodhpur, concluded last week
with some standout performances by Indian and international folk musicians. BHUMIKA POPLI writesabout the highlights of RIP P 2016.
plar) musicians from acrog
Rajasthan and around the
World. AndJodhpur Rl FF
gives them both, this is why
festivals like Jodlipur RIFF
are important,“
r
"iieJodhpurRajasthan
The festival's latest edition
International Folk was marked by the pres
Festival ( R1 F Fi was ence offolk musicians from
iield atthe Mehrangarh Fort. seiera] parts of the world . as
in Jodhpur, front 1317.. well musicians from diﬂ‘er
ber. An initiative ofthe Meh- entstatesin India Australian
rangar'h Museum Trust and percussionist Ben Walsh.
Jaipur \irasat Foundation. Scottish samplionist Brian
Jodhpur RlF‘F is held every
.\iol.‘iey,Frenchman DavySi year around the same time. tard and several others perso that it conincides with the iormed at RIFF2016
shamdpumima — thebrightFestival director. Divya
est full moon ofthe year
Bhatia said, "Then: are some
The lite-day टाटा।।reached new aspects to the festival
its crescendo with back- this year, such as storytellto~back performances by ing and sortie workshops.
Rajasthani folk and internaWe try and bring in a new
tional musicians,running till cultural ormusical element
latenight and stretchinginto or two, everyyear. It keeps
the wee hours with its sein- us on our toes and keeps the
tillating dawn concerts, The festival fresh for our regular
ninth edition ofthe festival visitors. We feel really con»
was aimed at popularising ﬁdent that we can continue
the folk singers and musito innovate and experiment
cians oftheregion and giving and bring about the best
them anin ternationai fortun, that Rajasthani folk has to
Speaking on the signifi- offer, along with some ofthe
ca nce 0i J od hp ur R i FF, most exceptional artists of
the patron of the festi- the world."
val Maharaja क्रि] Singh 11 of
The first day ofJodhpur
Marvvar-Jodhpursaid, “The RlF F started with a special
Rajasthani folk musicians “children‘s folk morning".
are at the core ofJodlipur The Veer Durgadas MemoRlFFl It is important that rial Park here hosted young
they feel asense ofpi-ideand musicians,featuring the unv
dignity, a sense ofhorne and usual, rich and Vibrant [em/r
are ableto present what their Ialr' and gair dances. Dance
peers and elders consider forms like Knchr'gbadi and
authentic. At the same time. thha/arlmlla were also pertheyrealise that there are op» formed on dummy horses
pommitiesforthem as artists while men in elaborate cointheir own rigit —to Create
lourful costumes danced
andto coilaboi-atiewith exem ~
rhythmically to drum beats

l

l

Khan presenting “druid dadi
kcgaane [songs ofmygrand-

FEATURE

mother and grandfather]?
He sangsome of his favourites from the songs handed
down frorii his grandpar»
cuts to him, and rarely heard
today in the villages ofthe
M a nga n iy ar cornin u n it y
themselves.
Maru ’I‘ar’ang advancedthe
night with exquisite fusion
of lndian and Australian
folk forms, founded in the
desert lands of Rajasthan.

Australian artist Jeff Lang

Musicians tram diuerant partsat India, as wall as those from countrieslike Australia and Scotland participath in RIFF 2016.

and singers narrated the exploitsofthe Bhavariabandits
ofShekhawati.
A special performance by
babmpiyu artists — masters
of the artful disguise क्वे was
also put up at the venue on
Day One. Kawa circus, lndia’s first Rajasthani circus
act featuring traditional artists ofRajasthan,was among
the highlights ofthe day's
itinerary. There were almost
4,000 students present to
witness the various Rajast~
liani folk formsat the park.
The rendition of soulful
flhlljﬂ’ls from the Meglivtal
community ofMa rwar com7
plimenttd the serenity ol'tht-

“The Rajastbanifolk musicians areat the
core oﬂodbpurRIFF. It is important [but
[bake] a same ofpri'de anddignity, a sense
ofbomc andare able topresent whattheir
peers andelders considera utberitic. ”

early hours oftlicday. lntcrac tivc storytelling ३ ‘sions with
the [MIAMI artists and those
from the bhadlii, Munganiyar, (‘haran and Mcw‘at conimunitiesrecited the legends
popularin theirregiun. While
the Mount artists pcrfunnt-(l
tht-irovm versions ofthe Loh

Ramayana and Lok Mahabharata, the stories from other
communities were woven in
soulful ragas such as Sool)
क्वे an auspicious raga oftlic
Mangau iiynr. Kachclii Kafi and
Sindhi Bhaimvi being played
on the beautiful instrument
Kiunaychzi.

The third day saw the
m ucli -aw aite d gig at C 1 ub '
Meliran by Scotland's 13mous DJ and remixer, DJ
Dolphin Boy, who presented
a loop ofgenre-bending and
mix-tape music Hismusic i s
inspired by the philosophies
of the groove-based, funk,
jazz and Celtic music of the
‘sos, '6०5 and'7os.

at once for the listenersat the
dawn concert.
A focused session on the
aero-phonic instruments
of Rajasthan was held in
the afternoon. featuring
rare and fast-disappearing
instruments of Rajastlnm.
The instruments included
the algoza, the narh. the
murla. murli, been. surnni
,md many others, Dri Vijuy

rnita Bellur openul the
Sfourth diiy atJOdhpur
R] (T with her spiritual vocals in Kannada. 1 lindi
and Urdu. 'i‘raversing Hindustani and Carnatic vociil
styles, Smith's recitals were
uplifting and licnrtrcntling

Verrna, along with many
artists of these instruments,
demonstrated the instruments through their pliysicn l
descriptions.
The performances at [lit'
main stage started with the
experienced singer Anwxir

on guitar and Bobby Singh
on the tabla joined forces
with two famous artists of
Rajastliani music. Asin Langa on sarangi. and Bliurigar
Manganiyar on khartal. The
idea ofthis impromptu col laboration “as to create new
music across countrieswith
musicians who have never
worked togetherbefore
The much-anticipated act
ofthe five-day musical extravaganza. RiF‘F Rustle.
was led by Ben Walsh, The
team comprised a bunch
of artists. including Anwar
Khan Manganiyar (vocals).
Ross Dallyand Kelly Thoma
(Greek iyrzi). Gcorgouiis
'I‘axiarchis (oud), Brain Moliey (saxophone). ’i‘om (keyboards), Jcil“ Lang (guitar).
Bobby Singh (tabla) and
iii any mo re.
As the twilightdescended on
the lastday ofjodhpur RIFF.
it was time tolisten toJasleen
Kaur Mongn and mag-based
S/hlbﬂlb‘. n r!and/{111p from tli c
holy GriI/iII/Sd/rr'bin her melo~
(lit)th voice (.‘iln‘lt‘dशाणराष्ट the
Jaiswnnt 'l'hndni

