THE TELEGRAPH CALL‘UTTA SATURDAY 2 । NOVEMBER 2015

‘ '

V

रि ___._v__ r

E:

7, ,

VﬁA

-

,

,

ﬂ 7 Y

r

'१

. i मि
RE V
ARI 7Sनि
क्या IEW
r

, ,,

' ने
3" "

Suspended in anticipation
’भू

inong its host of talented

\\

authors.

for depressron and
possibly paranoia.
Sohinr Senguptn.

directors. de~

\ signers and actors, Ben’
is gali theatre feels the
dearth tnostly of new writers who titrre. Talk Radio (1987). In no way
think differently. who break out of does this debt lower fllS achieve
the share es of its forrrrulae atrd tiretrt, because hehas composed an

८ 1२ a

त्मा

Kathakali Jana
t would perhaps not be out of place to say that Swan Lake.
like Shakespeare’s great tragedies. has been and continues to be arrrongthe strongest inﬂuences on danceand
theatre performers all over theworld. centuries aﬂer they

were created.Additionally. take epics like the Mohabhami.
and you have some of the richest sources forartists to draw
om.
Rbytlunosaic's recent presentation at the Nazrul ’l‘irtha
auditorium drew fromthe two timeless words mentioned
above The ambition the choreographers exhibitedin exploring the thematic scope of the great worksin theirtwin offerings. excerptsﬁom Swan LakeRevis‘
uddha — The
Why Within, isdoubtlesly admirable. So is the sweep of
imagination in terms of choreographic variety and dance
material, in which Katlrak Flamenco,Tap dance. classicalbal»
let and classicalj azz come togetheron one platform to form a

whole. 01' atleast. they wereexpected toform a spectacular
whole. WithGianin Loringett of P‘ratrcejoining Ronnie
Shambik Ghose and Mitul Sengupta in creating a dance lan-

guage forthe two productions. and with dancers from india.
Italy and Fiance p ‘ the various characters. therewas
enough eyeball grabbingaction on stage.

ut. unfortunatelysortie of the parts stoodout insteadof
merginginto and३
'
viem an org ' whole.

conventions, who grapple with
pressing issues of contemporary

original piece. growing an rndige
trous plant frottr Bogosian's seed

start on a Journey that

life to draw in younger audiences

about a shock-jock talkshow host.

she should continue.

otherwise disengaged by its perceived "unfashionable" preoccupation with older age groups. Although trot debutatrts. two such

He borrows only the studio setting
and protagonist's background direct. of previous employment as a

dramatists hold out promisefor its

ogosian's callers faked his girlfriend‘s overdose. Mukherjee has a
girlthreatening suicide; and where
Bogosian had abomb hoax in a box.
Mukherjee has... well. see it for

future. based ontheir बांधाworks.
Arindarn Mukherjee. founderdirector of Story Teller. is one of
them. who nrade an impact with the
group's inaugural play. 2218 Baker
Street. fiveyears ago. Butsilence de
soended aﬂer that. apart froma sec

trorrdescript salesman. Where one of

when she gives in to
the son option
screening
overexposed news clips of

3!

re- m“ «

Not quite even

who acts the doctor

wars and bloodshed.
too many theatre dr-

trd production that did not survive
ts
'
' t. leading tireto pon»
der sadly that Story 'I‘eller mightbe
a onehit wonder: However, their
comeback with F
ahanagar
raises hopes once again. in tact.
Mukherjee had written this ﬁrst. in

rectois have resorted
ourselt‘
tothis technique late
But Multherjee develops a com‘
lySwanlekha Sengup
pletely separate outline. Bogosian
narrowed it down to the host's rela- heavy text. Anirban Bhattacharya premiered Bipoiitiaia. his next play. ta portrays intensely the latent fear
tionship with his wife. disintegrat- is perfectly believable as the typical before The former examines ex- that manymothers in Calcutta have
areas, where to contend \vrtb on a daily basis.
ing live. on-air. Multherjee focuses chrrpy FM anchor keeping listeners tremism rn
‘ ‘ of what theirchildren may
on thehost's final dishonest abdica‘ booked with his nonstop garrulity as the latter deals with mental illtion of his notorious outspoken» and deliberately obnoxious taunt- tress in the City: both respond to the have to encounter: andin doing so.
tress. the very trait that made him so ing (prcturet. He does his obligatory mindless violence in our lines in Br- steals the show
Both plays end rather abruptly,
pannata. a schoolteacher visits a
popular.
course, the commercial applausewinning turtr wi

2007. but shelvedit owing to ill ad-

foundation of such programming

vice. He needs to ditch such advisors

overlays both plays 7 itruch more traps the one dispensable moment
entrenched in theUS. attackedso far» Among thecallers. Chandan Sen is
mously in Sidney Lumet's classic just brilliant as a historyobsessed
filtrr Network. but amply evident on senior regular. while boknath De

and tread his individual path ttrore
frequently

As with his admiration forSherlock Holmes on 2218, Mukherjee
found inspiration (tomanother foreign source:
erican avant»
garde solo performer Eric Bo
gosian’s breakthrough into the big

lndian channels today. Highratings

trump everything else. especially
human values.
Mulrherjee holds our interest di-

rectorially. despite his dialogue-

expected dance showpiece 7 per

quietly creates the climax with the
choice he presents.
Debotosh Das‘s first script. 0

psychoanalyst for the treatment of
her son. a computer engineer who
refuses to go to office because he
cannot handle anymore the strife

and conﬂicton the roadsas well as
in the world; and he cannot speak
his mind openly. As the drama
unfolds on a bleak grey set. we

Chand. is Nandipat's current pro discorer that not just the youth but
duction. but Nandrkar had already the mother herself needsattention

So much so that at the endof the evening's doublebill, one

went backwith the feeling
t Sengupta. an acoottrplish
Kathak dancer; had run away with all the glory In her Kathak
solos, whetherit was the sharp execution of who: and
pawnsor in theprecision of crystal clearlaris andfootwork,

ike every year. this year too the [TC

tie expression used in the two works.
Whatremains a little hazy isthe reason for the choice of
these twostories forthe productions. The logic for contempt)

Sangeet ResearchAcademy and the Ramakrishna Mission institute of Cul-

' ‘

classics and mythology is surely toexamine their in-

swan. or that of a man and a transgender person. thetension

is created by theirbeing denizens of different — almost paral
बै

let 7 worlds. The fairy talein Tchaikovsky's great work. as

much as the myth of Aravarr.delves into the obstacles on the
७३ path of lovers and tire tragic circumstances of their sepam»
। tion panning out into tales of profound sacrifice. The wanton»

‘ ness of the forces actingagainst the lovers creates conﬂicts
, । that enrich the narratives. One wishes that Rhythrtrosaic's
presentationstrad dugdeeper under the surface of the great

works and culled out their essence.

A gift for the mother

both take around ninery minutes or
less. they permit more eimamrre
resolutions.
id the
Lists
run out of fitting ideas for cotrclu~

sion. or have I fallen into conventional expectations that 1 myself
criticized at the beginning of this

review”

-shad Ali Khan'svocal recital inRang Multani.
in the vilnmbi! composition. the itrandiu sap
wk wasused well but. overall. the L'lSlaIS were
repetitive. Things changed for the better

she stottd out, providinga powerful foil to the other forms of

natepower; intensity and universal appeal.
BothSwan
an themyth of Aravan dealwith love in
its myriadlayersof fulfilment. ecstasy,disappointment. hurt.
।
d oom Whether it is in thelove between aman and a
_

Angshumitra Dutta

leaving the spectator virtually
suspended rn anricrpanon. Since

ture joined hands to present Arpan, an offer-

ing to the mother.that took place atthe RKM‘s
institute of Culture at Goka on October 31
and November 1
The first day of the concert started with a
vocal recital by Kunrar Mardur. the young
tutor at the SRA. He presented Raga l’uriya

Dhanashree. His visionin vilambi't were a bit
monotonous as there was very little use of
itiaudt'a sapIakand madhya saplak. The [oar
raptak vistars sounded a bit harsh. But he
saved the show with the famousdnit bandislt.
“Payafi'njhankar”. and the iamna itr ekiaoI.
His mastery over icons was evident iir the
drut part. His next presentation was the tiradhyafayo bandish, “Devi blitzth [)iirga bliau-

' n Raga Durga. followed by a drui in ekiaal. he uccoinpatrirrrentby Szurjay Adhiknri

(tabla) and Jyoti Golro tharnroniunr) is uortlr
a special mention.
The second programme of the day was a
sitar recital by theSRA srholnr, Ayiui Sengup
ta.accompanied by Snurnr Soho on tabla, He
played Raga r\lcu'u Biling. Tilt‘ brief alap was
followed by a flashy lOif. Then he played two
guts iti mental 7 both were
catchy and tlroﬂiola was well

played. He played only one
rrrga for more than rur huru' but

Ajoy Ctrakmbarty (picture! that started With when the dim skirted. The fast bijli malts.
the vitamin: bandtsh. ‘z-t/ Malinda» been ba- a-karmans seemed to be his forte and Khan
Jui". in RagaShankara. His voice swam thro
ug all three octaves Thelayakuri’ in क्या। was
interesting with balloons. properly supported
iii the vocals by Chaltrabarty's disciple. Anol
Chatterjee Tire complicated loans seemed ef-

fortless in his silky voice. The second drui.
"Brtj

nieiri dhoom maellat". was equally
enthmllirig. His nextpresentation was Begum Akhtar's
rumr .
“Saiyaan
gays

performance toa different height.
The last performance of the evenmg was
dlirupod by Pnndit Udny Bharvalknr in Raga

patties". which spread it "1810‘ Puma The chipwas stretched so long that it
dious melancholy in the air. made the listeners quite irnpanent Thedime
in [Mutual was
He ended his performance pad. "Porto/i natli 5hr

it didn't sound boring 'l‘trt- "11८८

b ' Szurrnr' Suhu
rs ‘ red for tltr'
last part of the owning l‘trr~
was the vocer rcutxrl by l‘nrntrt -

played to the gallery The next performance
was a slide guitar solo by Rajat Bbarrrti. He
played Raag Hemant. which is a creation of
Ustad Alauddin Khan. The arbor was planed
with expertise The ieenlaf gar showed the
various moods of the raga. Again. Samar
Saha's apt accompaniment on tabla took the

witha composition which was
it customary tribute in Swiran

Vivekanrurda.
-

11८७' "No started \\'llil Ar~

sung in a wounded way and the gomaks
Shone bright in his wellmunded voice. The
‘econd composition. "Tali mart dliaii reori' .
r so lrred tip toexpectnuuns

