O

A ‘\\

wrx/ﬁ
/

i

r» - [J M;

, ,कुंजू निकुरे;

Q

‘

/

a? if i/

‘ / .2
Kदृ r x» ’ /दं

I

\

1

“(W

,2; ३

I“

i ,’

I' v ’

/ ५ i e,» ८ f 9;, . z ‘ ८\ .
_A

l

PLAY STAGED
IN THE US, BASED
ON THE WIDOWS OF
VRINDAVAN, WAS
DEPICTED WITH
POIGNANCY, WIT AND
HUMOUR, WRITES
MANJAR |
S l N HA

O

५ (2:)

/\/‘ ५

g.

cclaimed to be the biggest Indian theatrecompany in the US, Natak was founded in 1995 by the students at UC Berkeley andStanford, toproduce intelligentand entertaining plays in Indian languages. Its members
are drawnprimarily from thehigh~tech industry in the Silicon Valley. Over a short period
ofjusttwo decades Natak has produced 50 plays
andearnedrecognition for its high standards.
Natak’s50thmilestone production Vrindavan,
thatwon theKnight FoundationAward, isbeing
staged at nine differentvenues across the Bay
Area to reach its large audiences.
TheCubber'ley Theatre, PaloAlto, was ﬁlled
to capacitywhen Suj it introducedthe play Vrindavan. Suiit Saraf, thefounder and artistic direc. . ~c

tor of Natak, is a well-known author, who
has written 10 plays and directed more
than 20. His third novel The Confession
of Sultana Daku, published by Pen—
guin, is being made into a motion picture. Inspired by a news item that cre«
ated an uproar in 2014, when Bolly- .
wood’s dream girl Hema14511111, themem- '
ber of Parliament from Mathura, visited a widow-home in Vrindavan and
suggested that Vrindavanwidows should
हैं
remain in their homes in Bengalor Bihar » > *
instead of overcrowdingVrindavan; Suj it
wrote this play, which is the touchingstory
of thousands of widows who, ostracised
by their family, live in poor conditions
as Daasi, or maids,in Vrindavan, the city
of widows.
'I‘he play‘s writer director Suj it made the
experience unusuallyfresh andrelevant right
from the beginning when the Vrindavan widows, wearing white dhoti andChandan-Tilak,
walk through the aislesof the jam packedhall,
on to the stage designed as the bank of river
Yamuna, rejoicing and reciting Krishna-Ravita in chorus and individuallyholding the basket with the idol of the newborn Krishna on
their head alternately. The play revolves round
these 12 feisty widows living in raucous celebration in anartistically designed widow-home
in Vrindavan, until a Bollywood actress arrives
to disrupt their lives and ultimately they decide
to submerge themselves one by one inthe river
Y'amuna, than being forced to return to their
native homes from where they were discarded as unwanted creatures.
'I‘he stark existence of Vrindavan widows,
juxtaposed with Meera Bhajans, gyrations of
Bollywood songs and group dances, is depicted with poignancy, wit and humour by Sujit.
The powerful acting and dialogue delivery of
each and every widowand the thoughtfullycomposed music by Nachiketa Yakkundi with
, w दृ झ, 'TT‘WW-’:""\%"-‘¢’
चू'बइत्रणड्डब्जेई हैं...५-मृद्गहै
t … ' ३1 टु

't

melodious touches of Raga Khamaj, Desh, Kir»
wani, Maru Bihag and the Rajasthani folk et
a1, with the authentic use of Organ, were the
strongest elements of the compelling musical.
whereas the dance left much to be desired.
Although the use of Raj asthani folk dances
like Ghoomar and ’I‘erah-Taali were commendable, the Kathak element withits populist
approach was totally devoid of choreographerBandana Sen's chaste style. No doubt the direc—

tor has worked wisely with the acting aspect,
the colourful costumes, artistic sets,lights, live
music and dance; however; the profundity in
understanding how much drama canbe derived
from dance and movement counterpoint,
seemed missing at times.
The acting of the Vrindavan widows was
powerful and the music seemed to penetrate
their agony andj oy. The group dances byD ipanwita and her dance ensemble tried to entertainbut the compromisingapproach of the dance
director did not bear the choreographer's signature. In f'act, it was the music that made it
tolerable. On the whole, Vrindavan will not fade
with season. Thepowerful play would keep reverberating in our consciousness.

