A still from the play

'1:.

Ann...

‘Veli' Unveils Bitter Facets

of Parenting, Child Abuse

PIC: MARTIN LOUIS

by Vishnu Vasudevan

logues, which added an extra element of
emotion to their voices.
Basu said in theatre, ‘blocking’ is an
important tool that directors must em—
ploy while staging plays. Unlike other
theatre directors, Basu said he decided
on the set ﬁrst and then moved on to the
characters and later to the rehearsal.
“Since the set was decided ﬁrst, I urged
the actors to move around the stage.

n adaptation of a Bengali Play, Veli
attempted to bring to light the isues of child abuse and abortion.
Set in America, the play tells the story of
a con 1e who had to hand over their 18mont -old son to the child protection
service (CPS), who accused the father of
physically harming the child. The play
was screened on Saturday at Alliance Moreover, the osition of each character
is important. T ey were never static, they
F'rancaise.
Except for a few chairs, the stage al- had to move around delivering dialdgues.
I wanted the actors to
most had no sets, but
every single actor emotUsing the technique master their movements.
Once they did that, the
ed their arts to their
of ‘blocking‘, the
audience could feel the
best. Eac of thethem
had uni ue traits that
actors equally used emotion in their dialogues,” Basu added.
they ex ibited when ,
'
'
For RajeeVAnand, who
dealing with other charthew les to
acters in the play.
effectively
played Rajan, the shorttempered father of the
“Veli is a struggle to
communicate a
18—month—old kid, the
establish the truth. The
range of emotions contrast between his own
intention of every charEersonality and that of
acter is extremely im—
is character was
ortant in the 'ourneyto
rid the trut . That is recisely why, marked. Pleasant in nature, Rajeev said,
while rehearsin , I aske an actor, ‘why “It took two months to get into the skin
are you saying w at you are saying? ’” said of the character. The director was con—
Pranab Basu, the play’s director. “I stantly by my side, guiding me in under—
worked on the Ben ali script to make it standingthe character. It seemed difﬁcult
tight and later deci ed not to put up any in the beginning, but as I proceeded I
sets even though the characters do go to began emoting Rajan better,” he says.
Originally named Palok, the Bengali
different places. I wanted the audience
to follow the characters and be able to play was ﬁrst translated into English and
identify with each of them. It is the char- then to Tamil. Amshan Kumar, the ro—
acters that make this an intense dra- ducer and the person who translate the
play from English said, “I was drawn to
ma.”
The actors adeptly used theirbodies to this topic. The relationship between a
communicate certain emotions. They husband and awife is changing over time.
strutted around the stage, makin sure The play is an attempt to redeﬁne that
they moved while they delivere dia- relationship. "

