( है )
The conditions of life were so tt rturous that the newly couple had to face
the most difﬁcult situations of life. At this turning point of the play it
is show being enacted that frustrated with exploitation of labour and consequently difﬁcult conditions of life, Ramesar decided to go to a distant
place (calcutta) to earn his livelihood. This decision of Ramesar
had the impact of his friend's advice Bachana. The decision of Ramesar
to go to Calcutta is opposed by his old mother and wrfe Amali. The
mother narrated to his son that under such compelling circumstances his
father had gone to a distant place and never returned. She was then pregnant. And she spent her long span of life in futile waiting. She also
expressed her doubt that the Zamindars of the Village like Mahadev Rai
& Abrar Khan would get angry if he left the village. Amali also tries to
make her husband understand the more difﬁcult situations she will have
to face in his absence but he listens to none and leaves the village.

The narrator renders the conditions of Amali in Poorvi Alaap style—
“APANA JHOPARIA MAIN HAIN KE KAWARIA”. In this song
the Sutradhar tells that Amali sheds tears in absence of her husband

thinking that had his husband been here she would have put on the
cosmetics of his choice. The entire village is full of people but none of
them is close to the heart of Amali. Immediately, after this Poorvi Alaap,
the Chorus sings a song in Jhoomar style—“PIYA NIPAI‘ NADANWA,
HE SAJANI”. In this song it is told that the husband of Amali is a fool
that hearing his newly wife he had gone to Calcutta Still Amali renders

her husband from the core of her heart and spends somehow her days and
long mighty waiting for her husband. The home does not bring any
comfort to her mind and heart. After this chorus, Amali herself renders
a song—“CHADHALI JAWANI...”, which has been taken from the

original Bidesia play, written by its founder Bhikhari 'Ihakur. 'l he helplessness in sending the message of the heroine’s inner emotion is depicted
through the nature, which in turn, depicts the dying desires and forthcoming difficult time. The Sutradhar commentry on the situation the
audience have witnessed uptil now. Amali approaches a landlord of the

village Mahadev Raif'or loan. On this point a songs in Birha style is
rendered by Chorus (Samaji) in two bits which narrates the decaying

conditions
the
and
exploited
being
labour
her
life,
Amali’s
of
conditions
of Amali’s life are compelling her to be in between the lion’s jaws, Amali

ultimately goes to Mahadev Rai, asks for a loan to fetch medicines for
her ailing mother. The narrator appears and expresses his doubts through
the medium of a song :

“KAANPE AMALI KE CHAATIA... ...”

