( 3 )
About the mating of the landlord and e)n;e;uently A n tli’s exploitation. One night, Mahadev Rai enters into the hutment and rapes Armli
in lieu of the help extended by him. The Chorus comes up and renders a

song in Shorathi-Birjabhar style —— “RAMA HO RAMA. RAMA ...... ”.
The trust of villagers in God is depicted in this song, but the trust itself
betrays.

Amali enters and renders a song in Bidesia style :—

“POORVA BAHE RAMA PACHUA BAHE LA
NAYANA SE BAHE MORA NIR RE BI’DESIA”
She analyses in the song her own life she has spent uptil now. She
addressing her far-living husband and tells him the tortures she had to
un d ergo .

The story takes a dramatic turn, when Amali takes-up the job of a
labour at the other landlord Abrar Khan’s place. Abrar Khan gives her
the employment with a promise to provide protection to her. Amali,
rneanwhite, happens to meet a stranger Batohia who is going to calcutta in
search of some employment. Amali stops him and narrates the sorrowf’ull
life she is leading. She requests the stranger that he should meet her
husband and tell him the situttion she is living in. If her husband does
not come back soon, she will commit suicide.

On the other end Abrar Khan in condition with Munshijee plans to
snatch away the lonely piece of land which belongs to Amali and where
Amali lives in a hut alongwith her mother -in-law, Munshijee is the symbol
of political powers in the village who has his contacts even with the capital
of the state. With the help of Munshijee Abrar Khan succeeds in putting
Amali’s piece of land on auction. It is proved by bribing the court that
the piece of land does not belong to Amali, rather it is a refugee property.
There is an extensive reaction to this in the entire village, but the reaction
looses its expression as the village is under the thumbs of Abrar Khan.

The Sutradhar informs about these situations through a Jhoomar :
“SUNI SABHE AAGE KE HAWAL AAYIL- GAON MAIN

BHUCHAAL, LOGAWA RAHE L A BEHAAL KANFUSIA
MAIN ...... "
There is a scene immediately after the song, which depicts the reac»
tion of the villagers, but Mahadev Rai pourse communal colour to the
event of auction. On the other hand Abrar Khan puts fuel to the fire of
communal tension and tries to wrap his act of exploitation. Both the

