In Memorium Rex Harrison
The story is told of Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree, who acted as Professor Henry
Higgins in the first production of "Pygmalion" that Shaw was in despair over his
memory. He used to say, "You’ve got to learn your lines, Sir Herbert.” And Tree
would reply “But I do know my lines. I do. I swear to God that I do know my
lines! To which Shaw responded "Oh, I don’t dispute that for a moment, Sir

Herbert, I willingly concede that you do, know, your lines. But you certainly
don’ t know mine!
Shaw would have had no cause to complain about Rex Harrison’ 5 memory by
the time "Pygmalion" was converted into "My, Fair Lady” Harrison had made
the part uniquely his own; and that included his sometimes breakneck delivery
of lines. He had that rare gift of making his acting look effortless — people felt
that he had ceased to act, and was merely projecting his own personality. Rex
Harrison himself said, in wry recollection of his early years, "We were all very
impressed by Gerald du Maurier - we thought he was being so natural. He was
of course but he was a great technician, a genius at giving that impression. Well,
we didn’t know that for our first ten years in the theatre, nobody could hear a
word we said.”

Though Rex Harrison was firmly associated with "Pygmalion" in the annals of
West End theatre, he had done a variety of other roles among them acting in
“Anna and the King of Siam,” later to gain immortality in “The King and 1”. His
career in cinema would embrace projects as diverse as ’Staircase’ where he and
Richard Burton, both considered intensely masculine actors, played the homosexual couple, and the Indo-American ’Shalimaar’ where he played the villain
opposite Dharmendra.

Perhaps one associates him all the more with Professor Higgins because he
packed so much into that one performance. There was an almost fairy-tale
quality to the way he got the part — Lee Marvin happened to see “Pygmal ion” at
the West End, after which he persuaded the director that it would be a "crimi—
nal" waste if the part went to anyone else.
Alan Jay Lerner once said that it was "terribly touching, the way Rex said rather
than sang the lyrics. It added a. very charming swing to the rhythm. “Even that
went in his favour — several women claimed that it added to his very “male”
character.

Rex Harrison had a simpler explanation to offer — to put it mildly, he couldn’ t
sing to save his life.

He is crusty masculinity as Professor Higgins didn’t prevent the right touch of
wistful; romance from showing through, more so in "My Fair lady” than in
"Pygmalion". In fact when the former reached the stage there was no mistaking
that Higgins and Eliza were due to exchange more than just carpet slippers whet
the curtain came down. And that will remain the enduring image of the man
who for many, was Professor Higgins. Stubborn, gruff, unyielding — and impishly . It was and still is a potent combination.

