NEW DELHI
SUNDAY
23-29 OCTOBER 2016

HAPPENING IN TOWN

Echoes of Regional Legaoies .
i

By AYESHA SINGH

n the most vivid and vibrant
kaleidoscopic representation of India’s plurality,
Rashtriya Sanskriti
’ Mahotsav comes as an annual
reminder of all the aspects of
our culturalidentity. You needn’t
travel long distances to experience what India is all about. The
beauty of this festival lies in
bringing the most authentic art
forms closer to you.
Every bit of the large grounds
of the Indira Gandhi National

Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) has
been captured by the sights and
sounds of tradition, echoing a
latent desire to be expressed.

A short walk through the colour-soaked surroundings brings
us to something we would otherwise not see easily in the city.
It’s called kachi gori. Wooden
horses tied to the waist, three
men and women gather applause
with their mock ﬁghts set to folk
music. In villages this is performed during marriage functions but now much less. “People don’t have the patience
anymore to sit through our stories. This could also be because
today’s generation doesn’t know
enough about our history and

ﬁnds it difficult to connect with
us,” says one of the kachi gori
artistes, Gokul Jhala from
Rajasthan. ३

. folk performers

like behroopiyas and baazigars
perform throughout the

' day. “They are also
The efforts by Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav is to bring
positive change in the lives of
these people by giving them a
platform to perform, something

difficult to find otherwise. Here,
it’s not only about the money
they get, but also about keeping
their art alive.
Handicrafts, painting, sculptures, exhibitions, tribal, classical and contemporary dance
and music, and of course food—
you’ll find it all here. Fringe-

(Clockwise from above) an artist at work. kachi gori. theese
dosa. assorted pottery, men performing Mallar Kambarn,
Gaurav Kumar Bansal, behroopia artist

known as maidaani kalakars as they perform in the
open,” says Gaurav Kumar
Bansal, the festival director:
There are two photo exhibitions that run paraller at the
venue. One is on vandalism
of places of historical importance and the other on
Simhastha Kumbh Mela.
In the evening the main
stage lights up to perform- ३
ances of different kinds, bringing forth a new sensibility.
On the ancillary stage,

where students and cultural
groups perform, you too can
showcase your talent.
There is now a visible shift in
the way the arts are Viewed, says
Bansal. “When Siddhi Goma
tribe from Gujarat, who are African in origin, perform, it attracts youngsters more than
Bollywood masala,” he says.
The festival holds enormous
potential in bringing arts, artists and audiences together, and
all that you’ve heard from us is
still just the tip of the iceberg.
0n till October 24, at
IGNCA, 11, Mansingh Road,
from 10am to 10pm.
Entry isfree.

