Slrakasp ear'e
William Shakespeare. a renowned dramatist

Tale and 'The Tempest”.

The spirit of these three

was born at Stratford in the country of Warwickshire in April 7564. His father was a merchant and

plays which we call ’Romantic Dramas' is not tense
and gloomy like the tragedies

he had two sisters and three brothers
He was
educated at the grammar school of Stratford but

A LITTLE ABOUT JUL/US CAESAR

had to leave at the age of thirteen as his father had
been arrested for debt. Before he acquired ninteen
years of age he married Ann Hathaway who was
eight years older than himself Three children
were been to them Suzannah, Homnet and Judith.

Julius Caesar was a dictator of Rome.
Since Caesar had killed Pompey for opposing him,
Brutus, Cassius, Casca and a few othet nob/es rose
against him. They decided that since Caesar was a
tyrant, they should kill him in the Senate which they

did.

Mark Antony’s (faithful to Caesar)

speech

HIS CAREER AND DEVELOPMENT
The first work that Shakespeare under took
in his career as a dramatist was to rewrite and
reform old plays and stories for his company to
present on the stage. We can make a division of
his plays into four periods. The first period extended
to 1595 and this included the comedies ’Love’s
Labour Lost’ and 'The Comedy of Errors.’ The
second period lasted from 1595 to 7607 and yielded
the historical plays of the Henry IV series and the
greater comedies. ‘As You Like lt’ and 'Twelfth
Night ' . The third period which extended till 7608
showed a change of spirit. He then turned to
tragedies dealing with the graver aspect of life.
This period produced -Ham/et', Othello', ’King lear,’
Mecbeth and Julius Caesar’. The last period known
as the Romantic stage of Shakespeare'sart, lasted
till 1612 and includes 'Cymbeline’, The Winter’s

affected the people who decided to take revenge
of Caesar's death by putting the murderer’s houses
on fire.
A war was later fought between the armies
of Octavious and Brutus. Sartre misunderstanding
led Cassius to understand that they had lost in the
war and therefore asked his slave Pindarus to kill
him. When Brutus saw that Cassius had died he
also asked Strata, his faithful friend to kill him too.
Thus Caesar’s death was revenged and his
murderers all came to a bloody end as Antony had
prophesied, but he too, in the end honoured Brutus.
since he respected Brutus's wishes which were for
the good of his country.
RlTA SH ARM A
Staff Member

