The dynamism of TAW productions,

their stylistic

experimentation and directorial subtlety were never in
doubt on either side of the proscerniurn. In fact, they
underscored the creative range of its founder-director.
Raj Bisaria.

Akaderni and the Sangeet Natak Akademi, Delhi, under
his direction.
Between 1976-80 numerous other theatre workshops
were organised and administered by Raj Bisaria in
Agra, Kanpur Nainital and Calcutta besides several in

TAW mounted on stage the very best of European and
American playwrights; its repertoire including an impressive selection from Shakespeare, Shaw, Sartre,
lonesco, Fry, Arthur Miller. Tennessee Williams, Noel
Goward; Ronald Duncan and Rattigan.
Subsequenty came the
Jellicoe. Peter Shaffer,
which Proved too radical
provincial attitudes which

later productions of Ann
Edward Albee and Orton,
in the context of existing
TAW was trying to change.

As a theatre educator as early as 1973, Raj Bisaria
suggested to the state government that he should start
a semi-professional repertory theatre in Uttar Pradesh.
Apparenter impressed by his performance, sensibility
and professionalism, in 1974 the State Government
went a few steps further and requested him to evolve
a scheme for establishing a drama school, which would
function as a full fledged academy of dramatic arts.
The Bhartendu Natya Academi : Bhartendu Academy of
Drarnetic Arts, when it was founded in 1975 with
Raj Bisaria as its founder director became the first of
its kind in the large Hindi belt of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The only other being
the Delhi based National School of Drama (NSD).
Also in 1975, the first ever theatre training workshop
in Uttar Pradesh was held for the U. P. Sangeet Natak

Lucknow.
Meanwhile, The Bhartendu Academy of Dramatic Arts
was also, through a scheme of his now running a full
two years diploma course in 1981. Its major work
relating to problems of acting. direction and stagecraft.
The training academy aimed at synthesising western
thought and sophistication in the dramatic arts with
elements of Indian acting and stage techniques.
The BADA syllabus also provides for an amalgamated
study of western dramatic literature and classical
Sanskrit and modern INDIAN drama.
At BADA. Raj Bisaria In an honorary capacity shoulders
the total responsibility of teaching acting and direction

(aspects both theoretical and practical); western drama,
from Greeke to modern time; theatre criticism and
adjudication; and aesthetics of light, sound, and set
designs.
As theatre administrator with minimal facilities. poor
funds and negligible infra-structure, he has developed
and consoiidated the viability and status of a school of
theatre begining initially as an elementary agency for
for disernination of theatrical know-how in 1976 to a
professional academy of dramatic arts in 1981.
As impressario Raj Bisaria's widening interest had led
to the introduction of l‘rshad Panjatan's excellent mine

