Louis Dance Company of USA.

Theatre training for Raj Bisaria over the years, besides
efforts on his own, included an invitation by the British

This broadening activity and involvement with the per-

Council, London, to visit U. K. and train at the British
Drama League (now the British Theatre Association)

in 1967 and next year the presentation of the Murray

forming arts also saw a classical dance performance by
Sonal Mansingh, in 1970, the debut of Om Shivpuri's
“Dishanter” group in 1972, a painting exhibition of
R. S. Blsht’s miniatures and Richard Schechner's
rnoderd American theatre, both in 1976 . and the
Annapolis Brass Quintet in 1981 —all arranged at the
initiative of Raj Bisaria's TAW, and all for the first time
in the state.
As theatre actor-director Raj B isaria took lead roles in
several of TAW English productions. But also noticiable in 1972 was a major shift in his emphasis from
modern Euro-American productions to plays in Hindi
of modern lndian playwrights : Mohan Rakesh,

as a producer, drama-instructor, and adjudicator, in
1969.
He took up the examination of the Education Board
of the United Kingdom, and was awarded the Associate
Drama Board (U. K.) Diploma in 1969.

Visits abroad in 1980 included both a trip to the United
States and the United Kingdom. Raj Bisaria was
especially invited by the U. S. Government to tour the
country and familiarise himself with the contemporary
theatre scene in America. The same year the British
Council, London, extended a second invitation for a
six-week visit to U. K. on a similar study trip.

Badal

Sirkar, Adya Rangacharya, Dhararn Vir Bharti, Shesh
and Mohit Chatterjee.
Obviously the effort at this stage was to promote a
serious bi-lingual theatre, more purposive and contextually relevant to India's social conditions - an evidence
of Raj Bisaria’s increasing maturity as a producer—

in 1986 the lndian Council For Cultural Relations,
Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India,
New Deihi, sponsored his visit as a theatre director
and expert under its Cultural Exchange Programme to
U. S. S. R., German Democratic Republic, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary.
Raj Bisaria is vitally interested as actor and theatre

director cum actor of merit.
teacher in the system of Stanislavsky and Brecht.
Stanislavsky, the great Russian director, actor and
As stage and light designer his special talent has
always been pronounced, in the use of colours and
perception of its psychology, which helped in creating
a new spectrum of innovative theatrical images and
which moved from realistic to the symbolic and at
times poetic.

teacher provides the core of Raj Bisaria's work as
director of contemporary lndian theatre.

in 1986 British council, New Delhi, provided a partial
grant for four weeks to study and observe conternporaty
British theatre in London.

