Beckett’s characters

Happy Days, sunk in sand up to her
neck, and her male counterpart crawling

Beckett is an important playwright
in the post World War H period . Through
his plays, he made a significant comment
not only on human life, but also on
the relationship between art and life
and posed a challenge to the established
indeologies. His plays variously repre—
sent the deconstructive consciousness
of this period. It is mainly his characters
३ which are the agencies of this consciou-

sness.

'

.

The consciousness of disintegration
of life is an important structural
principle of these characters. They form
binary pairs. (Humm-Clov, Nagg - Nell
in Endgame, Lucky-Pozzo, Didi-Gogo
in Waning for Godot etc.) They are
not realistic individualized characters.
They are, rather, images of the process
of disintegration on all levels of social
life, and are devoid of ideals, purity
and purpose. “They give birth astride
a ' grave , the light gleams an instant,
then it’s night once more’ ’ - This is
the principle ‘of their existential co - . .
nscious'ness. The female protagonist of

in and out of a hole; Crapp listening
to the tapes; Maddy Rooney, laughing
at her own agony imposed upon her
by cruel life - all these characters,
apparently a - human , are extremely
human.
Beckett’s characters provide insights
into his perception of reality. They pose
binary opposition of hope - frustration ,
happiness - grief, salvation - damnation ,
etc. This binary structuring is an organic
part of his perception. The characters
accept and live out without complaining
the general state of life waiting,
travelling, crawling—Without being awa re of the contradiction inherent. in it.
Hence, they repeat actions, break them
only to complete them at a later point.
Time for them is stagnant. Thus, in
Godot, everything of the first act is
repeated in the second. The three heads
in three pots in Play start repeating
themselves again. The characters cannot '
do anything else and if they do try
to bring about any change, that makes
matters only worse. For them life _ is
. like Estragon’s carrot, becoming worse
as he eats it. " Beckett’s characters
essentially represent this kind of vision

of reality.

_
Dr. Maya Pandl't

