giggles?»aromas
(74¢ cwe bow beéore

the €Bard €0day....

THIS is a proud moment in the life of Kannada-Bharati.

At an age at

which most similar organisations will yet be toddling, Kannada-

Bharati has stood up its full height like a man and is acting as one.
Though barely eighteen months old, it has come a long distance and lined
up today with its sister organisations everywhere to bow before William
Shakespeare, that Titan among world-poets, and pay its humble homage
to his memory on his quater-centenary, on behalf of the Kannada people
and in a manner uniquely its own. Elsewhere in this souvenir are
detailed its Quater-centenary Celebrations. To describe the event in terms
of a typically Kannada image, it is like the endearing sight of a tiny tot
prostrating before the 57-f'eet tall monolith of Gornatesvara at Sravana
Belgola in Mysore and offering its obeisance in all sincerity and faith.
In Kannada-Bharati’s heart today, there is the same sense of awe, the
same feeling of joy and thrill as; in the child of the image. Let such

moments return again and again.

A year and a half ago, a dozen Kannada young men of the Capital,
that
all culturally awake, of modest talents and ﬁred by similar aspirations
the
to
culture
and
ge
langua
they should make available the fruits of their
got
they
if
peOple of Delhi, felt that they could serve their purpose better
was the
together and joined hands as an organisation, and the result
ati
a-Bhar
Kannad
founding of Kannada-Bharati- In spite of heavy odds,
quite
organised
has been doing its mite in that direction ever since- It has
er and, with
togeth
Delhi
in
a few functions and brought the Kannadigas
Publications Wing
them, the people of other languages. It has started a
T.P. Kailasam and the
of its own and, besides two souvenirs, one on

an one-act play in
other to mark the Spring of 1964, it has brought out
one of the major
Kannada as its maiden publication. Drama being
the Kannada-Bharati
vehicles of culture and the organisation’s ﬁrst loves,
ﬁll the dearth in that
has decided to follow it up with a series of plays, to
Kannada printing has
field. Largely due to Kannada-Bharati’s efforts,
mplated to expand
conte
also
now become a reality in the Capital. It has

