Kittoo says. “Heaven was dominant". Provi—

dence is ever-present in these plays—directing
in a mysterious manner the course of events.
Though in Hamlet this feeling is most clearly
expressed, even in the other tragedies, there

hovers over them the “shadow” of this mysterious force, subtly governing the affairs of
men.
We are familiar in our literature with the
idea of life being kurukshetra—or a battleﬁeld
where good and evil are constantly at war.

The issue for which the struggle is waged is
dharma. The victory of dharma is achieved
through suffering and self-knowledge. In other
words, life is a pilgrimage, whose goal is self-

knowledge. One of the famous Upam‘shats
says that liberation is possible only to those
who know themselves. Absence of this
knowledge results in blindness (of the spirit)
and misjudgment. In Shakespeare’s tragedies,
the heroes are not wicked men. Indeed many
of them are supremely noble. But they are
unable to cope with the problems that beset
them. This inability whether it arises from
jealousy, ambition, lust, greed, or any other

corruption and purposes mistook", is caught
up in a complicated web of cunning, intrigue,
treachery and crime, until at the precious ﬁnal
moment the veil of falseness which exhausted
and unnerved him is rent, and he sees himself
and attains that rarest of all God’s gifts, selfknowledge. and through that the peace and
freedom for which he had struggled vainly in
life .
The other tragedies are also signiﬁcant
from this point of View. Othello is undoubtedly the most painful of them. Even here,
amidst the wreckage of love, while innocent
Desdemona lies strangled in her bed and
Othello’s heart is wrung with the shock of
truth, we see the beauty and invincibility of the
human spirit. Othello being wrought and
perplexed in the extreme, standing dazed at the
tragic loading of the bed, has these few tremendous moments of self-knowledge when he
discovers the hideous truth of what he had
done.

On the brink of dissolution, the tor-

tured Othello knows the reality, the ultimate

makes them liable to error and misjudgment.
They suﬁer and are destroyed. Life is thus a

knowledge of things which releases him from
the prison of suspicion and misjudgment. I
have never read the bed-chamber scene to my
students without being acutely aware of the
soft ripples of pathos in the atmosphere.

ceaseless struggle.

weakness, inhibits their inner freedom

and

The tragic heroes achieve

Whatever Aristotle meant by his phrase “pur-

self-knowledge through suﬁ‘ering before they
die. These last moments in the lives of Shakespeare’s heroes are of supreme signiﬁcance.
They are moments of a tremendous illumination. The web of illusions is shattered and
man faces the truth courageously and unﬂinchingly before the ﬁnal dissolution. Hamlet
discovers this secret—after passing through a

gation of the emotions” it is clear that a powerful tragedy can and does cleanse the spirit,
revealing to us the supreme glory of life even
while it ﬁlls the tragic world with evil in all its
ugly forms. Othello is also memorable for the
ﬁgure of Iago whose sinister shadow darkens

long-drawn-out mental agony and paralysis of

cynicism and distrust of their fellow-men arise

will.

from a sense of “unfulﬁlment”.

He becomes spiritually sterile—his soul

ﬁlled with dark pessimism, so that this “goodly
frame, the earth” becomes to him “a sterile
promontory”. He is vanquished by “rank

the entire world of the play. Today, we regard
such evil men as psychological perverts.

Their

But Iago is

something more than a cynic. He is an utterly
A study of his character will
helpus in many ways. A frustrated individual,

wicked man.

