it is one of the most concentrated of his trage—
dies. The story is clear and follows more or
less a precise pattern—temptation, c r i me ,
punishment, and self-realisation.
The problems posed by these great tragedies
are of perennial interest. This is apart from
their rich poetry, their revealation of Shakespeare’s own inner life and the light they throw
on many contemporary issues. These problems
have always interested us in India. Hence I
ﬁrmly believe that Shakespeare will continue
to be a very popular writer in this country.
We are familiar with many of these problems—
Is man a free agent in this complicated drama
of life ? What is the ultimate issue of this
cosmic drama?

Is evil an irretrievable and

again that man’s tenure on earth is precious;
and says how slippery are often the ways of
the world, how man is capable of the utmost
malice and evil, how uncertain and brittle are
our illusions, so that at any moment by the
operation of fate, chance accident or error,

our calculations can be completely upset, and
the world we have apparently built up will go
to pieces before our very eyes. Yet, there is
no pessimism in these tragedies, for Shakespeare knew that life is an adventure, full of

possibilities both for good and evil.

He ﬁrmly

believed that the ‘heroic’ in man can challenge
evil and even overcome it, for if man can

destroy, he can also create. The human spirit
can blind itself with illusions, and yet see with

ﬁnal phenomenon ? Why is there so much
undeserved suffering in life ? These and other

clarity the Truth-

Man can sink in despair

questions which arise from these plays have a
special appeal to us. Not that ShakeSpeare

He can hate, destroy, pervert

and yet emerge triumphant from the ordeal.
and

distort

no unmistakable terms what these issues mean

things, but he has also the capacity to remould
himself and the world through love, tenderness, sacriﬁce and forgiveness. Shakespeare
who wrote Hamlet knew the bafﬂements of the

and how they can either ennoble or corrupt

human soul, of our littleness and of our evil.

life. For Shakespeare was essentially a lover
of life, insisting that life is a sort of a “moving

But as the great tragedy unmistakably proclaims, man’s spirit can face and Challenge the

forward” and to master life’s problems he
knew no other remedy than truth and courage

worst of fate, of accident, and change, and yet

gives any speciﬁc answers to these questions.
He leaves the verdict open. Yet he tells us in

remain in the end unvanquished, though for a
time overcome. Is it any wonder that our educated people still love and read these great plays ?

—whatever be the calamities or dangers that
beset us.

That is why he tells us again and

l0

