‘ ‘Shaheope arige

(Ham 6: oIzara ' ’

As a lasting homage to this Poet of Poets,
Kannada-Bharati offers a Homage Volume in Kannada.
' ‘HE ﬁnest monument to a poet is his own
works and the best tribute that his lovers
and admirers can pay to him is to read them.

genius. To go with the production of Macbeth
is this Souvenir on hand. It is got up as an
aid to the study and understanding ofMacbet/z,

Bronzes and marbles do not convey the poet.

by giving useful ar cles and a discriminating

What is more, they tarnish or crack, and dis-

selection of criticism in every signiﬁcant aspect
of the play by critics through the centuries. It
will help you to remember what you will see
on the stage today and ponder over the beauties

integrate into

dust with the passage of time,

while the written or the spoken word will live
on.

This is as much true of Shakespeare as

of any other poet in history.

As Ben Jonson,

a contemporary of Shakespeare and a poet in
his own right, has aptly remarked while cornmenting on the Droeshout portrait of the Bard,
‘fReader, look not on his face, but his book”.

Earlier this year, when Kannada-Bharati
decided to celebrate the Quater-centenary of the
Poet and pay its homage to the Master on
behalf of the Kannadigas here and everywhere
it had Ben Jonson’s advice very much in mind.
And true to it, it drew up a comprehensive
four-point programme, each of which was
directed towards popularising the Poet’s works
among the Kannadigas, to make them better
known and better read.
The ﬁrst of them is what you will see on
the stage today—ShakeSpeare’s Macbeth in
Kannada by Dr. D. V. Gundappa. Macbeth,
as is well-known, ranks as one amongst halfa-dozen great dramas of Shakespeare, written
at the apex of his creative career. The translation, a match to the original, is still the most
satisfying of all——some sixty or more—translations of ShakeSpeare’s works in Kannada so
far. Thus in Macbeth today one is introduced
broadly into the very essence of Shakespeare’s

of the play at leisure.

Normally this is the point where most
organisations would stop and rest their oars——
Production of a Play and a Souvenir- But
Kannada-Bharati, ambitious as it is and made

of sterner stuff too, could not think of being
content just with these. It wanted its homage
to be more lasting, more enduring, and its fruits
to reach every Kannadiga wherever he be. And
it has, therefore, planned a Quater-centenary
Homage

Volume

in

Kannada,

entitled

“SHAKESPEARIGE NAMASKARA”, which
is now under print.

The Volume will

be

in Royal Octavo size (6%” by 9%”) and consist

of some 300-350 pages in print. It is principally
intended to serve as a useful handbook for the
beneﬁt of those Kannadigas who have not had
the good fortune of any deep initiation into
English studies and to whom Shakespeare in the
original has, therefore, remained a closed book.
The Volume is divided into four sections :
The ﬁrst carries a detailed introduction
to the Poet, his life, works and achievement.

The second consists ofabout 20 critical
articles covering various aspects of the
Poet’s works.

1l

