The third section is of translations
from the Poet’s works——poems, sonnets,

ramiah, S.V. Ranganna, P.T. Narasimhachar,
V. K. Gokak, Adya Rangacharya, R. S.

songs, scenes and passages from the plays.
An attempt has been made in this section

Mugali, D.S. Karki, T. N Sreekantaiya, K. V.
ri,
Raghavachar, A .N. Moorthy Rao, N. Kastu

to present translations, not only fresh but
new, of poems and from plays that have
been left unattempted in Modern Kannada,
and the selections are judicious.
The last section deals with every play of
Shakespeare individually, records the biblio-

M.V. Seetha Ramiah, K.S. Narasimha Swamy,
Gopalakrishna Adiga, Ramachandra Sharma,
Channavira Kanavi, G. S. Sivarudrappa, S.
Prabhu Shankara, B.H. Sreedhara, G .V. Chittal,

L. S. Seshagiri Rao, S Ananta Narayana, K.
Narasirnha M urthy, M. Rama Rao, G. Varada-

sources, gives an act-wise digest of the plays

raja Rao, D. Javare Gowda, G. Venkatasubbaiah, T.S. Shama Rao, Gourish Kaikini, H.Y.
Sharada Prasad, CH. Prahlad Rao, H.B.

with a short critical appreciation.

Kulkarni, Santinatha Desai, M.L.S- Sastry, H.S.

graphical details such as the dates of com-

position and publication, etc., traces the

Thus, read from end to

end, the

Volume

will present to the readers a true portrait of
Shakespeare,

as

Poet

and

Dramatist

of

This is not all.

unequalled excellence.

Over ﬁfty writers and poets of front-rank,
both young and

articles and

old, have contributed their

translations

Patil, Narayana Sangama, K. V. Subbanna,
Vasant Kavali, B.A. Sanadi, S.R. Nadig,
Chandrasekhara Patil, Giraddi and others.

to

the

Volume.

The contributors make such an array of rare

distinction that to have brought them on a
common platform and won their sympathy and
willing cooperation can in itself be a matter of

pride to any literary organisation in Kannada.
They are : Sarvasri D. V. Gundappa, Masti

Venkatesa Iyengar, D. R. Bendre, V. Sita-

There is still one more

feather, most colourful of all, in the Volume.

It is profusely illustrated with sketches and
tail-pieces by Sri R. S. Naidu, the distinguished
artist from Mysore. He has also contributed
a unique portrait of the Bard for the cover.
Efforts are being made to complete the
printing and release it before the close of the
Quater-centenary year, when the last of the

four-point programme, an exhibition of Shakespeareana in Kannada, will also be held.

"g in ।मक्रितायष्टि can now be done at your
doc r-ste ps . To our growing family of language-printing, the Kannada
Wing is the latest addition. Whether it is a slender book of stories
for children or a fat philosophic tome for the more mature, we are
equipped to undertake any printing job at competitive rates and
s at i sfy y o u . Think of us when you think of getting your next Kannada
work printed, and, for that matter, your English and Hindi works too.

THE FRINTEMAN
I 8 A / | l , D O R l W A LAN.

12

ROHTAK

ROAD,

NEW

DELHI-5

