Select griticiomo on Crnacbeth
{he (witcheo
The weird Sisters are as true a creation of

Shakespeare’s as his Ariel and Caliban,—fates,
furies and materializing witches being the
elements. They are wholly different from any
representation of Witches in the contemporary

mirror ! And how strictly true to nature it is,
that Banquo, and not Macbeth himself, directs
our notice to the effect produced on Macbeth’s
mind, rendered temptible by previous dalliance

of the fancy with ambitious thoughts:

writers, and yet presented a sufﬁcient external

Good Sir, why do you start; and seem

resemblance to the creatures ofvulgar prejudice
to act immediately on the audience. Their
character consists in the imaginative disconnected from the good; they are the shadowy
obscure and fearfully anomalous of physical

to fear
Things that do sound so fair ?

nature, the lawless of human nature,—elementtal avengers without sex or kin :
Fair is foul, and foul is fair :

Hover thro’ the fog and ﬁlthy air .... ..
The true reason for the ﬁrst appearance of
the Witches is to strike the key-note of the
character of the whole drama, as is proved by

their reappearance in the third scene, after such
an order of the king’s as establishes their
supernatural power of information. I say information,——afor so it only is as to Glamis and
Cawdor : the ‘king hereafter’ was still contin-

And then, again, still unintroitive, addresses
the Witches : …
I’ the name of truth,

Are ye fantastical, or that indeed
Which outwardly ye show ?
Banquo’s questions are those of natural
curiosity,—such as a girl would put after hearing
a gipsy tell her schoolfellow’s fortune;—all
perfectly general, rather planless. But Macbeth,

lost in thought, raises himself to speech only
by the Witches being about to depart :—
Stay, you

imperfect

speakers, tell

me

more :—and all that follows is reasoning on a
problem already discussed in his mind,—on a
hope which he welcomes, and the doubts concerning the attainment of which he wishes to

gent,——-still in Macbeth’s moral will; although,

have cleared up.

if he should yield to the temptation, and thus
forfeit his free agency, the link of cause and
effect morepliysiro would then commence. I
need not say, that the general idea is all that
can be required from the poet,——not a scholastic logical consistency in all the parts so as to
meet metaphysical objectors. But 0 ! how
truly Shakespearian is the opening of Macbeth’s character given in the unpossessedness
of Banquo’s mi nd , wholly present to the
present o bje c t , —a n unsullied, unscariﬁed

Compare his eagerness,—

the keen eye with which he has pursued the
Witches’ evanishing—
Speak, I charge you !
. with the easily satisﬁed mind of the self-

uninterested. Banquo :—'
The earth hath bubbles, as the water
has,

And these are of them. Whither
they vanish’d?
and then Macbeth’s earnest reply,—

13

a re

