Cline“: bath Cpro clac tion
U. P RA B H A K A R R A0

An apologia for witches
We know from legends and beliefs that
Ghosts emerge out of thin air and vanish into
thin air. But on the Stage ? All of us know
that they come from behind the side wings and
make their way towards the side wings under
a beautifully lit misty atmosphere. Should
we have such a

mechanisation of a ghost

which is for all practical purposes ethereal,
and for all times, a conception of the mind
that is breaking the thin line between sanity
and insanity at that particular momentary
obsession of imaginary feelings of an individual or a character on the stage? So also is the

human minds under different environments,

and in varying situations, reaching the sublime
from “Hevene’s Cherubins, Hors’d upon the
sightless couriers of the air”. It is no wonder
if most of his audiences lost the significance,
the moral, the message of Macbeth to posterity
while gloating over the dismissal of~ a tyrant,

and remembered only the nerve-wrecking glide
of Banquo’s ghost and the bewitching dance of
the witches around the burning cauldron.
While, in just two simple dialogues, Shakes-

peare

dismisses

the very existence of the

witches in Macbeth, he takes their help only

to build up the network of thoughts within

characters, ingeniously creates
case of an actor under a make-believe picture ' the minds “of his
his own imagination searching
of a King. But the diﬁerence lies in the raw a world of
of life, a life which is as pure
ﬂesh and blood that is throbbing with life in after the truth
and innocent as a “naked new born babe”the portrayal of a character, i.e., a King. Thus
of greed, ambition andl love of
the King becomes real while the ghosts and The suggestion
imported through the spirits, he carries
spirits remain ethereal, however much one may power
forward to a glorious conclusion in
try to infuse into them the human ingredients. them
a walking shadow; a poor player, that
Four Hundred Years have slipped by after “Life’s but
and frets his hour upon the stage. And
the passing away of ShakeSpeare, and it is struts
an
then is heard no more; it is a tale told by
time we noticed the real signiﬁcance and
idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying
purpose for which these supernatural elements
nothing.” Between the suggestion and the
were brought in by the poet to play with
of
message, what is narrated is the battle
direct concern in the lives of human beings.
,
piercing thoughts and murderous deeds
All those who believe in the existence of God
the
of
axe
are yielding inch by inch under the
know that he is invisible. Ghosts we say
_ of omniscient Nature, revealing only the right.
invisible too. Both we say are capable
Thus tonight, you will see no witches, but
revealing to select Minds only. Thus, is it not
als
see how the minds of two worthy Gener
proper for us to accept that most of these
will see
human react to an external suggestion. You
conceptions are mere processes of
mind
the
the neither ghosts nor apparitions but
.minds—good and bad ? Shakespeare had
(Continued on page 28)
ent of
supreme vision to see the developm

15

