(Continued from Page I4)

Norsemen to their witches, all power over
destructive tempest.
I conjure you, by that which you profess,—
Howe’er you come to know it,—answer me;

Though you untie the winds and let them
ﬁght
Against the churches ; though the yesty
waves
Confound and swallow navigation up ;

Though bladed corn be lodg’d and trees
blown down ;

Though castles topple on their warder’s
heads;

Though palaces and pyramids do slope
Their heads to their foundations ; though
the treasure
Of Nature’s germens tumble all together,

Even till destruction sicken ; answer rue

in dreadful gaiety of destruction.
But the witches are much more than
creatures who have power over nature: They
have inﬂuence also on the soul, but only on
the soul that has admitted evil to dwell in it.
When the soil is tainted their poisonous seeds
take root. When a man has already sheltered
a temptation they come to him charged with
already
fresh temptation, and hurry the
cherished evil into outward execution of it.
They master the thoughts of Macbeth because
they are in tune with them. They have no
inﬂuence on Banquo, who is innocent of
wrong. Nowhere in Shakespeare is a more
subtle delineation of the effect of suggested
evil on two souls, one in sympathy with evil,
the other not, than there is in the scene between

Macbeth and Banquo after the disappearance
of the Witches.
From Stopford Brooke, 0n Ten Plays of

To what I ask you.

These are their werks and ways in nature,

Shakespeare (l9 19)

Eh e ‘ CUe i l3cl ea:4 तो uo icn of CWZotive’ in ‘crnacbeth'
The interest in the tragedy of Macbeth is
the perpetration of crime by a man whose
magniﬁcient qualities ofmind, extreme courage,
and poetic imagination, raise the villainies
above common meanness, and give occasion
for a superhuman conﬂict of images and
ideas. Now though critics have explained

Macbeth’s ambition had preconceived

that Macbeth lived

confuse. Judging from the text, he does not

leagued against him : the difﬁculty lies in the
unknown quantin of the ﬁrst motive, his
predisposition ; which, if it be allowed to be
only in the exact balance required for these
other agencies to carry it, is still contradictory
to the picture of nobility impressed on us by
Shakespeare, and essential to his drama. The
case may be put baldly thus: it would not
be untrue to the facts as presented by Shakespeare, to precede the drama with a scene in

wish us to be clearly determined as to whether

which Macbeth and Lady Macbeth should in

in a world of material

considerations, while his morality was merely
imaginative, yet the commonsense objection
that such a man would not have committed
such actions as strong and must be met. How,
then, does Shakespeare meet it?

If he had

had any plain psychological conception, we
should expect the drama to reveal it ; but his
'method here is not so much to reveal as to

and

decided on the murder of Duncan ; or whether

the idea was chieﬂy
supernatural devilry
mainly urged to it
infected and led by

imposed upon him by a
; or whether he was
by his wife, and was
her. We may combine

the two latter motives, and see hell and home

20

