Machiavellian composure deliberate together
upon the murder of Duncan ; but plainly such
a scene would destroy the drama.

Now this veiled confusion of motive is so
well managed that it must be recognized as a
device intended to escape observation. That
the main conception of the play is magniﬁcent
is amply proved by the effects obtained ; but
they are nonetheless procured by a deception,
a liberty of treatment or a ‘dishonesty’, which
is purposely blurred . The naturalness is
merely this, that in nature we cannot weigh
or know all the motives or springs of action,

and therefore we are not shocked at not being
able to understand Macbeth ; the diﬁiculty
indeed is one main source of our pleasure,
and is intended to be so : but this is not nature,

surprise in a worthy hero he has sometimes
had recourse to devices which are intended
to baulk analysis. In order to attain the
surprises, he will risk, or even sacriﬁce, the
logical and consistent; and as such a ﬂaw, if
it were perceived, must ruin the interest, he is

ready with abundant means to obscure the
inconsistency. It seems to me that one
method was to take advantage of uncertainty

or confusion in motives or matters of fact lying
partly or wholly outside the drama, which,
if they were clearly conceived as determined
one way or another, would conﬁne the action
within lesser lines.

Some matter which, as it

appears to us, might have happened as well
one way as another, is purposely left halfdetermined; we are let to suppose that it

in the sense of being susceptible of the same
analysis as that by which the assumptions of
science would investigate nature.
The interest in a Shakespearean tragedy lies
chieﬂy in the hero’s conduct, and is greater as
his conduct surprises while it satisﬁes : and
from the constitution of things it is ditﬁcult
to imagine a character or personality whose
actions shall be at once consistent and surprising. The extreme of virtue may surprise ;
but Shakespeare never chose to depict men
of whom the world was not worthy. Then
there is the extreme of vice ; and Shakespeare

happened one way, and if we are disturbed by

has surprised us with this in Iago and others ;

accompanies the presentation of action.

conduct inconsistent with that surmise, we
can shift our surmise, but only to be encoun-

tered by actions which drive us back upon
it, or suggest another explanation.
The
pleasure attending our surprise gratiﬁes us,
and our critical faculty is quieted by the reﬂection that there must be a solution, and

that it is natural enough that we should not
hit upon it at once. This attitude of mind is
further assured by the convincing verisimilituda
and richness of Shakespeare’s detail, as well
as

and he has surprised us, successfully or not,

with monstrous forms of special qualities in
Timon and in Coriolanus :

by

the

appearance of necessity which

From Robert Bridges, The Inﬂuence of the

Audience on Shakespeare’s Drama (I927).

but to sustain

@n the SKI/rocking at the gate in ‘CWZacbeth'
From my boyish days I had always felt a great
per-plexity on one point in Macbeth. It was
this : the knocking at the gate, which succeeds
to the murder of Duncan,

account.

The effect was, that it reﬂected back .

produced to my

upon the murder a peculiar awfulness and a
depth of solemnity ; yet, however obstinater 1
endeavoured with my understanding to compre-

could

hend this, for many years I never could see

feelings an effect for which I never

21

