he should hear the death-like stillness broken

why it should produce such an effectIn Macbeth, for the sake of gratifying his
own enormous and teeming faculty of creation,
Shakespeare has introduced two murderers :

ably discriminated : but, though in Macbeth

up by the sound of wheels rattling away from
ithe scene, and making known that the trans
tory vision was dissolved, he will be aware that
at no moment was his sense of the complete
suspension and pause in ordinary human

the strife of mind is greater than in his wife,

concerns so full and affecting,

and, as usual in his hands, they are remark-

at

that

moment when the suspension ceases, and the
goings-on of human life are suddenly resumed.
All action in any direction is best expounded,
measured, and made apprehensible, by reaction.
Now apply this to the case in Macbeth. Here,

the tiger spirit not so awake, and his feelings
caught chieﬂy by contagion from her,—yet, as
both were ﬁnally involved in the guilt of
murder, the murderous mind of necessity is
ﬁnally to be presumed in both. This was to
be expressed ; and on its own account, as well
as to make it a more proportionable antagonist
to the unoifending nature of their victim, ‘the
gracious Duncan’, and adequately to expound
‘the deep damnation of his taking off", this
was to be expressed with peculiar energy. We

as I have said, the retiring of the human heart,

and the entrance of the ﬁendish heart was to
be

expressed

and

made

sensible.

Another

world has stept in ; and the murderers are
taken out of the region of human things,
human purposes, human desires. They are
transﬁgured :

were to be made to feel that the human nature,
i.e., the divine nature of love and mercy, spread

Lady Macbeth is "unsexed’ ;

Macbeth has forgot that he was born of
woman ; both are conformed to the image of
devils; and the world of devils is suddenly
revealed. But how shall this be conveyed and
made palpable P In order that a new world
may step in, this world must for a time disappear. The murderers, and the murder must
be insulated—cut off by an immeasurable gulf

_ through the hearts of all creatures, and seldom
utterly withdrawn from man—was gone, vanished, extinct ; and

as

that the ﬁendish nature had

taken its place. And, as this effect is marvellously accomplished in the dialogues and soliloquies themselves, so it is ﬁnally consummated
by the expedient under consideration ; and it is
to this that I now solicit the reader’s attention.
If the reader has ever witnessed a wife, daughter, or sister in a fainting ﬁt, he may chance
to have observed that the most aﬁ‘ecting
moment in such a spectacle is that in which a
sigh and a stirring announce the recommencement of suspended life. Or, if the reader has

from the ordinary tide and succession of human

affairs—locked up and sequestered in some
deep recess ; we must be made sensible that
the world of ordinary life is suddenly arrested
——1aid asleep—tranced — racked into a dread
armistice ; time must be annihilated ; relation
to things without abolished ; and all must pass

ever been present in a vast metropolis, on the

day when some great national idol was carried
in funeral pomp to his grave, and, chancing to
walk near the course through which it passed,
३ has felt powerfully in the silence and desertion
of the streets, and in the stagnation of ordinary

self-withdraWn into a deep syncope and suspension of earthly passion. Hence it is, that when
the deed is done, when the work of darkness

is perfect, then the world of darkness passes
away. like a pageantry in the clouds: the
knocking at the gate is heard ; and it makes

business, the deep interest which at the moment

known audibly that the reaction has commen-

was possessing the heart of man—ifall at once

ced ; the human has made its reﬂux upon the

22

