huddling together of ﬁerce extremes, a war of
opposite natures which of them shall destroy
the other. There is nothing but what has a
violent end or violent beginnings. The lights
and shades are laid on with a determined
hand; the transitions from triumph to despair,
from the height of terror to the repose of
death, are sudden and startling; every passion
brings in its fellow—contrary, and the thoughts
pitch and jostle against each other as in the
dark. The whole play is an unruly chaos of
strange and forbidden things, where the ground
rocks under our feet. Shakespeare’s genius
here took its full swing, and trod upon the

farthest bounds of nature and passion. This
circumstance will account for the abruptness
and violent antitheses of the style, the throes
and labour which run through the expression,
and from defects will turn them into beauties.
‘So fair and foul a day I have not seen’, etc.
‘Such welcome and unwelcome news together.’
‘Men’s lives are like the ﬂowers in their caps,
dying or ere they sicken.’ ‘Look like the innocent ﬂower, but be the serpent under it.’
The scene before the castle-gate follows the
appearance of the Witches on the heath, and
is followed by a mid-night murder. Duncan is

and all we thirst’, and when his ghost appears,cries out, ‘Avaunt and quit my sight’, and
being gone, he is ‘himself again’. Macbeth
resolves to get rid of Macduﬂ, that ‘he may
sleep in spite of thunder’; and cheers his wife
on the doubtful intelligence of Banquo’s
taking-off with the encouragement—Then be
thou jocund : ere the bat has ﬂown his Cloistered ﬂight; ere to black He/eate’s summons the
shard-born beetle has rung night’s yawning
peal, there shall be done—a deed of dreadful
note.’ In Lady Macbeth’s speech, ‘Had he not

resembled my father as he slept, I had done’t,
there is murder and ﬁlial piety together; and
in urging him to fulﬁl his vengeance against
the defenceless king, her thoughts spare the
blood neither of infants nor old age. The
description of the Witches is full of the same
contradictory principle; they ‘rejoice when
good kings bleed’, they are neither of the
earth nor the air, but both; ‘they should be
women, but their beards forbid’; they take all

the pains possible to lead Macbeth on to the
height of his ambition, only to betray him
‘in deeper consequence’, and after shewing
him all the pomp of their art, discover their
malignant delight in his disappointed hopes,

cut oﬂ“ betimes by treason leagued with witch-

by that bitter taunt, ‘Why stands Macbeth

craft, and Macduﬂ" is ripped untimely from
his mother’s womb to avenge his death.
Macbeth after the death of Banquo, wishes
for his presence in extravagant terms, ‘To him

thus amazedly ?’
From Hazlitt, Characters of Shakespeare’s
Plays (1817).

{he eharacter ०3 ("Zacbeth
There is in Macbeth one marked peculiarity,
the true apprehension of which is the key to
Shakespeare’s conception. This bold ambitious
man ofaction has, within certain limits, the
imagination of a poet,—an imagination on the
one hand extremely sensitive to impressions

tive of a violent disturbance both of mind and
body. Through it he is kept in contact with
supernatural impressions and is liable to
supernatural fears. And through it, especially,
come to him the intimations of conscience and
honour. Macbeth’s better nature—to put the
matter for clearness’ sake too broadly~—-

of a certain kind, and, on the other, produc-

24

