instead of speaking to him in the overt language of moral ideas, commands, and prohibitions, incorporates itself in images which
alarm and horrif'y.

His imagination is thus

the best of him, something usually deeper and

that is, moves chieﬂy among considerations of
outward success and failure, while his inner
being is convulsed by conscience. And his
inability to understand himself is repeated and
exaggerated in

the interpretations of actors

higher than his conscious thoughts; and if he

and critics, who represent him as a coward,

had obeyed it he would have been safe. But
his wife quite rnisunderstands it, and he
himself understands it only in part. The
terrifying images which deter him from crime

cold-blooded, calculating, and pitiless, who
shrinks from crime simply because it is
dangerous, and suffers afterwards simply
ecause he is not safe. In reality his courage
is frightful. He strides from crime to crime,
though his soul never ceases to bar his advance

and follow its commission, and which are

really the protest of his deepest self, seem to
his wife the creations of mere nervous fear,
and are sometimes referred by himself to the
dread of vengeance or the restlessness of
insecurity. His conscious or reﬂective mind,

with shapes of terror, or to clarnour in his

ears that he is murdering his peace and casting
away his ‘eternal jewel’.
From Bradley, Shakespearean Tragedy (1904).

57!“; eharacter ०3 gady ("lacbeth
In the opening Act at least, Lady Macbeth is
the most commanding and perhaps the most
awe-inspiring ﬁgure that Shakespeare drew.
Sharing, as we have seen, certain traits with
her husband, she is at once clearly distinguished from him by an inﬂexibility of will, which
appears to hold imagination, feeling, and

inﬁnite praise, without a syllable on these
subjects or a word of affection, she goes
straight to her purpose and permits him to
speak of nothing else. She takes the superior
position and assumes the direction of aﬂairs,—~
appears to assume it even more than she really

conscience completely in check.

him by picturing the deed as heroic, ‘this
night’s great business,’ or ‘our great quell,’ while
she ignores its cruelty and faithlessness. She
bears down his faint resistance by presenting
him with a prepared scheme which may
remove from him the terror and danger of
deliberation. She rouses him with a taunt no

To her the

prophecy of things that will be, becomes
instantaneously the determination that they
shall be:—
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor ; and

shalt be
What thou art promised.
She knows her husband’s weakness, how he

scruples ‘to catch the nearest way’ to the
object he desires; and she sets herself without
a trace of doubt or conﬂict to counteract this
weakness. To her there is no separation
between will and deed ; and, as the deed falls

in part to her, she is sure it will be done.
On the moment of Macbeth’s rejoining her,
after braving inﬁnite dangers and winning

can, that she may spur him on. She anirnates

man can bear, and least of all a soldier,—the

word ‘coward’.
for her.

She appeals even to his love

Her reasonings

are mere sophisms ;

they could persuade no man. It is by personal
appeals, through the admiration she extorts
from him and through sheer force of will, that
she irnpels him to the deed. Her eyes are
ﬁxed upon the crown and the means to it ; she
does not attend to the consequences. Her plan
25

