of laying the guilt upon thcchamberlains is
invented on the spur of the moment, and
simply to satisfy her husband. Her true mind
is heard in the ringing cry with which she
answers his questions, ‘Will it not be received

.... ..that they have done'it ?’
Who dares receive it other ?
And this is repeated in the sleep-walking
scene : ‘What need we fear who knows it,
when none can call our power to account ?’
Her passionate courage sweeps him oﬁ" his feet.
His decision is taken in a moment of enthusiasm .
And even when passion has quite died away
her will remains supreme. In presence of over-

scene and the banquet scene, her self-control is
perfect. When the truth of what she has done
dawns on her, no word of complaint, scarcely
a word of her own suffering, not a single word
of her own as apart from his, escapes her when
others are by. Site helps him, but never asks
his help. She leans on nothing but herself.
And from the beginning to the end—though she
makes once or twice a slip in acting her part—
her will never fails her. Its grasp upon her nature
may destroy her, but it is never relaxed. We
are sure that she never betrayed her husband or
herself by a word or even a look, save in sleep.
However appalling she may be. she is sublime.
From Bradley, Shakespearean Tragedy ( l 904).

whelming horror and danger, in the murder

{he capacity for good in ("zacbeth and gady ("Zacbeth
Macbeth is by its «comparative simplicity one
of the most impressive and instructive. In none
is it so easy to discern the relation between our
moral and our dramatic or artistic sympathies

and judgements, to realize how the moral
point of view is not superseded by the dramatic but absorbed and transcended. Judged
from the moral point of view, as our reason

compels us to judge him, a point of view from
which Macbeth never is able to emanicipate
himself, like Iago or Richard III, judged from
the point of view of members of a society
which is seeking a common good, Macbeth is
condemned; we contemplate his fate with a
moral approval which we certainly do not feel
in the case of Othello or Lear. Now moral

approval and disapproval is a factor, an
element, in the pleasure we derive from tragedy.
If with some modern novelists we supersede the
will altogether, if we represent our hero as
being and feeling himself to be a puppet in the

hands of Fate, we weaken the tragic effect. The
last'drop of: bitterness in the cup of the tragic
26

hero is to realize that his own folly or guilt
has brought about his destruction , . . . . . ‘then
all strikes deadly inward and suffocateth.’
From both the points of view from which
we contemplate a tragic event, the moral culpability, the ‘error’ of the .hero counts for
much. In as far as we identify ourselves by
sympathy with the hero, as in all good tragedy
we do and must, our suffering, our pity and
fear, is heightened. And on the other hand,
in so far as we look on him from without, as

spectators, but as spectators interested in that
moral law, that common good with which he

is, to a greater or less degree, in conﬂict, the
consideration of guilt determines our greater
or less approval of the fate that overtakes him .

the satisfaction of our sense of justice.

Now

in some cases the latter point of view obscures

the first altogether, insomuch that Aristotle
pronounces the overthrow of a bad man to be

no tragedy at all. And in some Elizabethan
tragedies, inﬂuenced by the Senecan conception
of tragedy as a picture of crime and the

