Nemesis which overtakes it, our sympathies are
so alienated from the hero of the tragedy that
his destruction appeals to little more than our
approval of the justice of his fate. But the
imagination of a great poet transcends such
limitations. We recognize the guilt of Macbeth
the radical error of his will, but we recognize
also how frail a thing the human will is, beset
by passion and temptation and illusion. We
see evil born of the very capacity for good.
There is something in Macbeth and Lady
Macbeth, even in their errors, that bespeaks
greatness of soul more clearly than the hum-

Macbeth is a criminal, Bunyan a saint——but
they are men of the same imaginative temperament, the same moral susceptibilities. And
Lady Macbeth too—the courage which carries
her through the night of the crime, the se‘nsibility which betrays in the sleep-walking scene
how sorely it has been outraged, are of a kind
that lie outside the range of many who keep
the beaten and safer track.

And so our judge-

ments of moral approval and disapproval are
absorbed in and transcended by a sense of the
beauty and the mystery of these great human
souls,

their conﬂict,

and their defeat; the

beauty and the mystery of human life.

drum, half-timid honesty of Bauquo, or the

H. J. C. Grierson

narrow and hard virtue of Macduff ; and be-

(from

an

edition

of

Macbeth, 1914).

Speaks not only strength but ﬁneness of soul.

9m age ry in ‘ सामac (a eth '
you dress me

The imagery in Macbeth appears to me to be
more rich and varied, more highly imaginative,
more unapproachable by any other writer,
than that of any other single play.

In borrow’d robes ?
And a few minutes later, when he is rapt in
ambitious thoughts suggested by the conﬁrmation of two out of the three ‘prophetic greet-

The ideas in the imagery are in themselves
more imaginative, more subtle and complex
than in other plays, and there are a greater

ings’, Banquo, watching him, murmurs,

New honours come upon him,
Like our strange garments, cleave not

number of them, interwoven the one with the

to their mould

other, recurring and repeating. There are at
least four of these main ideas and many subsidiary ones.

But with the aid of use.
After the murder, when Ross says he is

'7 (1) One is the picture of Mecbeth himself.
The idea constantly recurs that Macbeth’s
new honours sit ill upon him like a loose and
badly ﬁtting garment belonging to some one
else. Macbeth himself ﬁrst expresses it, quite
early in the play, when, immediately following
the ﬁrst appearance of the witches and their
prophecies, Ross arrives from the King and
greets him as thane of Cawdor, to which Macbeth quickly replies.

The thane. of Cawdor lives : why do
27

going to Scone for Macbeth’s coronation,
Macduif uses the same simile :
Well, may you see things well done
there : adieu !
than our
easier
sit
Lest our old robes
new !

And, at the end, when the tyrant is at bay at
Dunsinane and the English troops are advan-

cing, the Scottish lords still have this image in
their minds.
Angus vividly sums up the essence of what
they all have been thinking ever since

