Macbeth’s accession to power,
now does he feel his title
Hang loose about him, like a giant’s robe
Upon a dwarﬁsh thief.
This imaginative picture of a small, ignoble
man encumbered and degraded by garments
unsuited to him, should be put against the
View emphasized by some critics (notably

MACBE'I‘H PRODUCTION
( Continued from page 15)

of Macbeth who stained his hands with blood
rather prematurely “To catch the nearest way”,
—Murder—f0r power.

Should this treatment

of the play lead one to sympathise with the
sufferings of Macbeth’s Mind and pity his
ﬁnal slaughter, then this experiment need only
to be considered as a direct treatment suited
to today’s conception of mind and man.
Production

To produce a play of Shakespeare is no
doubt the happiest assignment. But it is
normally the last choice of any amateur theatre

between
Coleridge and Bradley) of the likeness
and
Macbeth and Milton’s Satan in grandeur
su blimity (2) Another image or idea which runs
through Macbeth is the reverberation of sound
echoing over vast regions, even into the limitless spaces beyond the conﬁnes of the world.
Macbeth himself, like Hamlet,

who

Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
That tears shall drown the wind,
he ﬁlls our imagination with the picture of its
being broadcast through great spaces w it h
reverberating sound.
This is taken up again by Macduff, when he
cries,
each new morn
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new

sorrows
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
As if it felt with Scotland and yell’d out
Like syllable of dolour,

but unfulﬁlled dream of many amateur associ-

Nevertheless,

tonight,

here you are;

You

Macbeth of Scotland

will

See

speaking in

Kannada, unfolding the sublime world of his

imaginations bestowed upon him by the
worlds’ greatest poet-playwright, Shakespeare.
The co-operation and earnestness with which
the artistes have been moulding and improvising their roles for the past couple of months
should now bring them the most joyous
moments of wandering in the world of Shakespeare in a language that is so dear, to them

their own mother-tongue.

fully

striding the blast,’
…
Or heaven’s cherubin, hors’d
Upon the sightless couriers of the air,

group. Production of Shakespeare even in
English is riddled with diﬁ‘iculties and, the
the production of Shakespeare plays in their
translations more often remain the cherished

ations. And in the case of a play of Macbeth’s
magnitude, the problems increase ten-fold.

is

conscious of how impossible it is to ‘tramel
up the consequence’ of his deed, and by his
magniﬁcent images of angels pleading trumpettongued, 'pity, like a naked, new-born babe,

and again by Ross, when he is trying to break
the terrible news of Macbeth’s latest murders
to Macduff——the destrcution of his own wife
and children—
I have words

That would be howl’d out in the desert air,

Where hearing should not latch them.
One can scarcely conceive a more vivid picture
of the vastnesses of space than this, and of

the overwhelming and unending nature of the
consequences or reverberations of the evil deed(3) Another constant idea in the play arises
out of the symbolism that light stands for life,

28

