virtue, goodness ; and darkness for evil and
death.

‘Angels are bright’, the witches are
A Kannada-Bharati Publication

‘secret, black and midnight hags’, and, as
Dowden says, the movement of the whole play
might be summed up in the words, ‘good
things of day begin to droop and drowse’.
This is, of course, very obvious, but out of
it develops the further thought which is assumed throughout, that the evil which is being
done is so horrible that it would blast the sight
to look on it, so darkness or partial blinding is
necessary to carry it out.
Like so much in the play it is ironic that
it should be Duncan who ﬁrst starts this
simile, the idea of which turns into a leading
motive in the tragedy. When he is conferring
the new honour on his son, he is careful to
say that others, kinsmen and thanes, will also

be rewarded :

S h aba ’ s
KAIGE BANDA TUTTU
A scheming son-in-law and his gullible wife
confront the ghost of a miserly father-inlaw, and the result is this delightful comedy in
one-act and an hour’s hearty laugh for you and
the family-

Printed on good quality paper and attractively got up. Only a few copies are left.
Rupee One only
for copies, contact .'

KANN ADA-BHAR A'I‘I,

५

4/10 W.E.A., Karol Bagh,
NEW DELHr-5०

Signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine

On all deservers.
No sooner has the King spoken than Macbeth
realizes that Malcolm, now a Prince of the

suddenly, shrinking from the blazing horror of
the murderous thought which follows, he cries

when Banquo, sleepless, uneasy, with heart
heavy as lead, crosses the courtyard on the
fateful night, with Fleance holding the ﬂaring

to himself,

torch before him, and, looking up to the dark

Stars, hide your ﬁres !
Let not light see my black and deep desires.
And from now on, the idea that only in darkness can such evil deeds be done is ever present

sky, mutters,
There’s husbandry in heaven,

realm, is an added obstacle in his path, and

with both Macbeth and his wife, as is seen in

their two different and most characteristic invocations to darkness ; her blood-curdling cry
Come thick night,
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell,
which takes added force when we hear later the
poignant words ‘She has light by her continually’ ; and his more gentle appeal in the
language of falconry,
Come, sealing night,
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day. And

Their candles are all out,

we know the scene is set for treachery and
murder.
So it is ﬁtting that on the day following
‘dark night strangles the travelling lamp’, and
darkness does the face of earth entomb
When living light should kiss it.
The idea of deeds which are too terrible for
human eyes to look on is also constant ; Lady
Macbeth scoffs it, ‘the sleeping and the dead’,
she argues, ‘are but as pictures’ :

’tis the eye of childhood
That fears a painted devil दु
29

