but Macduff, having seen the slain king, rushes
out and cries to Lennox,
Approach the chamber, and destroy your

sight
With a new Gorgon.
Macbeth boldly asserts he dare look on that
'which might appal the devil’, and the horror
and fear he feels on seeing one ‘too like the spirit
of Banquo’ in the procession of kings is expressed in his agonized cry,
कि
The crown does scar mine eye-balls ;

while in his bitter and beautiful words at the
close, the dominant thoughts and images are
the quenching of light and the empty reverberation of sound and fury, ‘signifying nothing’.
(4) The fourth of the chief symbolic ideas
in the play is one which is very constant with
Shakespeare and is to be found all through his
work, that sin is a disease—Scotland is sick.

So Macbeth, while repudiating physic for
himself, turns to the doctor and says if he
could by analysis ﬁnd Scotland’s disease

And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
,
I would applaud thee to the very echo
That should applaud again .... ..
What rhubarb, senna, or What purgative
drug,
?
e
henc
ish
Engl
e
thes
r
scou
d
Woul
Malcolm speaks of his country as weeping,

bleeding, and wounded, and later urges Macduff to
. ॰
make us medicmes of our great revenge,
To cure this deadly grief,
while Caithness calls Malcolm himself the
‘medicine of the sickly weal’, ‘the country’s

purge’.
It is worth noting that all Macbeth’s
images of sickness are remedial or soothing in
character : balm for a sore, sleep after fever, a

purge, physic for pain, a ‘sweet oblivious antidote’, thus intensifying to the reader or audience his passionate and constant longing for
well-being, rest, and, above all, peace of mind.
From C. F. E. Spurgeon, Shakespeare’s
Imagery (1935).

A JAN TA PAINTINGS
An excellent publication brought out on the occasion of Buddha Jayanti Celebrations.
Portfolio contains 20 plates in colour of Masterpieces of Ajanta Frescoes.
183,” X 14" Rs. 10.00
ARTI ST S DIRECTORY
The directory contains important information of nearly six hundred artists covering
engravers, painters and sculptors of India. 123 pages.

syxss" Rs. 4.00
SEMINAR ON ART EDUCATION
Contains the recommendations made at the Seminar held at New Delhi with papers read
by artists, educationists and teachers of Art Education. 123 pages.
9%” X 6%” Rs. 2.50
SEMINAR ON ARCHITECTURE
Contains papers read by well known participating architects, professors and artists from
all over India. 207 pages.

9%" x 7.1;” Rs. 6.00
SEMINAR ON INDIAN ART HISTORY
Contains papers read at the Seminar by eminent art historiansheld at Sarnath. 106 pages.
8”><5” Rs. 5.00

Write for further details to :

LA LIT KAL A AKADEMI
Rabindra Bhavan, New Delhi

