KANNADA-BHADATI
Registered as a Society under Societies Registration Act

Aims and Objects '
The main object for which KANNADA-BHARATI is established is to foster,
develop and actively work for the Kannada language, literature and culture.
It shall remain non-political, non—religious and non-sectarian.

- In pursuance of the main objective set forth abOVe,,aKannada-Bharati shall
endeavour to:
"
३
३
३ ३
(i) introduce the very best in Kannada literature. and culture to the non, Kannada people and similarly-bring into Kannada the very best in the
ﬁelds of language, literature and culture from other Indian or world
languages, and thus work for the unity and --the_ emotional integration
of the country in particular and the human, race in general, through
literary and cultural means;
, '
मृ
.
(ii) start and run a Theatre-group in Delhi to put up plays in Kannada

either in original or in translation, as well as - translations of Kannada
(iii)

- -

(iv)
'
.
~(v)

(vi)

(vii)
(viii)

plays in English or any Indian language;
start a Publications Wing to prepare and publish or assist associations
and individuals in publishing works on literary and cultural subjects in
original or translation in Kannada: as .well as on Kannada literature
and culture in English or any Indian language;
८ establish and- maintain libraries and reading rooms mainly with books
and journals in Kannada and on subjects of Kannada interest in English
or any Indian language;
;_
.
.have a. building of its own in the Union Territory of Delhi to serve as a
centre of its activities and house its ofﬁce;
promote and organise lectures, study courses, exhibitions, seminars,
conferences and festivals and such other literary and cultural activities
as are eonducrve or ineldental to the main object ; ’
act as a clearing house . for -. information on all matters pertaining to
Kannada language, literature and culture ;
‘ exchange hospitality with other similar cultural organisations in Delhi
or in any part of India or the world.
I Associate Membership

The Associate Membership of Kannada-Bharati is open to all those who identify themselves and sympathise with the above aims and objects. The Membership
fee- for this category is Rs. 15 per annum, payable either in lump or in three con-

secutive monthly instalments of Rs. 5. An Associate is entitled :
(i) to a free seat for all ticketted performances of the plays staged by
Kannada-Bharati;
. (ii) to a discount of 25% on any number of copies of all its priced publications; अं
.
(iii) to a free copy each of all its publications and such other beneﬁts and
privileges which may be conferred from time to time.
'

