WATC H

p l 5 link SATURDAY, JULY 18, 2015

Firmly in an artiste’s skin ३
Aniruddha Knight comfortably embraces Bharatanatyam’s female repertoire
The right balance
Arilruddha Knight
knows his work IS
rooted in a female
dominated art, Also,

there Is the onus of
being the iconic
Balasa raswat।’s
grandson

niruddha Knight comes with one '
too many preﬁxes. He is Bharatanatyarn exponent extraordinaire T Balasaraswati’s grandson; he is the
ﬁrst male dancer in nine generations of a fam—
ily in which women traditionally inherited
the performance art; even his name piques curiosity. Aburden of antecedence, whichhe has
willy-nilly turned to advantage. “I let people
introduce me that way because you need.a
hook somewhere. Being the ﬁrst male dancer
of my family is a one-line introduction to my
art and all that goes with it.” he says.
A couple of weeks earlier, I’d heard him
speak eloquently about his family’s art before
performing a combined song-anddance set.
In this style, which is rooted in his family’s tradition, the dancer is also the singer, and the
music is adapted to the movements. Each line
of a padam (lyrical piece) is repeated many
times, allowing for on-the-spot improvisation
of both music and dance. A playful tug—of-war
ensues between the two, resulting ina distinct
rendition with every repetition. Knight perhaps represents the last remaining practitioners of this art, which is a seamless blend of
dance and music. “The beauty is in its spontaneity. A completely choreographed piece is
alien to our culture. It isall in the manodharma
(improvisation)," he explained to the
gathering.
._
Standing at more than six feet, Knight looks
stately, with a gait that is graceful and unfai—
tering. He is dressed in a pattu veshti and shirt
when I arrive at his home. The performing artiste is discernible even in this casual setting. I
am unsure whether to begin with the question of gender and dance; he is that rare male
artiste who has embraced the female repertoire on stage and has previously never expressed any inner conflict about it. 1 surmise
he might be open to elaborating on this, so 1
prod. “’The artiste on stage is a genderless (or
gender-ﬂuid) entity. When depicting a woman
character, there are resources, such as music,
from which the dance comes. When the
source does not associate with any gender
why must the outcome, or the influence of it
, have one?” he asks. The bias then comes from
an external source.
A theory in literary criticism talks about

how readers ‘make' the text.

dancer and musician on stage, as well as
the scope for spontaneity and ingenuity.meaning. Audiences in a
His way of arresting the elitism
dance,performance have a
creeping into the art is through
similar role. However, they
dance classes for childrenfrom ecobring their own prejudices
nomically weaker backgrounds.
to the interpretation, someHe believes that if you train
times limiting the art. “Peoenough people to become arple fail to grasp the sensuality
tistes, their heart will be in the
within'the art form, often relatright place and the basic weave
ing it to sexuality. Dancing in the feof society can be changed.
male voice doesn't determineone‘s
As the interview pro
sexuality.- That imhat they are
gresses, it is evident that
afraid/unclear about, consequently
, . I ५ Knight is less inclined
holding the dance itself in conto talk about himself,
tempt," Knight says.
preferring instead to
His family traces its ancestry to
speak about what ails
the Devadasi community, which traBharatanatyam today. He slips into Tamil
ditionally performed in temple couroften, adopting his mother tongue for rhettyards, re-telling myths and epics
orical questions that indict the classical ‘
through music and dance. While the
dance ecosystem. He laments the misplaced
custom saw an eventual decay, in its
need to canonise dance formsand viewthem
heyday it was a profession marked by
in antiquity. The desire to hark back to a
exclusivity, accessible only to a
source, book or tradition that is
speciﬁc community.
at least 5,000 years old. BharataDrawing parallels, Knight says
ﬂ-JK-ﬁ
natyarn as performed today is
that exclusivity is today perpetu—
Wemlwm
about 200 years old, including
ated through a different means
munymlnm
periodic reformations. “Yes, 1 am
— economics. Echoing Carnatic
mm m
sure we were dancing 5,000
singer TM Krishna’s recent allermng’ﬂ”
years ago in some primitive cave,
gationsof corruption in the runmsW‘mnﬂn around a ﬁre," he ३ says
ning‘ of sabhas, Knight too
mummvoiu
disrnissively.
contends that the ,world-red
.I I I
In.
Before long, though, you
nowned Decembermusic season
on...
my
glimpse the vulnerability of a
in Chennai is an amazing array
performing artiste in a constantof artistes who can afford to pay
\_.V._.J
ly changing world. “There are
fortheir slots. “This is a reality no
days 1 wish1 did anine-to-ﬁve job
dancer wishes to talk about; it is
, and had no inclination towards
heretical," he says. The character of the per- dance at all. It can feel isolating to be in a fe—
formances is changing too. An average sabha
male-dominated art with a predominantly feslot has been reduced to an hour and 15 min- male voice. Plus, there is the onus of being
utes, and designed to squeeze in as many per- Balamma’s grandson," he says and lingers
formances as possible. “During my awhile on that thought. When he bounces
grandmother’s time, performances began at back, it is to an optimistic place, ﬁnding suc—
8pm and went on till 11-1130pm. That is how cour in an artistic process that involves repeatthe academy [the redoubtable Music Acade- ed annihilation to allow creation — “trying to
my] worked then," he says.
ﬁnd yourself, shooting yourselfdown and recBesides. as artistes have to bear all expenses, reating," as he puts it.
they are increasingly turning to compact discs
to replace live musicians. In effect, they lose "MARI" "ALI-IMADUGULA isa Chennai-based
out on the vital communication between freelance writer

They are the agents that give

