P R O D U C E R’ 5 NOTE :

For an amateur dramatic group to keep the footlights burning with
an historical play requires courage, to say the least. It has not only to
grapple with historical accuracy (or the lack of it!) in plot, scene, mood,
sound and costume, but also with preconceived ideas people have of
characters who have romped through history books since school was
invented. Selection of a suitable historical play for amateurs is of primary
importance. So, when the British High Com: ADC made known their
intention of staging “The Rose" and requested me to produce it, the.
challenge was sufﬁciently provocative to induce me to accept it.

Moreover, in the ﬁfteen years that l have been associated with
Delhi drarnatics, । could not recollect an English historical play having
ever been attempted, and so I found the chance to try to depict the
rollicking days of Henry 8th’s England—when a winsorne smile could mean
a crown, the scratch of a pen changed relationships, and an unflickering

eyelid the executioner’s block—particularly intriguing. Again, having
worked with the British High Com: ADC on several previous occasions,
। knew them to be extremely co-operative, unstinting in their efforts to
achieve an acceptable degree of perfection and devoted to dramatics for
the sake of shere fun and entertainment so that a good time may be had
by all—back-stage, on stage and out in front !

Even with this spirit however, I had my dilemmas. One of the ﬁrst
and perhaps the most difficult, was to cast the play suitably. Here again,
the choice of an historical play was the stumbling block—(that word
keeps haunting me !)- 1 had to take a decision between conforming to
popular visual conceptions of well-known historical characters, or to
place my emphasis upon interpretation. I chose the latter. I hope that
l
my players rendition of their roles will make amends for any historica
inaccuracy in face or ﬁgure.

Then again, when a dramatic society is a part of an official organization, inevitably players, have frequently to meet social and official
has
obligations which clash with rigorous rehearsal schedules. This
great
a
d
involve
has
so
and
m
minimu
a
to
ls
entailed telescoping rehearsa
ally as
deal of concentrated effort for both producer and players—especi
writing
of
time
eighty per cent of the cast has never acted before. At
been
this note, the degree of perfection I had hoped for has not quite team
wonderful
achieved, but with a few rehearsals in hand, and the

curtain goes
spirit which exists in this group, 1 am certain that when the
that each
hope
।
e.
audienc
our
int
disappo
up, we shall not altogether
little cameo of
one of you will meet us across this simple, unpretentious
Katheryn
that
Tudor life with the same feeling of momentary delight
the sun,
in
g
ripenin
found in “Hollyhocks and wallflowers, and pears
l”
bed
and a tabby cat snoozing by the strawberry

P r e m i n d a P rem C h a n d

