HISTORICAL NOTE by IAN SHANKLAND

Henry VIII came to the throne in l509 at the age of eighteen.
“THE ROSE WITHOUT A THORN” opens in l540. He had been
“married” four times—to Catherine of Aragon, l509-l533. to Anne
Boleyn l533-36, to Jane Seymour l936-37 (Hertford's sister) and to Anne

of Cleves “the red queen" l540.

Katheryn Howard was the “Catholic" candidate. She, like her
ﬁrst cousin Anne Boleyn (Nan Bullen in the play—Tudor spelling was not
ﬁxed), was a grand daughter of the most proliﬁc Duke of Norfolk.
Katheryn seems to have possessed the vivacity without the sharp tongue
of her cousin.

She was brought up ﬁrst at Horsham, then at Lambeth,

in the large establishment, of an indulgent grand mother.

ln l540 Katheryn, with the active connivance of the “Catholics"
Norfolk and Gardiner (bishop of Winchester) came to Court, where

“the King’s Highness did cast a fantasy to Katheryn Howard the ﬁrst
time that ever his Grace saw her". Her age at this time is uncertain:
she may have been anything from l6 to 20; but she was certainly several
years younger than Henry’s daughter, Mary. On the day Cromwell was
executed, Henry married Katheryn (28 July l540) and the “Catholic”
wing triumphed. In the play Katheryn’s productivities are illustrated by
her sending blankets to the aged Catholic “warhorse”, the Countess of
Salisbury. The acts of kindness by Katheryn Howard in the course of the
play are not ﬁctions introduced with a view to whitewashing a wanton.

They are facts. The incident of the Block in Act lll, scene 2, and Henry's
behaviour at the end of Act III, scene I, are also historical.

the play is the phrase with which Henry described Katheryn.

The title of

However,

the Protestant wing quickly had its revenge for Katheryn’s youthful
indiscretions were known to too many people. Moreover, she was
again in love, this time with another, though distant cousin, Thomas
Culpeper. Both were alarmingly naive, with the inevitable result. After
condemnation by Parliament, Katheryn lost her head on almost exactly
the same spot where Anne had lost hers in l536. The marriage had
lasted barely eighteen months. Henry's ﬁnal experiment in matrimony
was the twice- widowed Catharine Parr, who was to marry, after Henry’s

death, Hertford’ s younger brother.

