THE TRADITION
The Chorus Repertory Theatre, established in April 1976, at
lrnphal, in the small hill state of Manipur, in north-eastern India, has
set a model for a distinctive kind of Indian theatre in which old
ritualistic and dance traditions peculiar to the region are used to
project themes that are traditional and modern at the same time.
The folk traditions of Manipur derive their strength from the
mingling of the vigorous, earthy and rhythmic tribal forms and the
more sinuous and lyrical forms of the plainsfolk and the religious
missionaries who came in from neighbouring regions. While the
tribals bring to their forms, traces of a racial memory of battles and
hunting and the clearing of the forest, the later religious culture
rooted in the values of more stable times celebrates the loves of
Radha and Krishna, and finds in their sacred love a symbolic
manifestation of the harmony that they see at the core of life. The

music, the strange instruments, the drums, the dance movements,
the rich oral narrative patterns, all bear the burden of the two
parallel traditions.

THE PLAYS
Ratan Th iyam , son of one of the old masters of the Rosa, the best
known of the Manipuri sacred dances, has had his training in
theatre at the National School of Drama, from where he returned
to Manipur to aeate a fascinating combination of the values of
modern theatre and the Manipuri traditions. The Chorus Repertory
Theatre, under his leadership, supports itself by running a ﬁshery

and modern theatre. It hm located about 25 traditional masters
with specializations in branches like singing with mime themartial
arts, the sacred dances, the seasonal ceremonies, drum dances,
and oral narrative styles, and proposes to provide them with an
institution where they can practise their skills and arts and impart
training at the some time. The cell will offer different kinds of
courses and workshop experiences to dance and theatre workers
from India and different parts of the world, and opportunities to
work in "close collaboration with these great traditional masters.

THE DIRECTOR
Ratan Thiyam believes in the expressive charge of visuals drawn
from his traditions. He tries to relate the traditional expressions
however to the matrix of their original environment before using
them in his work. He is more interested in the training process
through which the actor enters into the sources of the traditional
forms than in the performance proper. The training system that he
has constructed on the basis of the traditional methods has to do
more with absorption of movements to the point where they can
re-emerge as a maturer ﬂexibility of the body and the voice at the
same time, than with mere mastery of skills.

and a dairy farm, and r'ehearses in a hut studio. For most of its

productions, Chorus goes back to popular folk tales of the region.
In Shanarembi Chaishra (1977), a beautiful, poor and innocent
girl fails a victim to the intrigues of a highly sophisticated court, and
her stepmother’s wiles to promote the prospects of her stepsister,
who looks closely alike, proving in the process the fragility of
innocence. ln Uchek Langmeidong ( 1979) the world of birds and
the world of human beings are brought together to underscore
the cruelty inherent in human relations. The complicated pattern
of battles and warriors and blood feuds and intrigues in Khamba
Yelhou (1980) leaves its warrior hero Puremba a social outcast,
exploited by the rulers and masters and left destitute at the end. In
Leima Yenglingei Khuna Kaba (1981 ), another complicated
story serves as an exposure at cortuption rooted in civil society, with

corruption growing into religion and becoming a natural duty
ultimately. In Urubhangam ( 1 981 ), a short classical play in Sanskrit,
Chorus used a whole range of traditional theatric devices to
weave around the simple episode from the old epics a rich
tapestry of forms and gestures and musical expression.

CHAKRAWU HA
THE PLAY

The epic poem, Mahabharata, was written by the sage Vyasa
several thousands of years ago. The epic is divided into chapters,
each of which deals with several episodes. The common theme
that knits the epic together is war and peace and the story of a
house divided within itself, Apart from its tremendous literary
value, the epic is a comprehemive treatise on social ethics and
philosophy and speculates on the problems inherent in the
human condition. The epic takes up the story of two warring clansthe Pandavas and the Kauravas respectively. The PandavasYudhistra, Arjuna, Bhima, Nakul and Sahdeva— were the five sons

of King Pandu. Pandu had a brother called Dhritarashtra, who in

Production of LENGSHONEI (Sophocles’ Antigone - 1986) was a

turn had a hundred sons, known collectively as the Kauravas.

synthesis of Greek Narrative visualised in terms of Indian Classical

time regional as well as universal.

Pandu dies and Dhritarashtra ascends the throne. Dhritarashtra is
blind. This physical handicap extends into his dealings with his sons
and their cousins - Dhritarashtra is blind to the faults of his sons.
Jealousy is compounded by a clash of interests and a power
struggle builds up culminating in the epic battle of Kurukshetra.

THEIR EXPLORATIONS
Chorus is setting up a research cell to generate closer interaction
between the Manipuri ritual performance and dance traditions

In the battle of Kurukshetra, the two clans of the Kauravcn and
Pandavas are ranged against each other, backed by their scions
and legions.

and Traditional forms using down to earth tribal symbols and
visuals. Set in the hills of North -Eastern India the play achieved a
fluidity of action charged with rawness which was at the same

