३ क्या_rap-v.34”.3...

On the side of the Kauravas was the great teacher, Drona
charya
who trained both clans in the art of warfare. Ac
cused by the

Kauravas of being half-hearted in his efforts as the general of thei
r
army, Dronacharya \forms a Chakravyuha a spiral milita
ry
formation of cosmic power. The secret of penetratin
g the

Chakravyuha is known to none otherthanArjuna. who learnt it
from

The play, which deals with this particular episode, raises several
questions triggerred off by the slaying of Abhimanyu. Is
Abhimanyu a martyr? Or, was he the scapegoat of a system which
had at its heart, treachery, deceit, desperation, moral

degradation and materialism? Or was he the sacrificial offering in
a great rite of power grappling?

Dronacharya.

PROCESS OF EVOLUTION
In the course of a conversation, Arjuna had revealed this secret to

his pregnant wife, Subhadra. The foetus in Subhadra’s womb thus
learns the secret of how to enter the Chakravyuha but since
Subhadra falls asleep midway through the conversation, her child
does not know how to break out of it.

This child, Abhimanyu, is slaughtered on the thirteenth day of the
battle of Kurukshetra when he enters the Chakravyuh but is unable

to come out of it. His father, Arjuna, was engaged in a battle
elsewhereln thisepisodeYudhishthira the embodiment of truth.is
not true to his word, for knowing that Abhimanyu cannot come out

A continuous process of experimentation at two levelsstudy of
scriptures and physical visualisation of images with the help of
traditional art forms-resulted in the production of Chakravyuha.
First phase consisted of in-depth study of the epic (The
Mahabharata) itself. Main text of Mahabharata was studied
alongwith various tributary stories and legends available in the
scriptures. Focal point was the Dharamkshetra-Kurukshetra war.
Most important episode, the claim of the great war, was

Abhimanyu Vadha (killing of Abhimanyu) which forms the part of
Drona Parva.

The reinforcements never reach. The Kauravas too use foul

Reading the epic and its tributaries, the actors, director and
playwright were continually trying to understand the genesis of
war, cause and effect and various motivations for such

methods. And thus a fearless sixteen-year-old boy is treacherously

phenomena. They were, trying to discern parallels and strains of

butchered by the Saptarathis—the seven charioteers who along
with their armies form the spirals of the Chakravyuha.

the contemporary world facing the threat of extinction with ever
increasing war heads.

of theChakrovaho he sends him into it, promising reinforcements.

