Traditional gurus of narrative forms from various regions who
make Mahabharata the subject of their presentations were
invited to study their artistic and creative departures from the
original epic-departures which lend a flavour and colour of their
own so peculiar to a region. Actors also underwent a training

PROLOG UE

was the next step. Various aspects of Martial Arts were studied in

In this verse, where the nectar flows, called Dharmakshetra
Kurukshetra,
By chanting the Mantra of Hari through swords,
By chanting the Mantra of Vishnu through arrows,
We are throwing red abir
and celebrating the festival of Holi with red blood from Pichkari
In this Mahayagna,
with the great sactificial rites of power grappling,
we all become the offering
the great power-hunters have already let loose
their horse of Ashvamedha for sacrifice

detail and actors went through an intensive training programme.

SCENE | -KAURAVA’S CAMP

programme to learn various regional traditional forms of visual
and aural narrative to give them utmost flexibility of voice and
body as related to a particular subject matter. They equipped
themselves to present vivid pictures of various happenings in the
battle field with powerful gestures and visual symbols.

Conversion of the war games narrative into striking stage visuals

Some more traditional forms of presentations were studied in
detail to enrich the visual vocabulary of the actors.

Guru Dronacharya—the Kaurava’s general-is doing his routine of

Actual text of Chakravyuha was still far away.

daily prayers after a hectic day of battle. It is his third day as the
General of the Kaurava armies. Duryodhanaeldest son of the

Though the story line, as given in the Drona Parva ofMahabharata
was very clear cut, the regional nuances and flavours one had
learnt from the traditional teachers made it an interesting exercise
of incorporation of such subtleties and its relevance to our
contemporary sensibilities. At this stage, a detailed study of

Bharata’s Natya Shastra Nandikeshwar's AbhinayaDarpanand its
use for the modern actor was undertaken. Some other theatre
classic, both ancient and modern, were studied to make the
actors aware of the intricacies of the craft of playwrighting as
practices by the masters of drama. They were made aware of the
structure, form, content etc. They were aware how a single
sentence is composed, why a particular word is used and not the
other one. The play did not come to them as a ready made thing.
Actors went through the pangs of creation with the playwright.

Long discussions were held to relate the prologue with
contemporary situations. A thing like World Olympic games
opening became a source material for the prologue. There are
hundreds of flags representing various countries. But they are not
independent entities. They are over-shadowed by 3-4 super
power. Their ﬂags over-power them.
Main thrust in discussions was how to relate politics and war with an
epic. This exercise continued with the process of writing.

Actors were also involved in the process of designing and
fabrication of masks, costumes and properties. They built them bit
by bit and these items did not remain only theatrical properties or
external embelishments but became a part of their physical and
mental characterisation.
Various theatrical elements used from the traditional forms were
m
nis
tio
ibi
exh
for
ed
us
not
re
we
ey
Th
.
ive
rat
nar
the
t
sui
to
adapted
the
to
ing
ord
acc
s,
ect
eff
ic
at
am
dr
e
ev
hi
ac
to
but
as
lic
or as rep
demand of thematic content.

The process of playwrighting continued with the process of rediscovery, 0 process of re—interpretation and a process where the
playwright, the director and the actors were equal partners.

blind King Dhritrashtra enters with his entourage of Kauravas
including his younger brother Dussashana who is more vociferous
and uncle Shakuni who is very cunning and mischievous. They

accuse Dronacharya of going soft on the Pandavas as they were
his favourite d i sciples while he used to teach them war-fare. They
ask him to prove his loyalty towards the Kauravas by creating
Chakravyuha the cosmic military formation which nobody can
penetrate. Dronacharya tells them that Arjuna, one of the
Pandavas. knows how to break that formation. He is informed that

Arjuna is engaged in a battle at a far off distance and is not likely to
come very soon. Guru Dronacharya agrees to build that military

strategy.
SCENE ll - PANDAVA CAMP
Abhimanyu- 1 a years old son ofArj'una, the brave Pandava warrior
has an evil dream while sleeping in the lap of his old and loving
charioteer Sumitra, under whose care Subhadra, Abhimanyu’s
mother, has given him.
Yudhisthira the oldest of Pandavasenters with Bhima the second
son of Pandavas and informs Abhimanyu about the formation of
Chakravyuha by the enemy. They are worried that there is no
warrior in the Pandava camp who can penetrate this formation in
the absence of Arjuna who has gone away to some other battle.
Abh i manyu informs them that he knows the art of penetrating the
Chakravyuha .
Yudhisthira is surprised by this information and wantsto know how
Abhimanyu has learnt the intricacies of this war strategy.
Abhimanyu tells.

FLASH BACK

Subhadra and Arjuna, Abhimanyu’s parents, are talking when
Abhimanyu is only 5 month old foetus in Subhadra's womb. They
are talking about the difficult times to come and how they should
protect their forthcoming child from the vagaries of life. They talk
about the materialistic attitudes of people who compromise their
morals and values for petty gains.

