Arjuna describes to his wife how he wants to make his yet-to-be
born child a perfect warrior by teaching him all crafts of war-fore.
He tells her about the Chakravyuha-the cosmic formation of war

fare. The child in the womb listem to this description but
unfortunately he is unable to listen to the method of coming out
after penetrating, as Subhadra falls asleep.

FLASH BACK ENDS.
Yudhishtra asks Abhimanyu to embark on the assignment of
breaking into the formation. He promises to rescue him through
re-inforcements of armed help.
SCENE lll- BATTLE SCENE
Guru Dronacharya is instructing the seven charioteers regarding
their placement in the formation. He places Duryodhana-the
Kaurava prince-at the centre surrounded by able warriors on both
sides.
On another spot in the battle field, Abhimanyu is instructing his
Charioteer Saumitra as to how he should decorate his chariotwith
all the war motifs and weaponery. He also describes how he will
prepare himself and dress like a gallant and brave man. He feels
very enthusiastic about this venture.

Both sides follow
ritual of marching towards the battle fields.
SCENE IV : ENTRANCE TO CHAKRAWUHA
Jayadratha, one of the seven charioteers of Kauravas is guarding
the entrance to Chakravyuha. He worships Lord Shiva the god of
cosmic destruction for help and blessings. Abhimanyu appears on
the scene and tells Jayadratha to allow him to enter. Jayadratha
refuses and there is a fight. Jayadratha flees the scene wounded.

SCENE V : INSIDE CHAKRAWUHA
Abhimanyu continues to fight inside the Chakravyuha and
suceeds in overpowering several charioteers. Cunning Shakuni

and Kaurava prince Duryodhana talk about new strategies and
they plan to trap Abhimanyu inside the formation. They are
prepared to play foul to achieve their goal.
SCENE VI : CHAKRAWUHA
"
Abhimanyu continues his desperate battle within the Chakravyuha.

He needs the promised reinforcements very badly but there is no
news about them. Single handed, he fights valiantly. His own
chariot-driver is over-powered and ‘ killed. Abhimanyu is
surrounded by the trecherous enemies. There is no help from his
elders. He is left alone to die. His cries of anguish for his father's help
rent the air for nothing.

