7

.

Sunops ts
Satish, son of a lawyer father of moderate
means, ﬁnds himself in love With Nalini

(Nellie), his childhood friend and the daughter
of a father of means. Mr. Lahiri, Nellie’s
father, is a typical Anglophile of an earlier
generation who sought Perfection by the process of speaking and thinking and dreaming
in English, and whose veneration for everything English was matched only by their contempt for anything Indian.
A crowd of
friends and admirers—flashy young men with
faultless European dress and manners—surrounded Nellie, some of them aspiring for
her hands in wedlock; the most conspicuous
of them was the debonair Mr. Nundy, a
promising Barrister, who to all outward

appearances seemed to be winning the race
Satish,

with his

clothes

and clumsy manners cut

squeaking

shoes,

cheap

a

poor

ﬁgure indeed in this smart set, and he was

tolerated only for the sake of his childhood friendship with
Nellie and her marked liking for him.
Lacking the character to admit his relative poverty, of

which he is mortally ashamed, he indulges in ruinous spendings just to keep up with the other young men in far easier
circumstances who frequented the Lahiri home. In this he

is aided and abetted by his doting mother—who keeps him
well-supplied with funds,

causing

considerable strain to

the domestic ﬁnance and annoyance to her husband (Manmatha)——and his wealthy childless maternal aunt, Sukumari.

This lands him in frequent ﬁnancial embarrassment.

Nellie,

who is genuinely fond of Satish, does her best to dissuade
him from this senseless and ruinous course, but with no
results. Satish foolishly thinks that the way to win her was

through a parade of wealth (of which he was woefully
deﬁcient).
Matters come to a head when Satish pawns his father's

gold ‘Izookah’—~a family heirloom—and buys Nellie a gold
necklace, just to outdo Mr. Nundy, who had bought her a
costly bracelet as a birthday gift. The loss of the ‘hookah’
is discovered and Manrnatha rightly suspects his son of
complicity in it, and in exasperation decides to place the
matter in the hands of the Police.

In panic, Satish rushes

to Nellie and confesses everything, including his present

