के a???

predicament.

Nellie persuades him to take back the neck

was not based on
lace, assuring him that her love for him
ces Satish leaving
his false show of riches. Nundy noti

ism.
with the necklace and assults him with his heartless wittic
g position, and
Nellie rescuses Satish from this humiliatin
for Satish.
shows in unmistakeable manner her preference
offers him- .
Nundy accepts his defeat sportingly and directly
and is eagerly
self in marriage to Charu, Nellie’s companion
accepted. Meanwhile Sukurnari with her husband Sashadhar dissuades Manmatha from exposing his son to Police
not to
investigation. In utter disgust, Manrnatha decides
Soon after
have anything further to do with his son.
his
Manrnatha suddenly dies of a heart attack. Satish with
mother moves to his auntie’s house, where he enjoys a spell

of happy life of his choice, free from all anxieties and
wants.
The spell is however rudely broken with the birth of a
son to Sukumari. The birth of an heir to Sashadhar’s for-

tune is a bitter pill for Satish and his mother to swallow,
and they could not, therefore, be particularly fond of the

child, Haren.

To Sukumari, on the other sides, Satish is no

longer the blue-eyed boy he had been in her childless days;

she not only resents his presence in the family but has begun
to regret the good money spent on him so far.
chance to drive home her feelings to Satish,

She loses no

telling him that

he should no longer be a burden to them. Thoroughly
disillusioned and cruelly humiliated, Satish decides to repay
all the money her aunt could have possibly spent on him

and takes the mad step of stealing a large sum of money
from the ofﬁce in which he works and to kill himself after
paying her the cash.

On his way out after theldramatic

encounter with his aunt, he sees Haren playing in the garden
and in insane jealousy all but ﬁres at hirn,shouting at the
same time to his aunt to come and save her child. Nellie,

who had sensed some danger from Satish’s dramatic letter
she had received, appears on the scene.

Sashadhar who

had seen Satish being systematically spoilt by his mother and
his aunt ever sence he was a child, feels that Satish’s faults
were as much as their own. He could see that Satish was
not essentially bad he was just a weakling, labouring under
false ideas; and that humane treatment from persons he
c0uld love and respect would put him on his feet again.
He therefore intervenes, squares things up with Satish’s em-

ployers about the stolen money, and puts him in 'Nellie’s
charger ‘forever afterward ’s.

