National School of Drama Repertory Company

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in

extensively all over India and has made several suc—

1964-65 on an experimental basis by Shri E.Alkazi. in

cessful trips of Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and
Mauritius.

the beginning, it consisted of only four actors, musi—
clans and technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in

the National School of Drama, Delhi. in 1964 late Shri
Om Shivpuri led the company and later in 1977, Shri
Manohar Singh became the ﬁrst regular Chief of Reper-

1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary through a

major festival of his plays.

tory. When Manohar Singh left the Repertory company

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs,

in 1985, for a short period Ms. Uttara Baokar and Ms.
Surekha Sirkri looked after the functioning of the
company. Later Shri J. N. Kaushal ofﬁciated as the chief
till 1988. From 1988 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was

set~models, costumes, properties, posters etc. of

heading the company. From 1 994 to 97 Shri Kaushal

Bansi Kaul .

Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1 991 on the
occassion 'of the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the
Company. It is a permanent exhibition designed by Shri

was again functioning as acting Chief.
Business Manager

T. R. Bakhshi

Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of

Light Technician

(3.5. Marathe

plays ranging from stylized musicals to realistic con-

Sound Technician

S. N. Dasgupta

temporary works of Indian drama to translations and

Music lncharge

Om Prakash

adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent direc—

Wardrobe lncharge

Gursharan Kaur

tors of national and international repute from within

Workshop lncharge

Abdul Hakim

the country and abroad have worked with the Com—

Box Ofﬁce

S. P. Sharma,

pany.

Ramesh Athwal,
S. R. Yadav,

Repertory has performed over hundred and twenty
T. R Bhatt.
plays by seventy playwrights and has worked with ﬁfty
D i re cto r,

directors. Quite a few of the actor of the company have
National School

emerged, over the years, as celebrities in theatre,
of D rama

cinema and television of lndia. The Repertory tours

Prof Ram Gopal Baia]

