Director’s Note
_

State is the best creation of man as it is not an imitation

ends with a message that this organisational illness is as

of any thing that existed before. As social contract

fatal as cancer and to resist it is impossible. Now the

theorists believe, state is the result of a genuine

point is, should we look at the play only from the angle

creative agreement based on the populer will of the

of entertainment? or should we really think of this

majority. Nature provided many things to humanbeings

dangerous d i seas .

except law and order, it self. Thus with the emergence
The play ends with dogs crying which in our society is
of state a primitive society is transpered into a civil
regarded as omen. God knows what kind of disorder
so c iety.

this will bring forward .
With the change of time human wants changed which
led to a siries of inventions and discoveries in the ﬁeld

In the making of the paly, we improvised a couple of
additional scenes to say more to the audience about the

of science and technology, there by making society
frustration of the real intellectuals, the love and
more complex. The social network became
emotional angle of individuals and the impact of ﬁlms
complicated. Thus emerged the concept of division of

on youth while doing these scenes I’ve tried to
labour, division of time, rank, ﬁle, tape etc. ofﬁcialdorn
incorporate few poems of all time great poet—dramatist
took its birth.

Bertolt Brecht.
Almost all the modern democracies accornadated
This play is though directed by me, but it is a collective

ofﬁcialdom for organisational efﬁciency but...... what
work of many individuals. Without their help, I would
about the selﬁsh and corrupt nature of humanbeings?
not have come-out sucessfully.
This nature of humanbeings germinated organisational
illness, and bureaucracy started playing its game—

I am thankful to all technical and administrative staff of

curruption, favouritisarn arogance, and insensitivity

NSD Repertory Company, for their co-operation. i am

towards public needs.

also thankful to all real impulsive actors and actresses
who are also my colleague, it was really exciting for me

The present play “TAJ MAHAL KA TENDER" is a satire

to work with them. 1 am also greatful to Prof. Ram
on the rank. ﬁle, red tape and ofﬁcialdorn. lt focusses
Gopal Bajaj, Director National School of Drama, for
on the organisational diseases that India is suffring
suggesting me the script and giving me the chance to
from-corruption, idleness, favouritism, backwardness
Direct the play with NS D Repertory Company.
arrogance and insensitivity to public needs. The play
During the rehersa/
जैहै .

