व्याख्या…

A मां

अं' r ८३३ V;
हैं

U.

८.८८ ८८१७.- a. . ,

r, About the production
When a man cannot abide by the present he either reconstructs the past or sets
to change the ‘future’. Willy Lornan does just that. He lacks a grip on the
forces of life nor has he a value system which can give him such a grip. What
follows is inivitable. When future is bleak and past lacks any substance he
creates an illusion to sustain his greater illusion.

The production follows the rythms and currents of Willy’s mind. A fusion of
ralism and expression is sought so as to' enable us to judge willy Loman and
his own tensions without being carried away by his thoughts.
It grows from images of futility-the sunday afternoons polishing the car- where
is that car now?
A little frame house on a street of frame houses, which once had been loud with

the noise of growing boys and then empty and silent and ﬁnally occupied by
stra-ngers who Could not know with what joy Willy and his boys ones rc-shingled
the roof.
The endless, convoluted discussions, wonderrnents, arguements, belittlements,

encouragements, ﬁery resolutions, abdictions, returns, partings voyages out and
voyages back. tremendous Oppertunity and small, squeaking denouncements-and
all in the kitchen now occupied by strangers who cannot hear what the walls

are sayingThe inage of aging and so many of your friends alredy gone, _ Strangers in the
seats of the mighty who do not know you or your triumphs or your incredible
val u e.

The image of son’s hard public eye on you. no longer swept by your myth, no
longer rousable from his separateness, no longer knowing you have lived for him
and wept for him.

The image of people turning into strangers who only evaluate one another.
And above all, the image of a need greater tham hunger, sex or thirst, a need to
leave a thumbprint somewhere on the wored. A need for immortality a need to
write names on the birthday cakes.
The play seeks relatedness of all these things by isolating their correlatedness and
creating a man so superbly alone with his sense of not having to been touched
and ﬁnally knowing in his last extremity that the love which had always been in
the room was now found.

Though kleidescopic in its images, vagrant in locales and ﬁippant in time
sequence the central narrative moves swiftly with a unparralleled economy of
words and actions to its ﬁnal climax.

