Synopsis

Scene 1 : The East India Company establishes itself in Bengal and
proceeds to strangle indigenous Indian industry. The country is reduced to
a source of raw material for Britain. Glimpses of this exploitation are
presented here.
Scene 2 : Signs of revolt begin to appear. The Sanyasi rebellion signiﬁes
a new national conscrousness.

Scene 3 : The Sepoy Revolt of 1857. Popular uprising led by Rani of
Jhansi. Irnperialist power continues policy of suppression & tortLire.
Intellectuals come forward to a waken the masses.
Scene 4 : Proclamation of empire by Queen Victoria, a new period of
exploitation by feudal beneficiaries of British Sovereign.
Scene 5 : The scene portrays oppression and persecution by caste
Hindus and the exploitation of the situation by proselytising missions.

Scene 6 : The spread of English education, the creation of “a nation of
clerks”. Taking advantage of Hindu-Muslim dissension the British pursue
the policy of Divide and Rule to consolidate power.
Scene 7 : The First World War. Indian soldiers are sent to the front. At
home, the Indian people are suppressed. Gandhi, who returns from South
Africa, carries out non-violent movement in Champaran against taxation
of Indigo.

DA N C E RS

Scene 8 : The tragedy of Jalianwala Bagh. The people turn to Gandhi for
guidance.

Pr ab h a t , G i ri 5h , M a d h av , D assa n , Ni s he ker ,
Scene 9 : Lahore Congress 1929. Nehru as President moves a resolution
Satyawan, Brojen, Shatrujeet, Pratap, Mihir, Gopi,
on complete independence.
Prashant, Rahul, Gul, Radha, Baishali, Shruti,
Scene 10 : Era of struggle : 1932-42. Peasants refuse to pay taxes. Police
Nivedita. Padma, Subodhini, Lakhi, Savita.

C R E D ITS
C h e re o gra ph y
M u5 i c
De c 0 r
Ly ri c
S c ri p t
C o s t u me
Ligh t
Ba c k 5 t ao e

Prabhat Ganguli
Sushil Das Gupta
Bansi Kaul
Som Datt
Agneya
Gul Bardhan
S u cl e 5 h G a u r
B as h a ra t Khan.

repression and tyranny. The Quit India movement is launched in ’42. All
national leaders are jailed, leading to violent repercussions.
Scene 11 : The Bengal famine of ’43, not a natural calamity but

consequence of political manoeuvre and callousness.
Scene 12 : August ’47 : the culmination of British policy in partition of
India.
Scene 13 : 15 August 1947: anew nation celebrates independence after
centuries of struggle and sacrifice. The Union Jack is lowered and the
tricolour ,symbol of the country’s unity, dignity and freedom, hoisted in its
place.

