Why This Play ?
Basically being an actor, I had had occasion to direct plays in Delhi 8
Punjab. I used to think I belong to these two states only. On 12th of Oct., । had an
occasion to attend the speech addressed by the Honourable Prime Minister of the
country before the All India Vichar Munch of the All India Congress Committee (I). The
speech by the Prime Minister and other Members of the Vichar Munch had inspired me
to do something

constructive

for the country through the media of entertainment.

It

started hammering in my mind, how best I could do to promote communal harmony

in the country. 1 was quite at bay what to do for this great cause which is the
real need of the time in our country. I was given a script written by Mr. D. P.
Sinha entitled "MERE BHAI MERE DOST" more or less on the same subject. l went
through the script and without having a sleepless night came to dada with few suggestion

for

additon

and alteration

in the

script and

as

suggested and

guided,

।

immediately rushed to the author of the play Shri D. P. Sinha, who in turn had
agreed with my conception of the play and had agreed upon to make necessary addition
and alteration in the Script. Sleepless nights are yet to end until and unless । am
able to convey the message of communal harmony to whole of the country.

Now,

that I am not proud, but happy to confess that on the first occasion

when this play was staged at
most of the audience wanted
feature film. Now that I am
till the end of the play and

Shah Auditorium on 25th Nov., 1980, particularly when
to see the incomplete screening of “UPKAR” a Hindi
thankful to those audience who remained pindrop silent
at the bulk they came to convey that my artists have

been able to convey the message, which have so nicely been written by Shri ’ D. P.
Sinha, Secretary, Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi Administration. lam happy that every, artists conceiveness
thing had gone well alongwith 'my conception, Writer concept
and presentation of the play.
the same, on this occasion, and many more occasions to come in
future, I alongwith my artists are devoted and committed to serve the country ‘through
the media of entertainment in whatsoever from it might be.
I hope

H A R J E ET S l D H U
D i rector

