Conﬂict and other stories "
Ananda Lal
itﬂe Thespian and Padatik keep local Hindi theatre

alive with their new works, derived from American
originals. Reminiscentof Euripides’ antiwar The Tro—
jan WOmen, Jules ’I‘asca’s The Balkan Women, translated as
Balkan kiAuraten by Uma Jhunjhunwala, shows a chorus of
Bosnian women imprisoned in a Serbian camp (picture) during the ethnic conﬂicts of the 19905. As stated in the ﬂyer,
“Men are pitted against women, Christians against Muslims,” Serbs against Bosnians and, as guest director Mushtaq
Kak adds, “Man created war but it is the women who have to
pay a heavy price for it.” Although the context may seem distant from India, we cannot butthink of our own crises in
Kashmir or Manipur, especially knowingthat Kak comes
from Jammu.
Thus, the general relevance gains greater signiﬁcance for
us than the fact that ’I‘asca’s play hinges on a very simple plot
revelationlinking a Bosnian mother and daughter to the Serbian commandant.We welcome Sagar Sengupta in the latter’s
part for the realism with which he depicts a torn mind. In different ways, we see similar complex emotions in Jhunjhun—
- wala (the mother) and Azhar Alam (the ruthless Serbian
deputy who ﬁnally deserts), not surprising from such sea.
soned performers. Among errors, Little 'I‘hespian should replace “Croats” with Bosnians in the programme note and the
world map with one of Yugoslavia in the commandant’s ofﬁce, and the prelude from Pink Floyd’s “Time” with a less easily identifiable sound clip.
.
Janus and Padatik’s Safarnama braids six ten-minute
playlets by diverse hands from the anthology Take Ten, translated by Sanchayita Bhattacharjee, into an apparently single
travelogue of an actress encountering various people. This
concept almost succeeds in ingenuity, except that the sheer
stylistic disparity of the sources resists their enforced yoking, creating a disjointed feel. Director Mahmud Alam possibly recognizes it himself, acknowledging that he “put them together in no partiCular order.” However; he does unify the
scenes by using just a bench as furniture, recalling the motif

in Padatik’s DoAdmi Do Kursiyan.

‘

Christopher Durang’s Mrs Sorken, about a scatty lady introducing theatre to an audience, opens Safarnama with
wacky vim, but the five other authors don’t have his ﬁnesse,
the standard dropping markedly. Luckily, we have Bhattacharjee plaiting the six strands as the protagonist, preventing them from unravelling despite the incongruity in her
character from episode to episode. Opposite her, Pratigya
Ghosh does best as the lesbian propositioning her; and Sahir l
Siddiqui as the stranger she befriends on the ferris wheel.
J

