BAKI ITIHAS
Synopsis
The play opens with Basanti, a story writer, and
her husband, Sharadindu, a lecturer of Bengali
literature, arguing about unpaid electricity bills

and discussing different plans on how to spend
their Sunday They eventually decide to
improvise stories on a common subject—the
suicide of an acquaintance which has been

briefly reported in the newspaper Their
fictionalized versions of the suicide are enacted
in the first two acts of Baki Itihas.

Once the

versions are performed the husband and wife I

squabble over the relative merits of their
interpretations.
Suddenly, in the third act

Sharadindu

encounters a mysterious figure who introduces
himself as the dead Seetanath During the course
of the confrontation between the two men, it

becomes increasingly clear that seetanath is the
private self of Sharadindu that has been
suppressed. The confrontation becomes
traumatic for Sharadindu when Seetanath hands
him an album of pictures depicting the history

of oppression in the world from the building of
the pyramids and the persecution of the

>L/r

G0YA : Satum Devouring his Son,

Christians to more recent calamities of history

million people. They are all men... . Like you They

like Auschwitz, Hiroshima and Vietnam.

have all tried to live on some meaning or the other

When Sharadindu claims that he cannot
accept the history of mankind his private self
goads him to examine this history more
rigorously and not to forget it in his
preoccupation with academic and domestic

that they have given to life ”

concerns. Unable to face the burden of history,
Sharadindu asks the obvious question: “What

Listening to the tradition of oppression and
bestiality that he has inherited as a human being
Sharadindu laments the absurdity of his
existence.

Seetanath taunts him to commit

suicide, whereupon Sharadindu yells,
away Sharadindu.”
him

Go

Seetanath has to remind

l m Seetanath ”

can I do about it?” Seetanath answers coldly:
” You can’t do anything. I couldn’t do anything
Nobody can do anything. Oppressions, killings, riots,
wars-all these will continue. The man who is
satisfied with two meals a day will pierce another

preparing to commit suicide rather like the

man with a bayonet. The scientist who cannot hear

and a friend rushes into the room and jubilintly

the pain of an animal will create a weapon to kill a

informs Sharadindu that he has received a

Sharadindu goes through the motions of
fictional characters he and his wife had created

in the play’s first two acts The lights come on

