BADAL SIRCAR

Sircar went to England four years later. He
stayed there for two years working in the
mornings and studying for a diploma in town
planning in the evenings. After returning to India
for a spell he once again went abroad this time to
France in 1963-64 with a scholarship to study town
planning.
On his return to Calcutta, after a lapse of a

few months he went off to Nigeria in 1964 to work
for the Nigerian government in the Ibo country. It
is said that perhaps Sircar is the only town planner
who has seen his blue-print of a dream city take
shape and be destroyed before his eyes It was the
time of the Biafran war He returned to Calcutta
in 1967

Badal Sircar stands in the forefront of a new theatre
movement in India Both in form and content he
has moved away radically from what the
proscenium stage has to offer us today
While delivering the Azad Memorial Lecture,
1982, Sircar stated I can be taken as a prototype
of a particular class in a society at a particular
period Born in Calcutta in 1925, he belongs to
the middle—middle class to be specific He
describes Calcutta as ’a monster of a city, but a

monster that is alive, throbbing with vitality and
viciousness maybe vision too
Education to him is having gone through the
’English system of teaching mills The prototype
who is a ’middle class urban, educated Bengali’
makes a choice at a certain point of time that sets
him apart and makes him an individual His
choice is theatre At first it is only a pastime an
occupation for his leisure hours, but it gradually
acquires more and more importance in his life
There are three strands in Badal Sicar s life
which mesh well to give a striking texture to his

Thereafter he worked with Calcutta
Metropolitan Planning Organization and the
Comprehensive Area Development Corporation
He gave up his job with CADC in order to devote
his full time to theatre in 1977 In the ten years
between 1967-1977, he went abroad on two

occasions. He went on a tour of East European
countries in 1969 on a cultural exchange
programme. It was during this trip that he first
came in contact with Grotowski's production in
Poland. Then in 1972, he went to the USA with a
Jawaharlal Nehru Research Fellowship His thesis

was on workshop for a theatre of synthesis as a
rural-urban link. The subject encapsulates Sircar's
present attitudes in theatre
Although famous as a playwright all over
India, Sircar dismisses his contribution to theatre
writing lightly with the corrunent, I prefer doing

theatre to writing theatre Writing is quite laborious
for me

He claims that he started writing as a

matter of expediency

These strands are his professional career as an
urban planner plus his training as a civil engineer
his inner life as a playwright and its outward

Sircar who had always been reading a great
deal of dramatic literature since his youth, started
taking an active interest in theatre while he was
in Maithon. He started a rehearsal club with his
friends which gradually turned out full scale

expression in his role as a theatre director and

productions.

work and introduce a new value to Indian theatre

In those early Maithon days, though theatre

actor.

Sircar

passed

his

civil

engineering

examination in 1947, a little before India gained
her independence. His first job took him to
Maithon in the Damodar Valley complex in 1953.

started as an escape valve, a mere recreation, Sircar
felt terribly disappointed with the available plays.

These seemed to him turgid with melodrama and
sentimentality So he wrote plays for his own group

