Between 1956-60, he wrote four plays. They
were Solution X, Ram Sllyam [adu, Baropislzima and
Sllanibar. These were light, frothy, humorous plays.
They revealed Sircar’s uncanny ear for catching
the rhythm of everyday speech. During his two
years’ stay in England he saw a lot of plays from
Shakespeare to Joan Littlewood productions.

in form, but it involves a definite philosophy. In

his theatre live communication are the key words.
This communication can be four ways: performer
to spectator, performer to performer, spectator to

performer and spectator to spectator. The first two
forms of communication one is familiar with in

the proscenium stage. But he says in hsi Azad

With Evarn Indrajit, written in 1962, Sircar

Memorial Lecture: ’ ..... when we speak of the other

became famous in all the Indian theatre circles.
This play introduced in Sircar’s writing a profound
melancholy note. As far as playwriting goes, his
Nigerian sojourn proved the most productive.

two ways of communication we get panicky. We
think that the spectators communicating to the
performers or to other spectators would mean
chaos. And so it would if we assume that
communication is limited to language. The

During that period he wrote Baki Itihas, I’arey
Konodin, Jadi Aar Ek Baar, Pralap, Tringsha

Shatabdi, I’agla Ghoda.

attention of the spectator, concentration, the

reaction to the performance reflected in his facial
expression or the tension in his body - all these

It was from Tringsha Shatabdi onward that
the playwright’s attitudes underwent a further

can be feedbacks to the performer or to another

change. From the crisis of the individual, the

spectator.

sombre existentialism that coloured his plays till
then, he explored with a scathing irony the social,
economic and historical forces which were creating
crises in our society. After his return from Nigeria
in 1967, he established his theatre group Satabdi.
In the beginning, Satabdi would perform both on
and off the proscenium. Between 1972-74, Satabdi

.....This is an intimate theatre.....the language
of this theatre involves being within and
experiencing, not viewing and hearing from a

performed at Angan Manch. This was a small

second floor room at the Academy of Fine Arts
seating some 70 - 100 persons. Eventually he was
forced to leave this venue. In 1973, members of

Satabdi passed a resolution and left proscenium
theatre permanently and concentrated on direct
communication with the spectators. During his trip
to the USA Sircar’s concepts of theatre were
particularly influenced by Richard Schechner’s
Environmental Theatre and Julian Beck's Living
Theatre.

separate sanctum at a distance.’

What he wishes to communicate through his
theatre are clearcut facts, concrete truths about

what is happening in the villages at the grassroots level, the nature of exploitation both
industrial and agricultural, the urban stranglehold

on the rural economy. He feels that his first
mission is to make people aware.
In his work as a planner he observed that
there is a lot around him that he did not like, that

he would like to change for something better.
Sometimes one gets a glimpse in his plays as to
what shape the changed society would take. But
he hesitates to lay down any clear guidelines as
to what form this process of change must take nor

Not only did Satabdi, under Sircar's
leadership, reject the proscenium, but also
dispensed with such artificial aids as elaborate

does he wish to say that the revolution has already
taken place in the countryside. He does not wish
to create new myths in place of the old. He prefers

costumes, props, make-up, lights, and sound.

to raise the consciousness and create awareness of

Instead the group relied on an intimate

the issues.
In order to meet the demands made by the
new thrust in his theatre he started writing a new
set of plays like l’rocession(Michhil), Bhoma and

environment, the strength of the message

conveyed through physical acting and considerable
use of chants, non-verbal sounds and alternative

mu sic.
Sircar explains, time and again, that his new

language of theatre is not a matter of experiment

Stale News(Basi Khabar).
(Iilla I)utt in her introduction to Three Plays by liadal Sircar.
Courtesy: Seagull Books, Calcutta)

