है::,

Press Commenis
1९8३०11३11३0 100111180 of native
legends and ballads of

theatre in the state.

Manipur to acquaint

It mostly

selects

the people with its

themes from

glorious past and

inspire them to do noble 1 and brave deeds. 'At the same time it encourages the new
theatre movement.
The- ballad was sung by tha Wangoo Khongnang, who was the minstrel of late
Mahhraja Bodhchandra.

It was a thrilling experience to hear him.

The entire cast displayed hig‘iacting standard. SanayaimaNingtherncha as Khuman
Chair a Moireng Ngamba, Mohendra Ningthouja as Heirem Kangbishu, Lil'abanta

Ghbbun‘gbatn as Shikhong Lal‘haba and Binata Leurembam Chanu as Leima Nammun
Kha’nbi gave excellent performance.
Diwan Sing-h Bajeli

RESISTANCE JANUARY,

13—1982.

Khuman Chakha Moireng Ngamba or Theatre as entertainment,

1

३

By—e Th Iarunkumar

With a cast of 43 and a theme revolving round the interplay Of nobility, deceit
and¸ revenge, Aryan Theatre’s ‘Khuman Chakha Moireng Ngamba” is clearly Intended 11

’to’be Ia- thiatrespec‘tatnlar.

It is no mean achievement that the performers achieve What .

they set out to do But it is also clearly a spectacular theatre WIth a diﬁ’erence For, ३
the effects are obtained neither by crowding the stage with performers and props nor

by investing any one bf the CharactersWith epic dimensions. The Itﬂ'eeiv‘tsf ﬂow from a ‘

hlappybIending of form and content Dance, music and folk rituals merge artlessly into
.
”thetheme to produce a visual and aural feast.
Aryan Theatres enactment of the story sticks faithfully to the balladversron of the

legend of Khuman Chakha Moireng Ngamba. KhumanOrder is rudely shattered when the .
rising Heirem tribe challenges the Khumans on their own turf. Ihe eﬂ'ete Khuman braves

"hd'Wever‘diead to pick up the gauntlet. The anguish and despair of the Khuman king, Adon
Puﬁshiba

asherealizes the helplessness of the Khumans has rings of modern man’s …

existential angst.
1 When Nammun Khanbi, Chakha Moireng Ngamba’s wife, demands revenge for the

1188111३ 1 of her husband the Khum an nobles once again shirks 'reponsiblity ' by ﬁnding
faultuvvith'Chakha Moirang Ngamba, the only man who volunteered to retrieve Khuman ho.
hour and died in the duel with Kangbishu. Both situations has strong contemporary releven'ce.

..... The fast pace, the turns and twists of the story and the
Tying lehOreography ensures ' that the play is not " only ' ﬁrSt-elass
also a" thingof beauty as well. The spirited performance from the 40-odd
deserve mention. Sanayaima as Khuman Chakha Moireng Ngamt‘a

aesthetically fsatisentertainment but .1
actors and actresses
was'a credible per-

218०1३1111८३8३१1०11 or innate nobility ३ and courage. BinOta ‘ also literally puts her heart into the
demanding? role of Namman ‘Khambi. All said and done, however it is - more 'of a
directior’s play'then an actor‘s.

