CONTEMPORARY INDIAN THEATRE :
SOME THOUGHTS
Ananda Lal
I was very happy to hear Aryan Theatre is celebrating its diamond jubilee, and I would like
to join the Indian theatre fraternity in congratulating Aryan for attaining this landmark. This is not mere
pOliteness, but spoken from the historian’s perspective; for it is not often that a theatre company in modern India has lasted out sixty years. For instance, in Calcutta, where I live, not one single theatre group or
company has been around for as long as Aryan has. As a Calcuttan and Indian, therefore, I genuinely
respect what Aryan has been able to achieve in the world of theatre.
My friends in Aryan Theatre have requested me to assess the state of contemporary Indian theatre
for their souvenir. About a year ago, I wrote an editorial for a forthcoming book (Rasa, Calcutta: Anamika
Kala Sangam) which addressed this very subject. I hope readers will not mind if repeat the points I made
there, since I do not have anything particularly new to contribute on this matter!

The term “Indian theatre” is so simplistic that it is a misnomer. There is no such hornogenous entity,
even if we apply the apparently obvious principle of classifying all theatre within the borders of sovereign
India as “Indian” in the contemporary context. By such a delimitation, what happens to the remarkably
large Indian diaspora? Many Indians settled abroad still tend to socialize exclusively with members of
their own community, regularly putting together cultural performances of variable proficiency, much of
which is more readily identiﬁable as “Indian” than as belonging to the American or British or Arabic
traditions where they take place geographically. More academically speaking, no analysis of contemporary Indian theatre can afford to ignore the profound Indian inﬂuence on world theatre —— as in the eclectic
inter cultural work of Peter Brook or Jerzy Grotowski, to name just two living legends who have come to
India, or in the cross-cultural experience of directors such as Vijaya Mehata, when they take an Indian
production tour internationally or stage an Indian text using a European cast. Critiquing the methodology
of foreigners coming to India to research theatre and publishing their often erroneous findings in respected journals or reference works which perpetuate their misinformation and misconceptions forms
another area demanding serious enquiry today. All these belong within the ever-widening scope of “Indian” theatre.

Even in India, one wonders if there is any such thing as a distinctively “Indian” theatrical language
or Style which can -- tor instance -- be distinguished from Bangladeshi, Nepali , Pakistani or Srilankan
theatre. A real problem has arisen in Indian culture recently, of unconsciously discussing and writing
about urban theatre as if it is the only sophisticated variety of theatrical expression worthy of attention.

Many writers habitually ignore the authentic folk forms, apparently oblivious of the fact that their own
City-centric theatre represents the artistic impulses of a minority ( albeit powerful ) of the Indian popula—

tion, whose productions mostly never reach, nor have relevance for, the rural majority. On the other hand,
practitioners have bent over backwards to create “folk-based” performances that appropriate the tech-

niques of traditional forms in a self-righteous and self-conscious search for the “roots” which merely
betrays their own poverty of imagination while producing ersatz populist idioms which do well abroad
due to their colourful, exotic otherness. How typically “Indian” are these spectacles, one may justifiably

