3
lowed him? Only an educational bedrock can lead to greater participat
ion and recognition of the medium
in the national ﬂow. But, realistically speaking, this is not likely to happ
en soon in bureaucratic setup like
ours, even though the National School of Drama, having realized the un
fairness of Hindi-language base,
promises to open regional centres. At present, one can only work from
within: university departments of
literature must encourage academic research into theatrical topics, an
d the media must give theatre sufﬁ-

cient coverage to raise public consciousness. One is shocked by the abys
mal level of dramatic criticism in
our major news papers; it seems that anyone with a BA in a Humanities su
bject is qualiﬁed to become a
drama critic. Editors must not treat the arts as “soft stories”, but make su
re that only those people knowledgeable and practically experienced in these disciplines write reviews an
d articles on them. Unless all
these attitudinal changes occur, theatre audiences will dwindle further, as
more and more playgoers defect
en rnasse to the silver screen.
If the Government really believed in propagating unity in diversity, it woul
d have arranged for a
plan by which seminal dramatic texts in Indian languages are translated into al
l other Indian languages,
Not for nothing is India called a subcontinent -- she has as many literary la
nguages as western Europe,
therefore an equal number of rich dramatic literatures. Translation is the on
ly means by which understanding another Indian community or culture can be achieved, but the
Government, as in other matters, I

has failed to identify this need. One must emphasize that “Indian theatre”
is a clearly heterogenous body
composed of widely disparate constituents, and that no general critique can pres
ume to speak for all parts
of the country. Only through an awareness of this decentralized activity can w
e dare to speak on a “national” level. We rnust know about the different theatrical conditions in every re
gion, from which we have
much to learn. Every state has its speciﬁc theatrical problems and some have ev
en found solutions which
theatre workers elsewhere could apply fruitfully. But we have yet to organize oursel
ves.

True realisation has to do more than just malee reality recognizable
in the theatre. One has to be able to see through it too. One has to be able to
see the laws that decide how the processes oflr'fe develop.
-- Bertolt Brecht

