GLIMPSES OF THE MANIPURI
CONTEMPORARY THEATRE (1970-92)
Lokendra Arambam

The distinctive identity of the regional theatre of Manipur was perhaps shaped by the ch
anges that
took place in the last twenty five years of the state’s contemporary history. The tran
sformation that was
effected in the character and physical shape of the alternative theatre were fa
ll-outs from the overall
changes with the advent of a Manipuri middle class, growth of social and politi
cal aspirations leading to
regional and ethnic identiﬁcation movements, and development of an urba
n elite supposedly freed from
traditional mores. Yet the character of the regional theatre as developed
during this quarter of a century
revealed ﬂashes of brilliance in form and structure, idioms and expr
essions, without however a corresponding confrontation with the dynamics of life that gave its birt
h. The evolution of the contemporary
theatre of Manipur therefore reﬂected contradictions in itself,
contradictions posed by the ontological
transformation in the creative life of its stalwarts, yet unable to
grapple with the problems of a traditional
society coming to terms with processes of change and moderniz
ation. Manipur theatre in 1992 is in the
threshold of an abiding change, yet the directions of change st
ill seems uncertain and unsure, which lends
the processes of its evolution certain poignancy and pathos.
The secular, modern drama of the Imphal urbanite
became predominant in the late sixties, though
the father figure of QC. Tongbra dominated the mult
iple scene structures of the unchanging proscenium.
Since his emergence as a humorous, satire master in
1937 under his banner of the Society Theatre, G.C.
Tongbra dealt with basic human behaviour, and hi
s play productions followed the old pattern of var
i
e
t
y of
scenes and spaces,

where the relations of his characters were strung ou
t with a continuous outpourings of
his witty phrases, that the inner action of the plays
hardly moved before the very virtuosity of his lan
g
u
age
and folkish humour. With more than eighty play
s to his credit, and his plays often getting into
c
l
a
s
hes with
the establishment, G.C. Tongbr

a almost single handedly built up his own
genre and became and institution unto himself in the sixties and seventies.

values in the process. For quite sometime,

a new image of Manipur youth as depicte

d in Mohan of ‘ Judge
Saheb Ki Imung’ (Family of Judge Saheb
), or Ruhikanta in ‘ Dasa’ (Misfortune,
1
968), focused on a
generation o

f searching, probing youth, unable to pl
ace their distinctive identities amidst th
e rush for the

