5
society, had however lost its own identity, when the youth itself became a fearsome, violent setters of
public standards and morals in the late eighties. This picture of youth on the threshold of change in their
social physiognomy and character was also lost in the latter dramas of the regional theatre era. However,

the young poet Sri Biren was to upset the scheme of things with his feverish iconoclastic poetry in the "
seventies.
During the late sixties, before the emergence of the alternative theatre, three standing theatre groups

led the proscenium theatre movement — M .D.U. , Ruprnahal and the Aryan Theatre. The old generation of
theatre workers continued to dominate in M.D.U. and Rupmahal, with traditional feudal authority, while
the old mixed with the young generation of teachers and students in the poorer milieu of Aryan theatre.

M.D.U.’s character was succulent melodramas, material expansion in the physical image of the stage,
enlargement of the cast (most productions had more than 40 artistes on stage), maximum display of

painted decor, sets and scenes from the exotic paint R.K.C.S. Wheeled platforms with characters and
props framed outside were pushed into the stage, effect projectors and commercial lighting probing for
multiple exhibition of ﬂashy, dazzling patterns in consonance with the advent of colour effects on ﬁlms.
The dramatic unfoldments were on the grand old design, with slow, almost turtle—paced development of
scenes -rnost sequences embellished sentiment with old values pertaining to separation of good from evil.
Large lumpen audiences grew with the massive productions. Charity abounded.
Ruprnahal , in the heart of the Imphal town, with a slight difference in production style and acting
techniques ﬂourished. The genre was however melodrama. The pattern of near-classical acting set by
veteran actors like Nabakanta, with slow measured tones and movement, dialogues pungent with reﬂections of arrogance, pride and self-boast of Manipur’s traditional nobility - not much of intellectually
probing dialogues, but ernbellishing tensions and attitudes, not establishing thought structures, but caressing already existing and cherished behaviour, ﬁnally exploding into passion and violence on the stage.
The nuances of social feeling, the ethnic love for petriotic sentiments were reﬂected by its magnum opus
‘B ir Tikendraj it’ (1951), which by 1966, had effected its hundredth show. A theme of the tragic war where
the patriots Tikendrajit and Thangal were hanged in 1891 initially developed by a silent playwright
Sougaijam B iren was turned into a successful melodramatic script by the late M. Bira (Rupmahal does not
recognise Biren’s contribution). Sentimentalism, and ritual observance of the above event, growth of an

urban market and the haunting escape atmosphere in the bazaar, with a lurnpen audience more from the
rural areas filling the Saturday afternoon shows -Rupmahal dominated the commercial mainstream of
Manipuri drama.
The Aryan Theatre on the other hand witnessed the dynamics of change, conservatism and conﬂict
played out in its architectually seductive, petite and graceful proscenium constructed in 1945. Part of the
history of architecture by now, the soft somnambulant stage and auditorium pressed by a dwindling economy

in the municipally eroded facility, the Aryan Theatre produced the largest number of native playwriters
with more than 110 volumes of plays since 1935 to 1977. The seventies were a period of feverish activity.
Students of the fifties, but teachers by the late sixties, the young generation of theatre workers led by men

like A. Sornorendra, A. Shyarn Sharma, G. Ravindra Shanna, etc. worked under the leadership of the
great thespian, stage craftsman and writer M. Biramangol and produced innovative constructs which
became a spring board for a new movement, ‘Nefa Ki Ek Shaam (1968)’ was perhaps a translated play of
vital energy and realism. But Sri Biren’s ‘Khongchat ( 1970)’ was to. begin the intellectual movement in
modern Manipur theatre, and Sri Biren’s feverish dramatic poetry of the loss of identity began the cerebral quest for the alternative theatre.

