As also the social and demographic ﬁrmament, restlessness and anxiety provoked the entire mood
of Manipur in the late sixties. There were agitation for statehood in the sixties, and youth unrest due to
famine and neglect in 1965 led to death of a girl student from police ﬁring. The Pan Manipuri Youth
League (1968) led the resurgence of youth from the front, and underground revolutionaries surfaced in
1974. In the realm of the arts, change in the characters of the cultural movement were also featured in the
seventies. The Manipur State Kala Akademi was established in 1972 as a composite version of the three
National Akadernis, and it started a conscious patronage of Manipuri theatre. One year earlier, the literary
and cultural institutions took an active role in the overall yearning for change. The Cultural Forum, a
literary group of urban Irnphalites organized short play competitions as an academic activity, and from
1971 to 1975, ﬁve annual experimental short play competitions were organized, the venue mostly being
at the Aryan Theatre. There was then the active participation of G. C. Tongbra’s Society Theatre, Kanhailal’s

Kalakshetra, the Aryan Theatre, the late P. Shamu’s Theatre Mirror Dramatic Society and a host of other
groups. The new academic activity was slightly different from the theatre festivals that had come into
being since the inception of the Theatre Centre in 1955 under the auspices of Kamla Devi Chattopadhyay
and the Bharatiya Natya Sangh and also the other annual drama festivals organized by the Publicity
Department. For the earlier festivals were a pleasurable coming together of groups of the existing productions, whereas in the short play competitions, there was the quest for form and innovative exercises of
individual creations. The era of those feverish plays like Aryan Theatre’s ‘Hallakpa (1971)’, Society
Theatre’s ‘Tajmahal (1972)’, Kalakshetra’s ‘Kabui Keioiba (1973)’, P. Shamu’s ‘Saknaidraba
Waree
(1972)’, were open in outlook and generative of new aesthetics. There was fresh winds of
change in the
shape of the new theatre. Manipur theatre was now thirsting for freedom.

The establishment of the Akademi and hosting of a theatre festival with the pa
rticipation of Bengal ’s Satabdi marked a new development. Though the impact of Evam Indraj
it was felt only in the literati,
Badal Sircar’s workshop and production of ‘Spartacus’ (1973), were more
in tune with the spirit of change
and revolt in the arts and politics. It encouraged its theatre workers to be
rid of inhibiting inﬂuences of the
ﬁxed proscenium, and ﬂexible open structured theatre idioms, ph
ysically more exact and demanding
became the norm. Kanahailal led the new movement in the discovery
of the body and its language, with
earlier experiments with ‘Devjani’ and ‘Ikhoulangbi’ (1969,1971),
and more particularly ‘Tarnnalai’ (1972),
to his credit

, Kanhailal’s association with Badal Sircar led to his
own evolution as an artiste of the new
body medium. His plays ‘Khomdon Meiroubi’ (1974)
, ‘ Imphal 73’ (1974) and ‘Pebet’ (1975) led the

ﬁeld with ﬂuid, playful movements, and striking stark
images of the spirit in revolt and the anguish of the
generation was reﬂected on to the stage. His Aryan
Theatre colleague Lokendra Arambam did political
th
eatre with ‘Men Without Shadows’ (1972), ‘ 1891
’ (1975) and the documentary drama of the pole
tarian

revolutionary ‘ Irabot’ in 1976. By 1976, Rattan Thiy
am with his Chorus Repertory Thea

tre ushered in the

new folk medium with ‘Sanrembi Chaisra’ (1976), a blend of pun
gent humour, pageantry and spectacle.

