8
(Dec. 20-31,1992) revealed interesting perspectives on the strength and weaknesses of the alternative
theatre.

From the school of the total theatre of Rattan 'I‘hiyani , in the stylized way of heightened, .loud
speech and action, colour, music, spectacle and salubrious effects, whose crystal parts were dazzlmgly
integrated into the unfolding presentation, and which had to be executed in utmost precmon and exactitude, two young directors S.K. Mangang and L. Dorendra have emerged on the scene. S.K. Mangang
have worked with Rattan, helped found the Chorus Repertory Theatre, but is now independently producing plays for two or three groups, the most notable being the Apunba Saktarn Artistes Association, from
the northern side of Imphal. S.K. Mangang’s forte too is loud speech and action, a variety ofjudiciously
mixed dance, music and martial arts, arapid unfoldment, quick and light movements interspersed with
silences, a vigorous crescendo of drums and a desire to reach out with the vibrancy of ethnic nuances. His

recent play (Pharnbal Kaaba, 1992) premiered at the MSKA Festival, based on the deep philosophy of the
non-Hindu Meitei religion, humanized in a story line of the struggle for the throne between two creator
brothers Aseeba and Pakhangba, with complex role by the eternal mother Leirnarel, reverberated with the
magic of movement, balletic action and raw violence.

On the other side, in the continuing tradition of the Indian theatre fondly cherished by Rattan, his
other junior colleague L. Dorendra worked with a consistent performance group Cosmopolitan Dramatic
Union in the Southeastern side of Imphal, and had thrown up deeply motivating pieces, the recent one
being an extract from the Mahabharatas - Draupadi (1992), from the pen of a sensitive young playwright
Kshetri Sanajaoba, Dorendra was deeply concerned with the female responsibility for human conflicts in
a story society dominated by men and the anguish and suffering of the mother Kunti was bequeathed to
the newly married Draupadi, and the resultant unfoldrnent of the humiliation, indignity heaped on the
latter was simultaneously received in a continuous emotional chain by mother, daughter-in-law
and maid

servant all in the same principle of agonized womanhood. The disrobing of Draupadi, which
any director
would attempt as a theatrical challenge, was intriguingly avoided, only to be visually
re-enacted in the
newly added scene of the oppression of the maid servant. Dorendra had not gone in for
theatric visuals as
does his mentor, his forte is the use of the actor, for words for enactment of
conflict, with rare choice use

of the much vaunted Chorus. Rigour is his Style.

Senior to the above two directors, there is Wareppa Naba, a recipi
ent of the Manipur State Kala
Akaderni award for theatre quite young in his theatre career. Warepp
a Naba began his theatre life as a
junior colleague to the late P. Shamu of the Theatre Mirror Dramatic
Society, who along with Sri Biren
introduced the absurdist view of playwriting in Manipur. Nab
a had been dabbling with traditional forms
in order to project his late mentor’s vision of life, and it ha
s thrown up contradictions as to whether
exoticity and rnellifluosness of his style would suitably pr
oject the existential futility of what the late 1’.

Sharnu saw. "I‘heatre Mirror Dramatic Society however continues to
throw up plays with vigour, though
Wi
th a nagging doubt about Naba’s own depth of vision and cons
istency.

Keithel (1987), and since then he had mounted four pr
oductions, all of them in a consistent level of
productive 1ngenu1ty. A. Samarendra’s plays of Sakh
angkhidraba Lamnee (1990), Chingnungee 'I‘hawai
(1991) and recently Nong 'I‘arak-le (1992) wer
e seductive pieces of theatrical metaphors. T
h
e
last named
play, premiered at the MSKA Festival provided a
poignant refrain on contemporary anxieties out o
f
t
h
e
revolutionary ferment and its impact on innocent rural life
.

