THEATRE THAT SITUATES IN THE CONTEXT
Dr. Nongthombam Premchand
Exposures Manipuri theatre had experienced in the 1980’s in the national and international scenario
were so unprecedented and at the same time so traumatic that now we need to have a rethinking or a soulsearching and look back to the borne-front where a spate of colonial festival culture has eroded the fabrics
of our tradition.This was a decade when slices from our performance traditions were indiscriminately
used in play—productions obviously to meet commercial ends. What changes in semantic value or what
context-based meaningful communication were aimed at when performed within a framework consist of
the bearers of the same tradition were never questioned. In fact, theatre escaped from the realities of life
characterising an acute disparity between text and reality. Surprisingly, the crisis prominently featured in
literature, literary criticism and other creative works of art and life. The few which seemed to be in touch
with the reality also did not go beyond a photographic representation of visuals and emotions.

The Point of Departure
Now, our primary concern is how to situate the Manipuri theatrein a culture~speciﬁc context and
establish an umbilical relationship with the particular group of people. We do not need to deal with an
idealized context. We deal with the living people and their world. This effort to ﬁnd out a means of
relating to the people in a meaningful level demands for a new experimental production process and also
demands for a few changes in the paradigms of performance. The dichotomy between process and production which we ﬁnd in general is to be reduced to a meaningful level and make maximum use of the
performers’. time and energy in establishing an active interaction with the speciﬁc group of people. There
will be a dialectic between learning and performing. The performers learn through the performance process and the people learn through the performance. Theatre is not a showpiece meant only for a handful of
ticket-buyers. It can also be an active culture done in an organised process. It is also a platform for the
establishment of understanding and a rational outlook through lively interactions, exchange of views and
ideas, and through intimate encounters among human beings.
The Sense of Performance

The vast repertoire of folk tales, riddles, proverbs, images, narratives and ritual performances have
shown that non-naturalistic representation is highly stimulating and immediate in its mode of communication. They can leave lasting impressions upon the receivers. They do not communicate through the
usual or autornatized techniques of communication (e.g. naturalistic communication common in illusionistic dramatic performances), but they communicate to us through a non-naturalistic kind of differentiation thereby drawing our attention not to the externality but to the ideology it incorporates. This kind of
non-naturalistic representation encourages the audience to the habit of a critical thinking.
We have tales of long-handed ogress, of half-man and half-tiger, of a human being transformed into
bird and escaping into freedom, etc. We have images of goddesses with four hands or more, lion—like
ﬁgure with a single horn and snake ﬁgure in multiple motifs. Riddles and proverbs are performed in
intimate sessions of two or more people and communicated through a means of estranging the signifying
pI’OCe S S .

