14
In order to meet the demands of our theatre we took liberty of the text. Firstly, we attempted to
establish an organic relationship between the sub-theme and the main theme. Secondly, the play was

overwhelmingly carried by the relationship of love and a narrative highly characteristic of radio-drama.
These two elements heightened the emotional quality of the play and at the same time these elements
clouded the political signiﬁcance inherent in the play. So, we had to restructure the play to curtail the

overtone of emotion and bring out the rational quality. 'I‘hirdly,we felt the play was dealing superﬁcially
with the contemporary issue and it did not steer to bring out the deep-lying structures of social and
political realities of the contemporary life of the valley people.

So, in our attempt to free the play from idealization the broken relationship of love between Thoiba
and Chingkheilembi came to be an outcome of the changing value system of the present society, an
outcome of the decaying communal solidarity which once held the Meitei people together through a
continuous performance of Laiharaoba. The tensions of the society came to be structurally related to the
psychic tension of Chingkheilembi who now was searching for the ideals of Thoiba she once misunderstood during her prime of life. The entire play came out to be a r'ewinding of her memories, an unfolding
of her dreams and fantasies in the course of which the tensions prevailing in the society were acted out. To
create a dramatic dimension and to heighten the ideology and to situate the production more ﬁrmly in the
context of the Meiteis we used their beliefs, symbols, movements and inspirations from their rituals as
frame of reference.

CHINGNUNG-GI THAWAI (1991) was also based on a written play by A. Sornorendra. 1t dealt
with an ethnic movement of Zeliangrong community in the 'I‘amenglong area about 170 kms. away in the
west of Irnphal. The production team could not go to Tamenglong and take up ethnographic study of the
people and their movement in the right context as the team had some ﬁnancial constraints and other
hurdles. However, we talked to them when they came to Irnphal and also to the scholars of
their own

community who were well-versed in the history of the movement and the lores of the community.
In the
process we came to know that the movement had been misunderstood by the Meiteis in particula
r and that
this misunderstanding stemmed from a British policy of ‘divide and rule’ during
the colonial period.
Further, we came to know that many elements had also helped in distorting
the real picture of the ethnic
movement in their interests.

So, we were confronted with a challenge for putting the movement
in the perspective we thought

right and appropriate so that the true picture came up and help in washing
out the unnecessary historical
tension still prevailing as a legacy of the colonial rule. We took libert
y of the written text in order to bring
in the ideas came up in the research. We used ethnic music and dance
in the play. We also used such nontraditional elements like a wheelchair, microphone and national ﬂag
to enhance the interpretation.
Thus, once we are free from the usual or autornatized mode o
f signifying process conditioned in our
mind because of the literate background in which we were
brought up, once we are free from the imposi-

tion of the written text and the authority of the playwrig

ht the theatre makers can dwell in the magic world

of performance where living qualities of the thea
tre and the importance of the physical immedi
a
c
y
o
f
theatre become more prominent.

