OZV THE S TA GE
Tarun Roy
Born in 1928 at Calcutta.

Even from boyhood had keen interest in theatre.

student at college directed number of plays and also appeared in important roles.

As a

The plays

‘Bondage and Freedom’ & ‘Harmony’, which he wrote in his student-life, was staged at the
ﬁrst Inter-Collegiate Drama in the Calcutta University. ‘Light that shone in Darkness’—based
on the life and teachings of Lord Buddha-followed and was staged at New Empire before a
distinguished audience including Prime Minister Nehru with commendable success.

In 1948 he founded Jatiya Natya Parishad—a Club theatre—and produced with success
one after another his own plays—‘Rhythm of Music’ ‘Rupkatha’, ‘In the kingdom of Learned
Jackal’ & ‘Problem’ ( in Hindi ).

His reputation, however, reached its

climax

by

his

well-conceived drarnatisation and presentation of Tagore’s ‘Hungry Stone’.
During l952-53 he was away in England to equip himself with the latest techniques
of theatre art. At that time he produced two famous Tagore plays—‘Sacriﬁce’ & ‘Post Oﬂice’
at the Festival of International Plays at Irving Theatre of West End, London. with high
commendation.
On his return, he cherised the idea of establishing an intimate theatre to launch drama
movement, which took shape in the form of Theatre Centre—an afﬁliated body to the
International Theatre Institute of UNESCO.

Since then he achieved success after success not only as an actor-producer but as a
playwright of outstanding merit. Under the pen-name of Dhananjoy Bairagi, Sri Roy has

written a number of plays, and to name some of them are——‘Dhritarashtra’, ‘Rupoli Chand’,
‘Ek Pashla Bristi’, etc.

His debut in the professional theatre in 1959 at Rungmahal Theatre, where he appeared
as playwright-producer-actor by presenting ‘Ek Mutho Akash’ and ‘Ek Peyala Coﬂee’, was
remarkable.

There

after,

Sri

Roy produced his

own plays—‘Aar Habena Deri’ and

‘Rajanigandha’ at Theatre Centre and they were highly acclaimed by the press and discriminating
play-goers. Another feather was added to his cap when he ably dramatised and brilliantly

produced Sri Dilip Kumar Roy’s ‘Aghatan Ajo Ghate’ at Theatre Centre.

Afterwards, he not

only produced his own plays—‘Sainik’, ‘Lebedeff’, ‘Nishachar’, ‘Agantuk’ ‘Mukhosher
Aarale’,
etc. in different professional theatres in town but also of other distinguished playwr
ights.
___-__…स्का

Space kindly Donated by :—

Messrs. BHARAT CARRIERS.
TRANSPORTERS AND GOVT. CONTRACTORS.

Kharagpu r—D u rgapu r
ष्णझ

-५-

