Sri Roy’s recent socio-political play—'Parajita Nayak’, now being regularly performed

at

Theatre Centre, has drawn spontaneous applanse from the press and audience as well.
Sri Roy, though well-known to the theatre world, has also established himself as a
novelist to the readers of Bengali literature.

Dipanwita Roy
A cousin of Sri Dilip Kumar Roy, From childhood had a keen interest in music and
dance. She, as a child artist, appeared in many musical plays—specially as a dancer. She
had her training in dance under Sarbasri Kelu Nair, Atarnba Singha, Mani Bardhan and
Manishankar. As a student of B. Sc. (Hons) at Seottish Church College, she had the privilege of
representing her college in the Inter-Collegiate droma in 1947 and appeared in the role of

Maya in the play ‘Bandhan O Mukti’ directed by Sri Tarun Roy. Later She joined
Jatiya Natya Parished and made appearances with success in the plays—Hungry Stone
& ‘Kumar Sambhabarn !

Sm.

Roy is one of the founders of Theatre Centr and has heen in its Executive Body.
In the plays produced by Mukhos’h she appeared in the leading female roles, viz. as Shanta in
‘Dhritarashtra’ and as Sabitri in ‘Rupoli Chand’ and was responsible for their dance
compositions.

While in Europe in 1958 she had undertaken specialised lessons in stage make-up and
voice training in London.
On her return back to Calcutta, she joined Rungrnahal Theatre in 1959 and appeared

as Chitra in ‘Ek Peyala Coﬁ'ee’. Her ﬁne acting as Asha Chaudhury in the play Rajanigandha’
received high appreciation from the press and public. Ever since she appeared in the leading
roles in the plays produced and directed by Sri Tarun Roy at different professional theatres in
town. Besides her acting assigurnents, she did ably compose some dance sequences in some
of the plays. As the heroine in the play ‘Parajita Nayak’—currently performed regularly at
at Theatre Centre—she excelled her post glories and was warmly praised by the press and
discriminating play-goers.

In personal life, she is the wife of Sri Tarun Roy

Debrai Roy
Born in Calcutta in the year 1954.
Theatre at an early age.

Environs helped him develop a keen interest in

Although appeared on stage in some amateur productions, his debut

in theatre world through the play ‘Kencho Khurte Saap’ at Theatre Centre was marked with
great promise. A successfully acted role in ‘Mukhosher Arale’ followed. His talent was soon

recognised by no less a personality than Sri Satyajit Ray who gave him (Debraj) an assignment
in his latest ﬁlm ‘Pratidwandi’. He is also an A LR. artist.
This year he has appeared in the Higher Secondary Examination.

the worthy son of Sri Tarun Roy & Srimati Dipanwita Roy.

In personal life, he is

