SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORMING ARTS
SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORM | NC ARTS g rew out of what was orig i nal ly known
as Indian National Theatre, heralding a revival in the Indian Cultural scene. Shri
Ram Centre is one of the leading Cultural Organisation in India and has all along
been striving hard to nurture and develop talent in the field of Performing Arts
and our programmes are organised to achieve this end.
S R C THEATRE REPERTORY COMPANY
In l980 the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre Repertory
Company, the aim being to produce meaningful plays by well known play-

wrights to create an involvement with theatre amongst theatre lovers. Besides
performing regularly in Delhi, SRC Repertory undertakes trips to other parts of
the country as well. Our Repertory Company has the honour of working with
eminent Directors like Rajendra Nath, Ranjit Kapoor, B.V. Karanth, Habib Tanvir,
B.M.Shah, Bansi Koul, Piyush Mishra, Suresh Sharma, Roysten Abel, Sanjay

U p ad hyay , Ba p i Bose, Avta r S a h n i , C h i tta ra nj a n T r i p at h i , U rm i | K u m a r T h a p l i ya I &
M u s h taq Ka k .

ACTI N C COURSE
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programmes. The 1 st year is devoted to
in-depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the 2 nd year the basic theatre skills
learnt are integrated into production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western
and modern-lndian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of actors
to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future. Students who complete the course with
exellent grades are either absorbed by our Repertory orjoin the National School
of Drama or the Media.
5 R C CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP
To inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage of India, particularly
amongst younger generations, SRC has been organizing production oriented
Children Theatre Workshop every year and this endeavour has been widely
welcomed by one and all, including media.

(:55! -— 38 l l

