"Of all the performances of Indian dancing
we have seen in Paris, Mrinalini Sarabhai's
seems the most authentic.
Mrinalini Sarabhai‘s hands are particularly
eloquent. They are

flowers,

or

birds, or

lotuses. They tell the story of the love of
the fair Radha and the God Krishna, of
games on the river—banks in the cool of
the evening.
With her company of dancers, both women and mcn~among them the famous
Panicker, Mrinalini Sarabhai's performance
is superbly graceful. In the age of the
“Lunik”, it is almost as if this were one
of the last fairy—tales which is left to us."
"Paris Jaur" Jean Silvant
Switzerland :
“What a recital ! What splendour! Moreover the reputation of Mrinalini Sarabhai,
great artist that she is, precedes her whereevcr she goes whether in Asia, Europe or

the two Americas. She is not satisﬁed just
with dancing, she gives expression to the
dance. In the purity and restraint of her
actions and gestures, she sums up the
whole of the art of dancing.
In Chathunni Panicker, she has a partner
who measures up to her own standards. He
is, at one and the same time, a master at

striking poses and magniﬁcently conveying

the subtlest qualities."
" Tribune de Lausanne" H. F. Bert/tel

“It only remains for us to express our high
regard for those two great dancers,Mrina1ini
Sarabhai and Chathunni Panicker."
“Le Caurier" Gm. S.
“A festival of beauty."
“Journal de Geneva” Eugene Fabrc
“It is well known, that with the Darpana
Company one has to face each time with
enchantrnent. There is hardly a more sophi-

sticated Indian ballet in existence.

Madame Sarabhai is an interpreter, gifted
with an inner concentration which pervades

even the slightest movement.
The ritual is simple, clear cut and compre-

hensible, but the magic is beginning to
work already, a magic that is perhaps the
height of technical reﬁnement, a magic
which transmits deep Spirituality. That is
what is conveyed by the art of Darpana."
“La Tribune de Geneva" Spectator

Holland :
"This group shows such perfect understanding of the theatre that even strangers to
any exotic art whatever cannot but be
moved and carried away."
“He! Vader/and" (Liberal) The Hague
—N. De. W.
"The programme was opened With an example of the Kathakali style. viz. Krishna
Leela. This men's dance was performed by

Chathunni Panicker, Mrinalini Sarabhai’s

Pam”! Jawalmrlal Nt’h'" git‘t‘s the " Vcera Shrink/talc " on behalf 0f the Ahlm’dabad Malayalee Samaj to Mrinalini Sarabhai and Kavingal Chathunni Panicker

chief partner. As a Kathakali dancer he
has achieved incredible perfection. His
dancing is so rich in expression, so fascinat—
ing by plasticity and exuberance that one
lacks eyes as it were to see everything.”
“Nieuwe H'aagsc/te Courant" (Protestant)
The Hague Adr. Hagcr
Sweden :

“Mrinalini Sarabhai is an Indian ballerina
assoluta, as quick and brilliant as lightning
her movements, and her choreography has
the same brilliance.”

‘ “Dagens Nylietcr"—Stockliolm,
Anna Creta Stalile

Yugoslavia :
“Within the small, but very disciplined and
skilled group, the dancing—couple Mrinalini
Sarabhai-Chathunni Panicker has given us
an inkling of the brilliant and fascinating
dance."
“Politika”
“The art of the Indian Ballet—Troupe was
met with great enthusiasm by the audience
in the Syndicate—Hall which ﬁlled to its full
capacity. The superb dancing of Mrinalini
Sarabhai won the approval of all through
her dance 'I‘illana, and so did Chathunni
Panicker in the ﬁrst and second part of
this programme."

Hungary :
“The ﬁrst appearance of the Darpana ballet
presented the Hungarian audience with a
lasting experience.“
“Nepszabadsag” Gyorgy Csizmadia
U. S. S. R. दृ

“Everything is very complete in the art of
the Indian dancing ensemble “Darpana”
—the music, the colourful costumes, and
those exact 1000 year-old movements, on
which are built the dances, and the very
sustaining of these short choreographic pieces, often taken from ancient mythology."

I l Bor क्रिया 9 I

“Evening Leningrad" A Kaclzctoy

