जो
padalik

Dance

The Padatik dance wing is dedicated to fostering interest, imparting, training and encou-

raging creativity and innovation in classical dance forms.

Primarily, it has two wings—-

0dissi Er Kathak in which Pt. Birju Maharaj and Guru Kelucharan
conducted workshops and classes.

Mahapatra regularly

However, Guruji took Padatik a step closer to its

present status of a ’Dance Centre’ by visualising and choreographing two 0dissi ballets

based on Mahakavi Jaydev's “Geet Govindam" and Tagore’s ”Bhanusingher Padabali”
through his Padatik pupils.

Neverthless, the stabilizing factor was the

Vijai Shankar as the resident (Kathak) Guru of

Padatik Dance

advent of Pt.

Centre. The inimitable

ballet, “Hungry Stones", based on Rabindranath Tagore’s 'Kshudhi' to Pashan’, presented

by the students of the Yakshini Centre of Kathak Dance of Japan and conceived, Cornposed and directed by Guruji, has proved to be a landmark in Padatik’s cultural history.

Ex-teacher of dance at the Ali Akbar College at San Francisco and a student of Pt. Birju,
Maharaj. Chetna Jalan is the director in Padatik Dance Centre. Chetna has also been
a member of the Jury at the International Ballet Competitian in Moscow in 1985 and

1989. She has pursued theatre acting under the direction of her husband, Shyamanand
Ja Ian.

Besides providing the benefits of the gurus Padatik has also undertaken the exposition
and promotion of its students and associates.
The absence of a dance circle in Calcutta provided Padatik with the
to initiate one.

With the active and constructive support

dancers and critics

of

necessary impetus

recognised

dance gurus,

Padatik enjoys an overall goodwill. with the help of an infrastruc-

ture which includes the auditorias and dance classes, the Padatik Dance Circle has
been successful in presenting an array of performances, workshops, lecture-demonstrations and experimental works since its inception in 1983. Padatik's uncommon presen
tations have

not only satisfied aesthetically but

have

also aimed at enlightening the

audience about the Indian dance scene. Critics, connoissuers, dance lovers comprising

the circle having been given the opportunity to get closely associated with the collec-

