the occassion of Shiva’s annual worship. Perhaps basis
of the Chhau Dance is originated from the above nonAryan sources, as the dance is mainly conﬁned to the
Mundari speaking non-Aryan people of the area. It is
apparent that in spite of the subsequent Hindu inﬂuence
over the dance, the original name of the dance has not
undergone any change, However, the general belief is
that this dance is evolved in cantonrnent as practicsed
by the soldiers of Mayurbhanj.

threads, garlands of Malika, Champak and other flowers in addition to carrying of canes. This is how they
have come to be designated as Vetra Sanyasi and SutraSanyasi. During this period the respective gotras are
changed to that of Shiva Gotra. These Bhagtas pay mid

night visits to the dance arena carrying Jatraghat and
Nishaghat on their heads. They dance with songs in
honour of Shiva and Shakti to which reversance is shown
by the artists and the people.

But a deeper investigation of the movements shows
that far from being of martial origin, it is a

variety of

dance-with mask in the past which has evolved forming
a part of socio-religious celebrations held during the
spring annually, terminating round about mid-April.
The grand ﬁnale coming of on the last day of Chaitra
(Solar month) just before Mahavishuba Sankaranti. The

presiding deity ofthe dance is the Bhairav, who is
worshiped both as a God and Goddess.
The celebrations in Mayurbhanj start about 15

days before the Vishuba Sankranti with the instalation
of the pole. People observe day long fast and worship
Shiva and Shakti. There is quite an elaborated ritual
in which people walk on fire, hang themselves to the pole
with fire underneath, etc. The main facet of the celebra-

tion is the Institution of the Bhagtas. These consist of
groupe each under Patbhagta. They regidly observe the
strict code of perfect and yogic decipline during this period. They are dressed in red and invested with sacred

Khiching the ancient capital of Mayurbhanj built
in the 10th or 1 1th Century reveals a civilization which
found expression in diverse forms ofarts ofvery high
order styled as Mayurbhanj School and the influence
avails of different forms ofJainism, Budhism and Brah-

amanism. In the l6th Century there is a reference of
a Chhau dance performance at the time of Akbar 5
march on Bengal in presence ofRaja Munsingh. It will be
interestirg to know that at the time of King George‘s
visit in the year 1911 Mayurbhanj State presented a
dance item namely “Paik” dance wich was performed
by 64 artists. The Mayurbhanj Royal family took keen
interest and participated in the development of this
dance style themselves. Princess themselves took part
and maintaind a group of 100 artists. dancers, musicians and Gurus. They were divided into two Parties

namey Uttarsahi Kings party and Dakshinsalti-Queens’
party to hold competition regularly to improvethe dance
standard.

