Grammar of Chhau Dance-Style is highly develop
ed and quite elaborate. The basic rnotice of Maurbhanj
Chhau is Tribhung-Chok. All the movements maintain
this aspect of physical State. Chhau has four divisions
“namely “That. “Kita” Chok” and “Dharan” which
means Costume and decor. Rasa, posture and characteri
zation. Chhau movements are very Sculpturesque and
beautiful. Anurnber of flying Gandharva poses are seen
in this style which are found only in Mayurbhanj
Chhau Dance. Six limbs namely feet, hip, waist, and
chest, shoulder and head are liberally made use of. The
step is always lifted up like that of a crane. The weight
of the body is held upward with the movements and

landing is f'eater light and soft. The expansion and
relaxation of chest is beautifully used. Six chalies or
Tapka are developed for the use of six limbs. Their
names are Sada , ahra, Muda, Dhou, Duba and Uska
which means simple, ripple, twist wave. sink and high-

up. There are 36 uflies and more than 250 up—uflies
(combination of movements). This dance style has a variety
of leaps, jumps and circles both on the land and in the
air. Further all movements in Chhau dance are divided
in two catagories’

namely Kalibhanga and Kalikata.

Kalibhanga are the lagy movements and Kalikata are
Tandava movements and there is a third addition Hathiyardhara which is a martial movement.
The composition of Chhau dance- Dance is divided
in three parts namely, Chali, Nato and Natki Chali
explains the type of the character of a particular dance

going to be. Natof'orms the basic dance movements
according to the theme and Natki is the climax or ecstasy, As all the dances in Chhau dance style end in
jubilation.

The names of the Chali, Uflies and up— Uflies indicate that the movements are developed from the day to
day life and house work, and from the nature except
that two uflies namely Khand~hana and Jeetahana
which are of martial character.
There are few dances still in practice which are
more than 200 years old. Their names are Garud. Singh
Jambuvan. Magarmach, Sesambar, Pencha, Bakasur
etc. These are solo items. Group items started only from
the last decade of 18th century. F'avouriate theme of
the Chhau Dances are based on Shiva. Krishna, Maha-

bharat Puran etc. It has also lyrical and modern theme.
Chhau dance repertoire has solo dances, duet dances
and groupe dances.
The main percussion instruments are Dhol, Nagada, Kadka and Mada]. The melodic portion is played
on Maohri (Sahnai) and flut. It has highly developed
shythmic pattaerns. The Mnernomic syllables used by
the drummers in composingvarious rhythms are "Ghadan” “'I‘andeon, “Dhin, “Denbaw Tarar and ‘Urar’. Before
the dance perfarmance begins music is played. It is called
Rangabaja in Chhau dance sytle. Rangabaja ls played
to create an atmosphere for the type of the performance

