PIERROT ’ S TROUPE PRESENTS

mooड्डड्डेश्या ष्टिख्या2000
HINDI CD‘SMEDY

..”4???
…
' 1%te ३३५८१…

16th April, 2000 (Sunday) 7.00 p.m.
at

'

KAMANI AUDITORIUM, Copernicus 'l'arg
Direction

DR. M. SAYEED ALAM and DIGAMBAR PRASAD
MODERN ﬁRT 2000 is a crazy, spoofy comedy in every sense of the term. The plot revolves around
4 painters, Madhuri Fida Hussain, Weepy Singh, Jatin Das Kapital and Satish Gujjar, caricatures of four
very renowned painters. These painters hold an exhibition, at Modern Art Gallery, that is inaugurated by
none other than Mulayam Singh Yadav, the inauguration lamp lit by RaveenaT‘andon's clone, the show
compered by Hanuman Khan, Sal m an Khan's yonger brother, with Picasso's great-grandson, Jhukaso,

dropping in for the sake of the painting fraternity. The exhibition is thereafter visited by people from all walks
of life - professors, model Madhu Spray alongwith her wrestler husband, Rustam-e-Hind, a Reid &Taylor

suit clad beggar who carries a mobile phone, two ghosts and a thief. And yes, not to forget our very own. ..hold
you r breath, , , Bill Clinton, who drops in to see the eXhibition, when in Delhi. Unfortunately for the painters,
they do not manage to sell even a single painting. So, over-wrought with desperation they hire a Dant
Manjan Wala to auction their paintings. Even this move backfires and the painters now entrust their master
pieces in the hands of the vendors at Janpath.
The USP of this play is the number of caricatures it draws in almost every second scene. From the

seductive Raveena 'Dummy'Tandon and the bare-chested Hanuman Khan, to the wily Mulayam Singh
and the ever viagara (ous) Bill Clinton, the play keeps you moving from one spoof to another in no time.
Artists, politicians, film stars, the man—on-the-street...Playwright Sayeed Alam has spared none. Fast, racy

and laced with one-liners, MODERN ART 2000 is bound to have you rolling with laughter in aisles.

Tickets Rs. 200/-, 150/-, 100/- & 50/— available from April 5 at

For details and ﬁle-booking contact -

Alam 6451640 and Hasan91-533262

