B E S U RA

D E S l"|

(The Land of Disharrnony)

an original musical by the Music Theatre Workshop
Final framework sketch, August 1982

SCEN E 0 N E
At the end of the overture, the curtain rises on a
dimly lit stage, The set is made of three different levels : the stage level, where the poorest,
- the tube people, live in large sewage pipes
around which they improvise their jhuggies. On
the tops of these pipes move the middle class
characters: the Multinationalist and his attendant Robot, Bhagwan Hashish, the Landlord,
the Pahelwan, Khundak Khan, the Expert and
B Above this is anather level on which appear
Kubudhi, Durmati and the King.

v) SONG Ill : The nautanki is a sharp and
pungent satire on the state of 30. They preface
it however by saying that this song is not about
80. As they sing, they improvise costumes and
sets from objects borrowed from Bhola. First
there are no bystanders, but slowly the tube
people leave their jobs and come to look, laugh
and listen. The song also requires their participation in replies to questions. The jailor indicates to the spy that he should arrest D and S,
but the spy gsts carried away by the song.
Finally he does arrest them, and as the tube
dwellers turn and look up at their cowering
masters, the lights slowly fade.

i) SONG l : As the music of the overture
blends into the first song. characters begin to
appear

first on

the

lowest and then

on the

middle level. The mood of the song is sombre
and dramatic, conveying the conflict and threat
between the various classes. interactions in
the song would not only be betWeen a particular
class, but also with the members of other
classes. The action of the song would include
specific instances of exploitation; Bhagwan
Hashish and the palanquin bearers, the Multinationalist and his workers (exploited through
the medium of the Robot). During the song the
Landlord enters carrying the tribal tied upside
down from a pole and hands him over to
Khundak Khan, and Rocky moves up from the
tube dwellers to the middle class.
Finally
Kubuddi and Durrnati enter, and send out cornmands to the people, thru the medium of the
King, in puppet movement. The song ends dramatically when Bhola is thrown off the level.
K/D and the King exit.
ii) A dialogue starts now between Deepu and
Shekhoo Very quickly they must change the
mood and establish a rapport with the audience
The mood becomes lighter and you feel the possibility that something can be done. that things
can change for the better Shekhoo explains why
he has been thrown out, A explains why he left.
They decide to make a living front music.
iii
SONG ll : They sing a song together about
their mutual dependance in their act, doing
acrobatics, juggling and magical tricks as they
go along.
iv) They talk about themselves, their ideas, the
limits on freedom in 80, now what can they do
about it ? Can they larnpoon some of this thru
the medium of a nautanki .7

S C E N E TW O
i) Setting of the Council of the Free. The scene
starts Kubuddhi/Durmati interviewing for membership of the Council thru the medium of the
King. The interview is a comic rnixup of ques-

tions, interactions of K/D and the King and the
use of bribery. In this scene we need to establish the fact that in 80 your freedom depends
upon the amount of money you have. The rules

and regulations of the Council are also extremely
foolish is Other members enter.
ii
The tribal arrested in the previous scene is
brought in and 3 cases conducted against him
on tne initiative of the Landlord. He is not
allowed to speak or move, is bombarded by
questions
He is sentenced and led away
iii) The C of F discuss their forthcoming plans;
war against a neighbouring peaceful country
(K), cutting down of trees (D) to build (Multi—
national) an armaments factory which will be
extremely polluting to the environment and also
hazardous to the workers employed. The hypocrisy

of their

attitudes

is made evident,

the

flouting of democracy more so.
iv) Spy enters with D and S. There is a brief
trial and they are led away with long; heavy
sentences.
v) SONG lV : Anthem of the Council of the
Free. Each sings a verse about their own idea
of Progress They finally come to the conclusion
that they should worship money. Comic song,
sung in different accents. Blackou.

SC E N E T H R E E
The spy enters thru the auditorium, questioning
audience individuals and by the time he reaches
the stage, Deepu and Shekhoo have started their
nautan ki .

The Jail, large and bleak with pools of light and
several people in the shadows. The entire scene
revolves around the entries of different people.

