g) Tribal is thrown into prison by Khandak Khan ५
A befriends him, M establishes himself as the
jailor's charncha The relationship between these
three is clearly established.
ii) A, B enter and soon all these characters
start SONG, explaining why they have been
imprisoned, M sings with a starnrner and says
that he steals to eat, A, the middle class prisoner of conscience, is an under-trial in jail for
betraying his class, the tribal dances out his
version of what happened which is transalated
by A, and D/S sing a verse together. The jailors
sadistic laugh punctuates the song
The song
is interupted by the entry of the King. D and
S have not realized he is a prisoner too, and the
King's verse completes the song.
iii) The jailer tortures the prisoners and establishes his divide and rule policy. No dinner
is given to the prisoners
The five get
together and talk of what can be changed
in BD and how. The jail lights are switched off
for the night.
iv) SONG VI : The kings sings his view of the
future
He sees science as being the pursuit of
knowledge for the freedom of man, not for the
enslavement of nature.
v) Back to the harsh reality of the prison. While
the others try to sleep, the tribal sits quietly
awake in a corner. The spy enters from a secret
passageway and c nfers with the jailor. The
tribal wakes the others and they escape through
the secret passageway

v) SONG Vlll : The freedom Song, sung by
D, S, the King, the King, A. the tribal and Bhola.
All about their personal concepts of freedom,
and the need to unite to make this possible.
The five leave the city, they will return, Bhola
will wait for them. The sky is full of stars. Bhola
lifts a paintbrush and writes Azaadi across the
set in phosphorescent paint. The lights slowly
fade. Interval.

SCEN E FlVE
The underture before this scene introduces us
to the forest, the sounds and the setting are
completely different to the harsh bleakness of
the city.
i) The five appear thru the trees being led by
the tribal, who thru dance and music expresses
the difference between the city and the forest.
He gives them food and water and then disappears.
ii; SONG lX : Thru short and brief verbal lmages, the characters express the beauty/relaxation that the forest affords.
The verses are
interspersed with dialogue on the deteriorating
situation in the city and discussion of the various
forms of possible action. A procession of the
forest people can be heard approaching and the
four hide in the forest.
iii) The forest people appear singing SONG X,
that expresses the idea that they and the forest
are one and indivisible
Moved by this sentiment, the king emerges from his hiding place.

M awakes and realizes

what has happened. lights and alarms The spy
and Khundak Khan follow them through the
secret passage. Blackout.

SC E N E FO U R
i) The city by night. The exploitation of the
day manifests itself in different ways The tube
peoples are asleep on the ground, huddled and
crouched.
Above them K and his weaponry,
D and his money.

iv) The four meet the forest people joyfully.
They ask after the tribal. they re uly he is somewhere in the forest. lost perhaps
No, The fp
answer, the forest will take care of him. The fp
ask about conditions in the city, the four reply
and on being introduced to 4, become even
more vocal The need for something to be done
is felt by all, The tribal comes running in, heralding the arrival of R.

v) R arrives with the jailor and the spy. The
five hide themselves among the fp. He sings
SONG Xl extrolling the virtue of cutting down
trees.

ii
The five characters emerge from the tube of
Bhola, cross the stage and are quickly pursued
by Khundak Khan, the spy, Slapstick comedy
roundness: disguises, ’ghosts', near discovery,
hitting

people on

the

head, audience partici-

pation thru the answer of questions etc
‘chase' exits

iii)

The

SONG Vll : K sings his view of the future,

eulogizing Napolean and Hitler, He wants to
establish a military dictatorship, start conscription and engage in imperialist warfare. D sings
his View of the future, that he is the Kalki avatar
born into a Kalyug
Bhagwan Hashish blends
these two concepts together, a rnititaristic new
yoga. The future appears terrifying, and inevitable The three reach a decision on conscription
and the felling of trees.

iv

The chase continues with more comic gags.

vi) He is captured by the fp, the spy escapes
to the city and the jailor takes the tribal as a
hostage. The fp and the four decide to return
to the city to liberate both their own member
and the oppressed. '

vii). SONG Xll : On their way thru the auditorium, they teach the audience a song that they
will need them to sing later.

SC E N E S l X
i l The city, which has now becomes even more
of a police state as arrangements are underfoot
for the havan,sacritice. The C of the F is in a
panic as the king is nowhere around. They
decide to dress M as the King. Disagreement
between different members.
(Contd. on Page 37)

