On the music in BESURA DESH
I have been fortunate to have a group of hardworking and gifted young people who were
eager to be creative and expressive with the music. Their abilities were unmatched and
so the score had to be both easy and difficult. Though there were no major technical
hurdles, nevertheless great musicianship was demanded of the children to negotiate the
rapidly contrasting textures, irregular bar lengths and cross rhythms that run through the
score. The experience of working together on a musical project of this size proved invaluable to all of us, especially as opportunities for ensemble work in this city are rare. The
payoff was in a direct confrontation with the musical materials: we were all required to
listen attentively and to make an imaginative use of common musical concepts that usually
often never get beyond the theory exam stage.
No attempt has been made to ’fuse' Indian and Western music Though an obvious
mixture of elements is there, this came about in a very natural way through the needs of
the Hindl text, the dramatic action and the children's various musical backgrounds. The
tonal and harmonic language is influenced by a broad spectrum of contemporary Western
compositional practice which the children seemed to enjoy just as much as the myriad
Indian rhythms and motifs that embellish texture.

Some of the pieces are a result of group improvisation-such as the orchestration of Song 9
"Jeevan", with each instrumentalist playing minimal fragment of differing lengths to
create shifting wheels of sound. This is combined with a conventional 1 2-tone row that
appears in the piano part. In other songs too, a number of instrumental parts have been
improvised.
The rhythms received very Special attention from the performers. The Common 4-beat
metrical pattern was often dropped in favour of the more flowing 7 matra Rupak taal and
its 9 metre extension. Also frequent are 13 and 15 metre patterns
In many places a
cyclic texture is achieved by Criss-crossing ostinati of varying lengths. The band’s hot
favourite however was the 18-beat cycle that we nicknamed ‘ Double Nine' which

appears

in the very first chorus and later in the play in diminution and COntraction in the Forest
Music. These rhythmical intricacies are not pre-conceived irnpositions on the score, but
such as arose directly from the needs of the text and drama.
Melody is tonal, sometimes poly-tonal, pegged to several scales including ’C' Major. The
finale features a slowly building 8-part choral cluster on the E Flat major scale. Modulations are a frequent and important device for enhancing tonal contrast.
The instrumentation has often been kept very sparse so as to allow the lyrics to come
through
Vocal considerations were paramount in the melodic settings
The play had, of
necessity, to be cast before the music could be set so as to ensure that each solo was
well within the range of the particular singer's voice and musical capacity. There is also
a wide tirnbral choice with some of the singers such as Durmati coming through with a
strong throat projection while others like the Yuvraj sing with a more rounded head voice.
This contrast partly also draws attention to the musical metaphor in the title of the play.
Characters on the upper levels use microphones. The higher you are, the louder you get.
—Param Vir

MUSICIANS and INSTRUMENTATION :
Pranav Kapoor
Vikas Mehta

—
——

Bass Xylophone, drums, triangles, temple bells, dholak
Drums, Tumba. Bongos, Glockenspiel, Wood block, cowbell, Cymbal, manjira.

Praveen Swami

—

Param Vir
Zafar AI-Talib

—

Recorders : sopranino, descant, alto and tenor, Bass Drum
and Chinese block.
Piano, tasa tins and harrnoniurn.

—-

Clarinet in B Flat

Sanjeev Gupta

—-

Deepak Deolalikar

—

Alto Xylophone, Metallophone, cymbal, rnaraccas
Five Tablas and Bayan, Bead rnaroccas, dhol

Felix Padel

—

Violin

