3A CK STAG E
Assistant Choir Director
Assistant Director
Technical Director
Cast Manager
Stage Manager
Sets built by
Costumes
Printing
Publicity/ Front of House

Anne Mackey
Salil Singh
Mona Chawla
Medan Mohan Singh
Pratap Talwar
Vidya Sagar
Kaushi Ramdas
Feisal Alkazi
Zafar Al-Talib
R. Mullick
AL Rana
R. Kaushik

—

ACKNO WLEDGEMENTS
The Principal and Headmaster of St. Xavier's School.
The Director and Staff at Max Mueller Bhavan.
Somohini Theatre Group
Dr. Sridharan of the Vishva Yuvak Kendra.
Blocks-Courtesy Ruchika Theatre Group

The Music Theatre Workshop (MTW), founded by Param Vir and Barry
John in 1978-79 is a regular training programme which gears itself
towards creating original musical and dramatic forms, not only of
relevance to India but which also encourages kids to be imaginative,
critical and self-reliant.
KIDSTUF our first original musical, evolved out of an eight month period
of research, discussion and improvisation and also aimed to create a
musical about children by children
The children's personal views and
experiences were recorded, notes compared, and interviews conducted.
Relevant films were seen, books read, and newspapers gleaned using
the form of a play within a play allowed for many of the ambivalencies
of position, and the relevancies of different points of view, to be
KDSTUF was
carried over from preparation to actual performances
performed in Delhi and Bombav in 1979

By 1981 much of its content

had changed with the werkshop's collective experience. In a sense
the plav still remains unfinished More time and dISCUSSlOI’l would lead
to still more changes.
THE DEMONS OF BARA TOOTl evolved out of a workshop and was first

presented in Delhi in 1980

It actually began with the idea of adapting

Oscar Wilde’s 'Starchild,’ but during rehearsals that idea was dissected
and dropped. Much of the material in Denise Coffey s 'The Incredible
Vanishing' was re-vamped and used to present a fresh statement.

BESURA DESH created by Param Vir and Feisal Alkazi, also evolved out
है

of a workshop with the kids
In it the kids have made a relevant
assessment of the society they live in, and have spontaneously respondedwith a particularly constructive and critical attitude.

