. . AUDIENCE SONG
The breeze is gently-gently blowing along,

Listen, just listen to it singing its song, ३
The song that it's singing is ages old,
And we mustn't let it's 90 untold.
This gentle breeze must be made into a storm,
And then the unjust must be made to reform.

The Tribal Situation

*“The same consciousness that led the people
of Charnoli to protect their trees by hugging
them was expressed by the tribal people of
Singhbhum in Bihar by uprooting the teak saplings planted by the Bihar Forest Development
Corporation."
What ? How can some people who are protecting trees and other people who are killing them
be doing the same thing ?

The DevelopmentCorporation has been trying
to plant teak trees in the place of Sal trees in
Bihar's tribal Singhbhum district. Although the
timber of the Teak tree can be sold by the
Corporation, and bring them better profits than
Sal wood, the Sal tree is native to the area.
The tribal people who live in these forests of
Singhbhum, the Ho, depend on the Sal tree for
many things—for examples its leaves are used

as fodder.

them, they started to raid the govt's nurseries,
and to destroy Teak saplings there, as well as
those planted in the forest by the Corporation.
Ho opposition to the govt. is growing, and the
police in retaliation have fired on them.
For a long time the Hos have been asking for a
separate state from Bihar called ’Jharkhand'.
They want this because their needs have been
largely ignored by the plains based Bihar Govt.
This plea for their own state has been denied
thent
Since mid-1980, the Hos have started opposing
the govt by going and cutting large areas of the
forest. This has resulted in more police brutality, for example the Gua massacre in which 13
Hos were killed.

As tribal anger has grown, they have become
more militant and now forest officials cannot

When these trees are replaced by

Teak, the Ho are losing a valuable source of
livelihood. Also, there are elephants in that
When the Sal
area which feed on the Sal tree
trees are replaced by teak, these elephants raid
the Ho's rice fields, another of their main sour-

even enter some of the more densely forested
regions of Singhbhum, which are aImOSt ruled
by the Hos liv.ng there.
What forced the Hos into this situation ?

ces of livelihood.

First the Hos asked the Govt. of stop replacing
Sal trees with Teak. When the govt. ignored

'The Indian Express, Oct. 26
Environment and Political Education—Krishna Kumar

