PR 0GRESS

What is progress ?
Is it filling your home with the latest goods ?
Or is it a situation of not caring for others ?
And thinking only of oneself ?
What is progress ?
To give with one hand, but to take back with two ?
To forget tomorrow, and to live for today ?
To preach what one cannot practice oneself ?
What is progress ?
Not to respect the earth for all it gives us ?
In 100 years the Taj Mahal will disintegrate because of air pollution.
In the last 20 years more than 40 lakh hectares of land
has been denuded of forests.

In the next 20 years an area equivalent
to the entire area under cultivation right now will be lost
Because of soil erosion.

By 1990, every year we will be cutting down one and a half lakh trees
To make apple crates.
What is progress ?
Due to air pollution 60% of Calcutta's population
suffers from respiratory deseases.
Every night one out of every two Indians
Goes to sleep hungry.
Today in the world there are more than 50,000 nuclear weapons,
whose destructive power is 100,000 times greater than
the bomb dropped on Hiroshima.
Progress? Progress .7 PROGRESS
lVIan’s intelligence has braught him to where me is today.
Man‘s intelligence will lead him farward into the future.
But we need to stop and consider the true opions.
Before you, befor me, before us all before us today.
We need to stop for a moment and consider these options with care.

B ES U R A D E S H (Con Id. from page 24)

Constructive punishments are suggested to be
carried out under the orders of Bhola

ii) They spy comes running in with news of
fp's kidnapping of B. More consternation among
the members. Spy Robot and Pahelwan are
sent to collect money from the poor for the
havan.

R arrives and is caught as well

iii) The jailor returns with the tribal, the ideal
sacrifice for the ceremony.

M is revealed as being the irnposter
Hashish, Multinational, Robot, Landlord, Expert,
Pahelwan are captured

iv) l<,s’D emerge dressed as tribals and are
caught as well

vi)

4 enters and sees the difference in the

city. He leads the company in singing SONG
Xlll that is a variation on the song of the previous night. The people celebrate their new
found freedom.
vii) SONG XIV : The play ends with a warning
song, clearly presenting to the audience the
options before us today. The actors come down
into the auditorium and actually sing to individual audience members.
viii)

SONG XV : The curtain call number.

