AN INDIAN CHIEF'S MESSAGE
Chief Seath of the Duwanish Tribe wrote these words in a letter sent to President

Franklin Pierce of the United States in 7 855 .'
“The Great Chief in Washington sends words that he wishes to buy our land. How can
you buy or sell the sky—the warmth of the land ? This idea is strange to us. Yet we do
not own the freshness of the air or the sparkle of the water. How can you buy them

from us ?

Every part of this earth is sacred to my people.

Every shiny pine needle,

every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every clearing, and humming insect is
holy in the memory and experience of my people.

We know that the white man does not understand our ways. One portion of the land
is the same to him as the next, for he is a stranger who comes in the night and takes
from the land what he needs. The earth is not his brother but his enemy, and when he
has conquered it he moves on.
birthright is forgotten.

He leaves his father‘s graves, and his children's

There is no quiet place in the white man’s citieS. No place to hear the leaves of spring
or the rustle of insect wings. But perhaps because I am savage—~and do not understand—
the clatter only seems to insult the ears. And what is there to life if a man cannot
hear the lovely cry of the whipporwill or the arguments of the frog around the pond at
n ig ht .

The whites too, shall pass——perhaps sooner thon other tribes. Continue to COHtaminate
your bed and you will one night suffocate in your waste. When the buffalo are al!
slaughtered, the wild horses all tamed, the secret corners of the forest heavy with the
scent of many men, and the view of the ripe hills blotted by talking wires. Where is the

thicket? Gone. Where is the eagle ? Gone. And what is it to say goodbye to the swift
and the hunt, the end of living and the beginning of survival."
When we look around us at our own cities, it seems that we could be the white
men the Chief is talking about. To suffocate in our waste is a shameful thing.
We must try not just to survive, but to live.

