THE CH I PKO MOVEMENT
Once upon a time, not so very long ago, there

how important trees are.

were many man-eating tigers in Garhwal.

how much these trees gave them, and how
much the villagers depended on them to live
these Garhwali women loved the trees. And
they decided that they would defend these trees
from the Zamindar’s men just as they would
defend their children from a rnan-eating tiger.
They went and hugged the trees, and stood

And

in some places there still are some. The Garhwalis walk many miles over the mountains each
day, to gather fodder and firewood, to go to
their fields or to herd their cattle.

Even when

they know that there is a man-eater in the area
they do not stop, for they are a brave and hardworking people.
Often women have to take their babies to work
with them. When, as sometimes heppens, a
woman meets a man-eater, her first thought is to

Because they knew

between them and the men—they shielded the
trees from the Zamindar’s men's axes with their
own bodies, as they shielded their children from
the tiger's teeth and claws.
the trees.

So they protected

save her child. She hugs it close to herself and
uses her body to shield it from the child will

In the end, the Zarnindar gave up and and called

live.

his men back.

But the wise Garhwali women

had paid a terrible

price

for

their

victory.

Because of this the Garhwalis are very moved
when a child clings to its mother, and our word

Thirty-five of them had been axed to death by
the Zamindar’s men. These women are still

for clinging—'chipakna'—is a very special and
important word for them.

remembered and
Garhwal today.

Trees are very important, for the Garhwalis, and
for the rest of us. Not just because we can

Nine years ago, in

make things out of wood (like furniture and
tools) but because trees recycle the earth's
atmosphere so that we can have fresh air to
breathe. When a tree grows, it puts its roots
down deep into the earth. Then when it rains,
the earth is held in place by the roots of the
tree, and the rain water does not flow away,
carrying the rich soil with it, but seeps into the
earth. There it gathers and forms underground
water reserves, and then flows out onto the
surface of the earth in streams and rivers.
Which are where we mostly get our water for
growing plants, or even to drink.

Because trees hold the soil together we can
grow things to eat, like rice and wheat. Sometimes in the hills when the trees have all been
cut down, the rain water carries away all the
soil and there are no fields left to grow things

their

story is still told in

1973, something very like

this took place. In March, a contractor arrived
in Mandal, a village near Gopeshwar in Chamoli
Garhwal. The govt. had given him permission
to cut 35 trees in the village.
The village
people took him and showed him a neighboring
hillside which was bare and rocky. The explained
that three years before there had been a heavy
monsoon. In many places where there were no
trees much soil had been washed away. The
villagers could no longer grow food there as the
fields only had stones in them—and in some
cases even the fields had gone. The villagers
told the contractor that if he cut the trees in the
village near the fields that were left, the soil
would be washed away in the next heavy monsoon, and that even these fields would be lost
to them. If these happened the villagers would
not be able to grow enough food to feed themselves.

in—just rocks and stones.
The contractor wanted to take the trees back to

One hundred and fifty years ago there lived a
greedy Zamindar in Uttarakhand (what we call
Garhwal) . He decided to have some trees cut, and
sent

some men to cut them.

There were some

wise women in the village, however, who knew

Allahabad and make sports equipment out of
them, the villagers said, but if the trees were not
there to hold the soil, soon the villagers would

lose their fields
hungry.

And then they

would go

