TH E ASIAD

THE TA] MAHAL

A lot of public money has been recently spent

All of you must know about the Taj Mahal. The
Emperor Shah Jahan built a tomb in shining

on the coming ASIAD.

If this money had been

spent on what Delhi really needed instead of
being wasted on senseless show which gains
us nothing, the city in which we live might have
fewer problems than it does today.

marble almost 350 years ago for his beloved
queen Mumtaz Mahal. Because it is so beautiful many people still go to Agra to see it and to
remember the love of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz
Mahal.

Instead of spending Rs. 3610 million on games
related projects, the govt. could have set up 200
MW thermal power plants which could provide

The Yamuna river flows by the Taj Mahal.

If

you travel forty krns up it you will find a large

twice as much domestic power Delhi needs.

oil refinery (This converts the crude oil which

Instead we can look forward to power cuts.

comes out of the ground into the oil we put in

Instead of spending Rs. 700 million on sports
facilities and on organising the ASIAD the govt.

our cars to run them). This refinery is not
working yet, but when it starts; later this year,
it will give off a lot of thick black smoke.

could have built fourteen hospitals.

Instead of spending approximately Rs. 500
million on seven flyovers to make Delhi look

The wind will carry this smoke 4O krns to the
Taj. It will contain a substance called 'Sulphuric Dioxide’.
This sulphric dioxide when it

effective

combines with the moist river air will become

good, Delhi could have gained an

urban sewage scheme - something which it still

'Sulphuric Acid'.

I acks .

Instead of spending about Rs. 250 million on
the new Swimming Pool and the lndoorstadiurn,
Delhi could have gained 2500 buses. As it is,
a glance at the public transport system makes
words unnecessary.

Instead of using around Rs. 160 million to build
the main stadium, the govt. could have used
ity
just a fourth of the money to bring electric
ething
es—som
coloni
lement
to Delhi's resett
which it has till not done.

Sulphuric Acid is too heavy to stay in the air, so
when it is formed it will fall to the earth like rain.
We call this 'acid rain' When it falls on marble,
acid rain slowly eats into it and destroys it.
This is what will happen when it falls on the
marble Taj Mahal.
If the oil refinery starts sending out smoke this
year, the acid rains will begin, and soon the Taj
Mahal will be spoilt forever.

