0n Killing a Tree
(WE'VE PATEL

N o,
The root is to be pulled out—
Out of the anchoring earth;

It takes much time to kill a tree,
Not a simple job of the knife
Will do it. It has grown

It is to be roped, tied,
And pulled out - snapped out

Slowly consuming the earth,

Rising out of it, feeding

Or pulled out entirely,
Out from the earth-cave,
And the stregnth of the tree exposed,

Upon its crust, absorbing
Years of sunlight, air, water,
And out of its leperous hide

The source, white and wet,
The most sensitive, hidden
For years inside the earth.

Sprouting leaves.
80 hack and chop
But this alone wont do it.
Not so much pain will do it.
The bleeding back will heal

Then the matter
Of scorching and choking
ln sun and air,
Browning, hardening,

And from close to the ground
Will rise curled green twigs,

Twisting, withering,

Miniature boughs
Which if unchecked will expand again
To former size.

And then it is done.

DELHI
Delhi is slowly but surely becoming a desert. Over the past forty years more and more of
its green areas have been encroached on—largely to widen roads, and to make garbage
d u mp5 .
The time is now. Every day 10,000 tons of dust enter Delhi. The moisture level of the
air drops rapidly. As well as becoming dryer, the air is getting dirtier and dirtier because
of the industrial pollution rampant of Delhi. With terrible results. Near the lndraprastha
powerplant in South Delhi lung and heart diseases have increased dramatically because of
th i s .
lVlost water in Delhi is not clean either.

dirty water.

Seven out of every ten diseases are caused by

Many of resettlement colonies are the worst affected.

This is an example

of the govt ’s neglect of the poorer people of Delhi, many of whom live in the
resettlement colonies.

How can we who live in Delhi help solve these problems ?
1. We can learn more ourselves about the reasons for problems in Delhi and tell other
people about these causes.

2. We can organise ourselves into neighbourhood groups to stop any actions by the govt
'
which threaten the environment in which we live.
3. We can do things ourselves in our daily lives. Like wasting less paper, or always
turning the lights out when we leave the room. And we can also actively help by

planting trees~ here in the city as well as outside.

