What can you do?

Now that you have seen the play, and the lyrics and the background material from which
it was created, maybe you would like to join one of the groups of young people currently
Involved With these issues. There are at least six possible groups you could join :

The Music Theatre Workshop
Are you between 10-16, interested in theatre, and have talent? Have been excited by
this evening's performance .7 Maybe you should join the MTW-it meets every Sunday
morning at Max Mueller Bhavan to creatively learn and explore the fascinating sphere of
music-theatre. Membership forms are available at the box office, or just phone Pararn Vir
at 228128-or write to MTW, 21 N, Riviera Mall Road, Delhi-7.

Development Education Project
Interested in getting to actually understand the environment in which you live .7 Excited
by the prospect of questioning a lot of your own attitudes and values along with your
peers and interested adults ? If you are 13 plus and have a questioning mind, contact
Lalita Ramdas at 32, Lodi Estate, Phone : 697287.

Ruchika Theatre Group
It you are 16 plus and are seriously interested in participating in any area of theatre
activity-on or off the stage-Ruchika is the place for you. Started ten years ago by a group
of students just out of school, this group is, today, one of Delhi’s leading Theatre Groups,
Producing six to seven new productions every year, in english, hindi and urdu. Interested?
Contact either Arun Kukreja at 226308, or Feisal Alkazi at 622955. Or just write to
Ruchika at A28, Nizarnuddin West.

K a l p avr i ksh
Worried about the polluted environment ? Concerned about the deterioration of the wild
life situation ? Upset by the slow but steady desertification of Delhi ? Join Kalpavriksh.

Abner Non-formal Education Project
Under this project you can help regularly, teaching children of your own age group from a
deprived background either in a neighbouring slum, construction site, or resettlement
colony. If you are 13 plus and are interested. contact the Abner NFE Project at 32 Lodi
Estate
Phone 697287 for further details.

