KALPAVRIKSH
Large scale planting has been impossible, however, because when Kalpavriksh
organised local peOple, the administration did
not provide the trees it had promised but only
a small number. And did not provide any tree-

Kalpavriksh is a group of mainly students who
want to do something to improve Delhi’s
environment. It was formed about two and a
half years ago, and has since been trying to
draw the authorities' attention to deteriorating

schools.

conditions in Delhi.

guards at all.

One of the things that Kalpavriksh is protesting

Kalpavriksh has also protested the state of waterpollution in Delhi, but was again rebuffed by the

against is the destruction of the green areas of
Delhi—particularly the Ridge and the Siri forest
——and it is largely due to its efforts that the
Administration
has finally
declared
them
’protected areas’. Even then the administration
continues to misuse these green areas. In fact
once Kalpavriksh volunteers had to sit in front
of bulldozers which were going to raze a wild

administration.
Apart

from
protesting
against individual
problems, Kalpavriksh wants to make more young
people aware of the environmental problems
that they face today. To this end it has started

some Nature Clubs in several Delhi schools.
Frequent slideshows are given with the prospect

area in Chanakya Puri before the adminstration '
was shamed into recognising that the area was

protected.

of some audio-visual presentatioris in the near
future. And a newsletter 'called 'nature' is
brought
out
which gives information On

Although Kalpavriksh is against the cutting of
Delhi’s ancient trees and the denudation of its

various live issues, and suggestion for action.

forests, it does recognise that most of the people
who live in Delhi need wood to cook their food.
Kalpavriksh has suggested that special fire-wood
plantations be started on the unused land near
these colonies, thereby meeting the needs of
these citizens as well as saving the green areas

Kalpavriksh also organises birdwatching trips
and some trips into the forests for young people
from the city, so that they can appreciate the

of Delhi.
Kalpavriksh has also done some planting in some

beauty of nature in the wild.
Kalpavriksh is an informal organisation with no
office bearers. This way everybody gets their
chance to be creative and to really contribute to
the group.

THE GLEE CLUB
The Glee Club is the treble voices'choir of St. Xavier's School.

opportunities to youngsters talented in singing.
assistant director and piano accompanist.

It was established in 1975 to

offer

It is directed by Pararn Vir, with Anne Mackey as

For the last year and a half the Glee Club boys have been undergoing intensive training to develop
Great emphasis has been placed on
a new choir sound that has greater resonance and projection
voice production technique and this has led to extending the vocal range upto two and a half
Prior to training the same singers had a range less than half as much. Technical facility
0CtaVe S.
has also led to a refinement of timbre and greater purity in intonation. The Kodaly method is used
to teach the scale and intervals.

Much of this work was made possible because of two Choir Workshops sponsored by the British
Co u nc i | .

The first one was last year in March with Jill Phillips from London, who worked with the

Glee Club for two weeks to establish the new sound. The second workshop was with Andy Gray
(formerly teacher at the Lawrence School, Sanawar) who helped the choir and its directors to
achieve greater control over phrasing, intonation and tone colour.
'
'
This is the Glee Club's first public appearance and the choral music in BESUPA DESH l
written specifically to exploit the possibilities inherent in the new sound.
है as been

