future. Such a theatre, we thought would only emerge out of the various segments of the
folklore of that region, of which the ballads constituted the strongest and the ricehest source.

Beeing the unwritten records of the life of the prOple, as lived by them for centuries in the
lap of the Himalayas, they seemed to offer a very strong potential for any the atrical venture.
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting the folk ballads of
Kumaon & Garhwal to contemporary stage. Rajula—Malushahi was the first attempt of its
kinds. Shri Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely frrniliar with the background culture and folk
traditions of that region, prepared the first script which, however. covered only half of the

५ ballad. The script was in Kumaoni, and was produced in an Operatic form. The first
performance of this production was given in 1980 at Kamani to packed houses.

Encouraged by tremendous reSponse we received, we decided to present the full ballad.
It was produced & presented in 1981. This production was a turning point in the life
of the
Parvatiya Kala Kendra. It was remarkable in the sense that for first time a production
of
this dimension was mounted capturing the essence of the cultural heritage
of the pCOple
of Uttarkhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of
Delhi stage like Vinod
Nagpal and V.M. Badola performed in the production alongwith many
fresh entrants to theatre
and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directed it.
The script, as of
earlier, was that of Shri Briendra La] and musical score was that of Mohan
Upreti. Since this

event the Kendra did not look back. Every year it has taken up a
new ballad of the region
and given it a dramatic form. The wide spectrum of the f'olklores of the
region that have been
covered are given below in the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES
1968

Founded as Registered Society.
Uttarkhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.

1969

Repeat performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.

1969

Uttarkhand Folk Songs and Dances, AlFACS Hall.
Inaugurated by Late Smt
Gandhi.

1969-1971

Repeat Performances at Rashtratpati Bhaw
an, Mavlankar Hall, G'indhi Darsh'm
USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditorium,
INT Hall, and Doordarsan.

l 971

I CC. R sponsored performances in Sikkim.

1972-76

Repeat Performances for Delhi- base
d Utt:.rkhand people at Ramakrishnap
ur'un
Lodhi Colony, Talkatora Stadium.
Aiwane-Galib, Red Fort (Kumaoni
Battalion,
III-Regiment), Tin M urti Bhawan
, Mavlankar Hall, TV recording
for
New
Year
Programme.
Repeat Performances for Uttarkhand peo
p l e based in
' bomba Ja '
'
Rishikesh and Moradabad.
y, Ipur. KOtdWar,

'

