m*6 $09it Qहै 9 से9३9. ”9 999ईर्द €-21.69?9-39”em..6666 Q6““OWOW

W

INDER SABHA
(Producer’s Mote)
M 0 HA N U PR ETI
momoommwcommmgowmoomm
॰ ३'
..' . '

I

७.

i

Parvatiya Kala Kendra feels great pleasure in presenting the nearly hundered fifty years

old musical play ’INDER SABHA’ written by one Shri Krishna Bihari Shukla ‘Amanat‘ of
Lucknow. It was first presented by the Nawab of Avadh, Wajid Ali Shah in his ‘Parikhana’

situated in his famous Lucknow Baradari. It may be relevant to ask. as to why the Parvatiya
Kala Kendra, which has so far been specialising only in presenting theatrical adaptations of
folk ballads of Kumaon and Garhwal, has all of a sudden taken upon itself the onerous
responsibility of persenting this classical musical play written in Urdu,
Hindi and other

३ non-pahari sub-languages spoken in the Hindi speaking belt of North India. I have
only two
answers to offer-firstly this play reflects in ample measure the composite character
of our
great artistic and cultural traditions, and secondly its presentation style,
particularly the
musical mode of dialogues is very akin to the features of the theatrical traditions prevalent
in
Uttarakhand, for instance the Ramleela. I may also add here that our artists
belonging to this
generation have greatly been benefited by the experience of encountering
the creative blend of

the classical and non-classical - musical. traditions, which constantly occur in
the play.
Considered from this paint of view, I would prefer to treat it as a WorkshOp
production.
MUSIC OF I N DER SABHA- I feel this play highlights the importanc
e of music of
theatrical productions, and deserves special mention. One really is strvck
by the imagination
of the playwright who chose to incorporate and use various musical
forms, both classical and
non-classical, as theatrical idoimto convey the story, which by itself
is otherwise very thin.
and one dimtnsional There are no prose dialogues, except for reeitationa
l passages occuring at
and there. There is no scope for intense dramatic charcterlsation. The
story is very simple. In
fact it is the continuation of the ancient Pururava-Urvashi myth. Sabza
Pari (Urvashi) falls
i

