in love with Gulf'am (Pururava). This is not liked by Inder (Indra) and Sabza Pari is externed
from heaven. Gulfam is made a prisoner. Sabza Pari becomes a Jogan (female medicant). She
sings and moves from place in paristan

(Fairyland). Kala Dev, her Chief attendant who is a

sympathetic character, goes to Inder. telling him about the arrival of a ‘Jogan’ in Paristan-

Inder, being a great patron of art. asks him to invite the Jogan to sing and dance. Kala Dev
bringsh er to the court. A dialogue ansues beetwecn Inder & Jogan. Jogan sings on Inder’srequest.
He is very much impressed by her beautiful music and offers her many reqards. She declines
them one by one. but influences Inder to the extent of his agree-ing to grant her anything that
shemay ask for. This happens thrice. Elated by the word of honour given by Inder, she asks
for he release of Gulf’am. Inder is confused, but taking into consideration her true love and

fidelity he is delighted and it as a nice and beautiful experience. He orders Lal Dev, his chief
attendant to release Gulfam. Both Gulf'am and

Subza Pari finally unite. There is celebration

and joy all aromid.

Notbithstanding this thin plot, the music which runs all thorough the play,

forms its

main ingredicnt I may be allowed to categorically assert that there is no parallel of Inder
Sabha in Indian Theatre, as for as the role of musical is concerned in dramatic presentations.
Later, Inder Sabha music changed to suit the requirements of Parsi Theatre which included
this play in its theatrical reprtoire. Certain original tunes underwent changes. Following suit,
the theatre groups of the country attempted the same, like the Little Theatre Group of Delhi
in 1966 and last year, Uma Sharma and her troupe. In this production of the Parvatiya Kala
Kendra I have also amended, edited as also created some of the musical modes, in accordance
with the requirements of our troupe. However, I must acknoledge that I have retained many
compositions - as taught by the late Shri Champa Lal, incorporated by the late Shri Panna Lal
in the L. T. G. production of 1966. It is not an easy task for the new generation of singers and

actors to accept in toto, the musical heritage of by gone days. Yet one has to be careful while
tempering with the tradition. I have avoided the ‘Muzra’ aspect which many companies ligh
lishites in teose produding.

