A Note
From

The Director
.clnder Sabha” has a lot of significance in the
world of playwriting in India,
perhaps not becuase it is a very skilled script but for its historical importance viz.
in the mid 19th century during pre-Bharatendu peroid done by Wajid Ali

written

Shah staged

in king’s Court and belived that Shah had acted as Indra’ himself. Further, looking at
it one could simply draw the script was tailon-madc to the king’staste Wajid Ali could
relate himself to ’Indra' as a great appreceator of music and dance, hopef'ully.
Thus, the myth and history go together...while leaving a free hand for a prOducer
to fit in the details. As a script one has the list of songs and Very ‘rhYming dialogues.
However, doing it today means bringing to life the great tradition of "Indianness”.

To

note, Indra - Wajid Ali Shah rythm - contemporary understanding reflected in Urdu-Hindi
combination various styles of singing, rythrns dance f'orrns - all blended to give you an
evening. full of Rasa. ‘Inder Sabha’ profoundly suggests a very prograssive thought and
attitude towards the tradition of Art that is, the keeper of tradition is not a mere spider

who creats a beautiful web and dies within it, rather he should identify with the bees
who collect honey from various sources and stores it in a beautiful hive which is very
strong to be easily broken.
Since the singing skill dominates the presentation design of the play.

The major

contribution is made through the singing actors and actresses. 'I'ruthf'ully, I have regards for
this young team, as its
progressively.

members are

in the process of carrying out

the

tradition

Tradition, as I understand it, is carried out by two elements, one, the atma (spirit)
and the padhati (procedure). The» procedure is subject to change as it is mainly governed
by the times. I regret that lam not able to bring the entire script bef'or you as I doubt,
it is diﬁcult to spare five to six hours, because in a city life, time mangement is a problem

with all of us.

‘

Finally, I thank Parvatiya Kala Kendra for the second opertunity they have given
me to work with them and to you all the theatre Lovers.

S u. bh a sh M d g a t a

