emotional and real. The Three Arts
Club’s productions bring one face to
face with the problems of today but
they do not, rather they are unable
to, take you in the imaginative world
of fairyland or of poetry,
It is not, however, without _ signiﬁcance that such plays as presented in
the Festival have been produced. It
is the ﬁrm belief of the Three Arts
Club that in order to make the theatre
popular it must appeal to the common
man. And its appeal can only be
manifest when it deals with his problems. Only by catering to his tastes,
only by re-enacting to him his life,
can we make him realise the virtues and vices inherent in and about
him. That is how we tend to establish

a threatre of the people.
It is with this point in view that
the present Festival has been organised.
The Festival will serve to set up a
tradition in Delhi. it is with a sincere
wish that the theatre becomes popular
that we are organising the Festival
and hope that other similar theatre
groups will take courage and organise
their plays for presentation to the
public. Another factor that has motivated us in taking up this venture is
the necessity of a regular theatre in
३

Delhi—a theatre activity that will ensure drama on each weekened of the

year. This is not impossible with all
the art groups functioning in the
Capital. If we are able to cater . to
the theatre going public eVery week,
the theatre in Delhi would have come
into its own and provided the public
with a medium both enjoyable and
enlightening. Only by _ such ventures
can we build the regular theatre and
we do trust that, following the lead
given by this Festival, the public will
be able ._to have more varied, more

diverse and more interesting fare.
But such activities need enthusiasm

and they need money. We _ have
enthusiasm and being an organisation
depending on subscriptions from members, in the absence of Government
grants, we look to those interested in
the theatre for patronage. Few artists
or art institutions have been rich:
they just scramble through. But we
do hope that from this Festival onwards we will have created in Delhi
a permanent theatre audience which
will be the main prop and stimulant
of all theatre groups. It is in this
hope of creating a theatre audience
and invigorating the activities of theatre groups that the Three Arts Club
organises this Festival.

