S a n geet N ata k A k a de m i
Sangeet Natak Akaderni, India’s national academy for music, dance and drama, is the
first national academy of the arts set up in 1952 by the Republic of India. The first
President of lndia, Dr Rajendra Prasad, inaugurated it on 28 January 1953 in a special
function held in the Parliament House.
Since its inception the Akaderni has been functioning as the apex body for the
performing arts in the country, preserving and promoting the vast intangible heritage of
India’s diverse culture expressed in the many forms of music, dance and drama. in
furtherance of its objectives, the Akaderni collaborates with the governments and arts

academies of the different States and Territories of the Union of India, as also with
major cultural institutions in the country. The Akaderni also establishes and looks after
institutions and projects of national importance in the field of performing arts. It
organizes performances of music, dance, and theatre; gives awards in recognition of
individual artistic or scholarly achievement; subsidizes the work of institutions engaged
in teaching, performing or promoting music, dance, or theatre; gives grants—in-aid for
research, documentation, and publishing in the performing arts; organizes and
subsidizes seminars and conferences of subject specialists; documents and records
the performing arts for its audio—visual archive; maintains a reference library and a
gallery of musical instruments; and publishes literature on relevant subjects on a small
scale.
Sangeet NatakAkademi also renders advice and assistance to the Government of
India in the task of formulating and implementing policies and programmes in the field.
Additionally, the Akaderni carries a part of the responsibilities of the state for fostering
cultural contacts between various regions in India, and between India and the world.
The Akaderni manages two national institutions of dance, the Jawaharlal Nehru

Manipur Dance Academy in lmphal and the Kathak Kendra in New Delhi, as its
constituent units. The National School of Drama in Delhi was originally yet another
constituent unit of the Akaderni .
Sangeet Natak Akaderni is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Culture, and is
fully funded by the Government for implementation of its schemes and programmes.
Officers of the Akademi
Chairman
SHRl RAM NlWAS MIRDHA
Vice — Ch a rim a n
SHRI KAVALAM NARAYANA PANIKKAR
Financial Adviser
SH R l R AG H U M E N O N

Secretary
8 H R l J AYA N T KAS T U AR

