with another boy. Hannan got despaired and approached Rabiya to marry
her again. At first, Rabiya was cruel towards him but looking at his pitiable
condition mellowed down and agreed to marry him. But the dictates of
religion came in the way. Hannan asked Rabiya to marry the Moulabi.
Rabiya disagreed. Hannan and Moulabi told Rabiya about the religious
custom that if a divorced woman wanted to rernarry her earlier husband,
she would have to marry another person first and spend three months with
him, and at least once there should be a physical relation between them.
Thereafter, when this man divorced her, then only her earlier husband could

accept her.
How Rabiya faces the whole situation is depicted in the play, Jatra.

Director’s Note
Simply stated, this iourney of ours is an introspection. The subject of each
of our plays since the beginning of our days in drama has been to examine
us closely. It is beyond us to make an appraisal of the extent, depth and
universal appeal of Islam.
But non-Islamic tendencies in the garb of lslarn in the Muslim society
of lower Assam have been our concern since our childhood.
I n this illiterate or sern i- literate society, we hear different interpretations
of the same religious tenets by different ideologues. At times, one negates
the other.
Here, many mullahs or other religious dignitaries say so many
things under the cover of religion to serve their own purposes. With their
connivance, self-seekers feign ignorance to abuse lslarn.
The iourney is an expression of our long-standing perceptions. Even

today, the women of this society are unorganized. They are feeble, not
only as a class, but also in their individual mental make-up. They tend to
accept any misfortune as ordained by God or as the quirk of fate instead
of analyzing those with their own faculties. This is the reason why so many
divorces, rernarriages, etc., are taking place.
Rabiya, the protagonist of our iourney, comes from such a society of
women, yet she shines in a unique role. It is, therefore, our aim to highlight
this role played by Rabiya, only for the cause of a bright future.

'

The Director
Baharul lslam (born in l 963) graduated in acting from the National School
of Drama. He has acted in 60 plays in Assamese, Hindi and English. In
T 992-93, he joined Tara Art of London as an actor for the production of
t the play Heer Ran/ha. The play extensively toured UK and Japan.
Baharul Islam has designed and directed many plays like Urukha,
Yayati, Sarai Ghat, Abhimonnyu, Simar Sipare, Guwahati Guwahai, Holi,

Apeksha, Court Marshal, and Moi Premar Pin/arat Bandi. These plays have
been performed in different festivals including Bharat Rang Mahotsav,

