Nandikar, EZCC, Sangeet Natak Akaderni, Prithvi Theatre, Nehru Centre.

He designed and directed a play in Kannada, Modola Gita tor Ninasam
Repertory Company, and also Edward Albee’s play, Who is Afraid of Virginia
Woolf? tor the National School of Drama Repertory Company, New Delhi
(2006). Recently, he directed Anton Chekhov's play Seagull tor Rangayan
Repertory Company.
He is the recipient of Sanskriti Samman trom Eka Abong Koekion

Publication, Guwahati, and Manohar Singh Srnriti Award from National
School of Drama approved by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India
for his contribution to theatre in 2005.
Baharul Islam has written three plays Jatra, Simar Sipare (Beyond the
Obvious) and Apeksha in Assamese. Last year, he also wrote a book on
drarnatics, Al<anto Monere in Assamese.

Baharul lslarn has acted in many tele-tilms, serials and films in different
languages. At present, he is the Director of Seagull and is also a member
of Indian Council for Cultural Relations.
The Group
Established in l 990 at the initiative of a few theatre activists and some NSD
graduates, Seagull has emerged as one of the prominent theatre troupes
of Assam. The main obiective ot Seagull is to improve the existing style and
form of Assamese theatre with systematic practice and training.
Apart from its repertory company, Seagull has a theatre academy,
publication wing, children academy, and a studio theatre. The group
organizes theatre festivals/workshops, and also the B.\/. Karanth Memorial
Lecture. It works with spastic children as well.
In September 2005, Seagull introduced weekend theatre in Guwahati
at their Seagull Studio Theatre.
C0 st

Baharul lslarn, Bhagirathi, Nirmali Buragohain, Feroza Begum, Chandan Deka,
Dinesh Kakati, Barkha Bahar, Jiya Bahar, Arundhati, Moromi, Irani Mahanta,
Chand Mohammed, Kushal, Dhruba, Moon Rahman, Papori, Manas Pratirn

Neog, Shankar Jyoti Raikhowa

C red its

Story: lrnran Hussain

Light: Akan Das, Sailen Kakati
Costume and Property: Nirmali Buragohain Moromi

Set in-Charge: Dhruba and Moon Rahaman
Singer: Chand Mohammed
Production Controller: Chetan Jagtap

