T H U RS DAY 7 S E PTE MB E R

S i d d ha rth a (MALAYAMM)
Written by CS. DEEPAN
Based on Hermann Hesse's novel, Siddhartha

Designed & Directed by JYOTHISH M.G.
Abhinoya Theatre Research Centre, Thiruvananthapurarn
Duration: 7 05 minutes

The Play
The play Siddhartha is a stylized adaptation of the celebrated novel of
the same name written by the Nobel laureate, Hermann Hesse. The story
depicts the life of Siddhartha, a Brahrnin youth and his iourney towards
self-realization. The Vedas, scriptures and his life as a Shrarnano Sonyasin
with his friend Govindan could not quench his quest for truth. They come
across Buddha and his teachings. Govindan becomes a disciple of Buddha
but Siddhartha decides to resume his iourney alone.
Siddhartha comes across Karnala, a Devadasi, and drowns himself in

love and passion. Karnaswarni, the typical trader takes him through the dark
alleys of amassing wealth and riches. But from both he learns one lesson:
the emptiness of wealth and relationships. It was Vasudevan, an ignorant
ferryman who helped him cross the river to the other bank of love and
passion once years ago. Now, he comes back to the same riverbonk and
there he meets the Vasudevan again. Vasudevan teaches him a new lesson
— to listen, to listen to the flow, to listen to the flowing river. As deeper
understanding blossoms in Siddhartha he floats and flows.

Director's Note
Human beings are embittered from their very birth. Ideologies, words,
hopes, anxieties . . . all colour the very way in which he perceives himself
and everything that engulfs and enmeshes him. Tradition exclusively claims
the sanctity of being natural and respectable. Truth as is imposed has to be
mechanically accepted. May be, many amongst us are inherently against
all kinds of exploitations and irnpositions. But peep deeper into ourselves
and we find, our own traditional habits, customs, and webs of faiths and
prejudices determining our mind structure. This makes us subservient and
slavish to power structures and exploitative edifices. May be we are highly
respectable, blemishless and perfect! But, alas, a respectable clean perfect
man can never reach anywhere near the truth. It cannot be discerned through
ideologies, nuances of words or colours of hopes and anxieties.

