A strong hand gives bombs to their hands. They tight among themselves.
Dream breaks. Daughter screams. Faceless enters, wearing a bright dress.
The kidnapped is behind him, also smartly dressed and a branch in his
hand. Both at them tilled the entire space with the plastic glasses. Daughter’s
conscience is divided. She wants to collect the glass, while another reject.
The daughter gets tired and starts gasping.
The taceless strangles the kidnapped. He wears the kidnapper's cap and
kill him and goes away. Daughter cries over the dead body. She questions
herself, llHow many miles a man walk down before you call him a man!
How many times the canon balls tly before they are banned. How many
times the exploitation will remain before it withers away.”
All questions bring waves in the mind at the daughter. The questions
towards the genuine human. Though, the answer is blowing in the wind!

Director’s Note
My theatre has a deep sense of commitment towards its society and time.
So the content and the form of theatre are complementary. I never choose
a subiect which is not challenging. Thus I believe in a continuous process
of experimentation. Each production is renewed in its stylization, gesture,
etc. I always maintain some access towards my actors. The access is such
that they cannot recreate the same thing. It is my challenge. This challenge
gives birth to a new concept. May be, it is not so classical or aesthetical in
the arena of art, but it is my necessary condition for art.
Tritiya Juddha — Third War — is the mirror at the contemporary events.
It is our duty to pertorm a subiect in this festival as we did in our own place.
We do not believe in the so-called aesthetics of entertainment. On the
contrary, we have our own aesthetics of theatre. Theatre is not imitating

some thing. It is the tete at creation. Theatre is truth, as truth as hunger.
Primary thought at the play is mine, but ultimately it is shaped by the
artists.

The Group
In 1977, Probir Guha established the Living Theatre (at present Alternative
Living Theatre) in Khardaha, a small town on the outskirts at Kolkata,
gathering around him a group of disenchanted and unemployed local
youth from improvised lower middle-class families. He chose Khardaha as
the location for the Living Theatre so that the group could resist the values
of urban drama. He recruited actors from the underprivileged class to create
theatre shaped by their own struggles and suffering. The Alternative Living
Theatre pertorms almost exclusively in the small towns and villages of West
Bengal and neighbouring states and abroad. It has consistently attacked
cornmunalisrn, obscurantism, oppressive social conventions, superstition
and political apathy, while attempting to build up new ideals and saw the
seeds of change in human minds.

