The Alternative Living Theatre believes in the overpowering impact
of direct and innocent communication and we have theretore reiected
conventional nations at dramatic torm. Our productions rarely follow a linear
mode at narration. Violent in momentum and impassioned in utterance, our
dramatic compositions are almost like choreographed variations on a central
theme, emerging as extended metaphors in choral speech, ensembling
movements, dance and song. The actors improvise scenes and movements
based on an analysis of their own while others respond to an emotive subiect
or event. We believe that drama must belong to everybody.

The Director
Probir Guha (b. I 947) is a noted playwright/director who has been acting
and directing since I 965, particularly in agitprop and non-proscenium
theatre. He has worked with several prominent directors like Jerzy Grotowski,
Eugenio Barba, Peter Brook, J. B. Hatch, Anna Hallprin, Roger Simon, Richard
Schchner, Peter Schurnan, Toshi Tsitchuteri, and John Martin. He has also

worked with dancers like Saniukta Panigrahi, Micado Cadet, Kalsuko Aiuma,
Sudhir Kumar, Lokendraiit Singh, Oiha Mangi, Hu Chun Lin, Krishna Das,

and P N. Raieev.
Probir Guha has written and directed 56 plays tor ALT and others. He
was Creative Initiator tor the proiects, Aditi and Mela tor the Festival of India
in United States. He also directed a play, We Are with Castillo Theatre Centre,
New York. Apart from being actively involved with theatre activities in West
Bengal, he has participated in several international workshops, seminars
and meetings in Poland, Germany, Denmark, USA, Japan, Thailand, Hong
Kong, Japan, and Sweden. He has worked with many NGOs in India,

Bangladesh and Nepal.
Probir Guha is the president and tounder member at NATI (Nationwide
Alternative Theatre Initiative). He received national senior fellowship from
the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government at India. He
has also received commemorative awards from American Biographical
Institute.
Probir Guha has acted in two films by Buddhadev Das Gupta and Sandip
Ray. He has also directed two teIe-tilms in Santhali and in Bengali.
Cast
Tapan Dos, Surnan Dos, Goutam Sen, Subhadeep Guha, Supratik Roy, Zakir

Hussain, Barun Kar, Sanioy Chakraborty, Sukanto Roy, Robin MondaI, Tapash Das,

Sayantani Indu, Probir Guha

C red its

Assistant Director: Tapan Das

Music: Subhadeep Guha

Light: Barun Kar

