and externally. She comes to her village and tries to live as a Jogtin, but is

ignored by the villagers.
In the course of time, she enters into a Zulwa relationship with Krishna,
a divorcee from the same village, who had stopped her from committing
suicide. Krishna also takes advantage of her and . . .
Nature too plays its role and Jagan attains motherhood. She gives
birth to a daughter, but her breasts go dry. The infant is hungry and sick.
Yellu feels that Jagan should surrender totally to the power of Yellarna so
as to recover and be able to feed her child. On the other hand, Jagan feels

that her natural fountains have dried up because she has surrendered too
much.
One rainy day while Jagan is in an agitated state she throws all the
idols into a river. Yellu tries to stop her but she fails, and she throws herself
into the river. Within a few moments Yellu and the idols disappear.
Jagan feels as if the pressure of ambiguous symbols and the system,
which valourizes those symbols, has been removed and now she can be
her free and natural self.

Director’s Note
Zulwa was my first directorial venture in Marathi in l 987, as part of the
scheme for Assistance to Young Theatre Directors, instituted by the Sangeet
Natak Akademi, New Delhi.

Based on the life experience of the Jogte community of Ma ha rashtro, the
play questions the power and compulsion of Tradition. The manifestations
of a caste-ridden society are not only complex, but also oppressive. Denial
of the very basic requirements of survival not only hampers growth, but also
destroys dreams, aspirations and often the very flow of life. The preservation
of tradition may endanger life —— hence the demolition of the former becomes
necessary to restore even a semblance of balance and humaneness. The
events are dense and the protest of Jagan intense, but it marks the beginning
of awareness; of attempting to take control of one's destiny. The form and
flavour that fills the performance is born of the ethos and environment from
which the characters and the story have emerged. Not only devices, they
are facets of the life of the characters and often their predicament.
Today, even after having performed it for over two hundred times, there
is a surprising spirit of improvisation that surfaces on its own. The play has
been presented at different places at the state and national levels.
The Director
A graduate in Arts (1 978) with a one-year proficiency certificate course in
Drarnatics (l 979) from the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University,
Aurangobad, Woman Kendre completed his post—graduation in Dramatic
Arts from the National School of Drama (NSD), Delhi in T982. Then he
devoted two years to practice—oriented research on the folk theatre of Kerala

