ot outlandish experiences stops his journey in the middle, and returns home.
This story has a comical touch, and is an example of Renu’s lighter side of
creativity.

Director’s Note
While adapting, music designing and directing these two stories of late
Phanishwarnath Renu, every time I felt that l was going through a personal
experience.

The village and Sabhachatti described in Panch/ight are like those in
my own village or in any village. All through the work, I was aware ot the
relevance of Renu's experiences. I have tried to make the presence ot Renu's
soul telt.
Na Jaane Kehi Vesh Mein is a comical one. As a frequent railway
traveller | feel that Bihar is same as described in the story. Prosperous, alive
but talks more and listens less.
All the artists ot the group are from the rural environment and they have
no technical excellence or background, but their heart is full of enthusiasm.
l have used their simplicity and sincerity with awareness. My concern is to
present the rural essence and sensibility without any damage.

The Director
A diploma holder in acting trom National School of Drama, Viiay Kurnar
has turther honed his talents with special training at the Film and Television
institute of India in ] 996. He later studied at the Central School of Speech
& Drama, London under the Charles Wallace lndia Trust Scholarship.
Viiay Kurnar has acted in several productions by prominent directors.

He has also given ] 3O solo pertormance ot Hum Bihar Mein Chunav Lad
Rahe Hein, acted and directed by himself.
Viiay Kurnar has directed over 25 plays including Suryamukh, Dhurt
Samagam, Chamatkari Joota, Vidushak, Satyagrah, Charandas Chor,
Makkhichoos, Leela Nandlal Ki, Bade Bhai Saheb, Lok Gatha, Andher
Nagari, Khadia Ka Ghera, Matadeen Chand Fir, Gopi Gain Bagha Bain,

Panch Naad Ka Paani, Dus Din Ka Sotyagrah and Azad Hind Radio Se tor his

group, Manch Art Group. He has conducted over ] 5 workshops in ditlerent
parts ot the country, and has written and directed a tew plays for children.

The Group
With two hundred pertormances ot titteen plays to their credit, the Manch Art
Group is one of a maior theatre troupe, established in Patna in 1993. The
Group has organized a number of production-oriented theatre workshops
with school children in and around Patna, and theatre festivals in Patna,
Gopalgani, Naubatpur, Gaya and Mumbai.

