MONDAY 11 SEPTEMBER

Ghumayee (DOGRI)
Written, Designed & Directed by BALWANT THAKUR
N at ra n g , Jam mu
Duration: 8 5 minutes

The Play
The play, Ghumayee, based on a Dogri folk-tale of a hilly village, opens
with a Vidai scene after the solemnization of marriage. The bride is being
carried in a Dali to her in-law’s place.
As the tough climb begins, Dulhan (bride) feels thirsty and asks for
water. Her request is ridiculed and no heed is paid. As the track becomes
strenuous, her thirst intensifies and repeated entreaties end up with an
assurance of water at the next available source. When the thirst becomes
unbearable the Doli is put down and the journey is brought to halt. All and
one are requested to do the needful and arrange for water. A water source
is sited but it is miles deep down in a gorge, and is extremely difficult to
reach. Repeated requests of bridegroom fail to evoke any response, as the
job requires superhuman effort. The plight of Dulhan prompts a young man
to volunteer for the job. All present warn him of the probable consequences
but he is undeterred.
During the ensuing discussions, the groom in an insolent tone bets

away his bride in lieu of water. Thus begins the struggle for water. The
young man, putting his life in extreme danger, overcomes all hurdles and
ultimately succeeds in bringing the water. As the bride quenches her thirst,
the young man falls dead out of sheer exhaustion. ln stunned atmosphere,
the Baratis decide to continue with the iourney but Dulhan refuses to do so.
She declares herself a widow and cries out a wail (Ghumayee) sanctifying
the significance of human relationship over the most prized relationship of
marriage bound by mere rituals.
An effort has been made to express this tale through imaginative visuals
by utilizing the best of the vocal and physical resources of the team.

Director’s Note
This play is based on a popular Dogri folk tale Laare Laari Da Dhakk (A
Hillock of Bride and Groom) of the Jammu hills. Ghumayee is a singing
tradition of the Dogras and is sung by the bride when she leaves her parents'
home after the marriage rituals. l have named the play, Ghumayee, because
it is an emotional outburst of a bride wherein she acknowledges her gratitude
towards her relations while singing at the time of her Vidai. This highlighted
the hollowness of marriage, despite the rituals of bonding of two individuals
through wedding traditions. Also the fact that bride musters enough courage

