His early productions like Nee/i Jheel, Nanhen Kandhey Nanhen Pair,
Chouraha, Singhasan Khali Hai, Kaun Nachaye Naach and Rang Nagri,
established him as one of the creative directors of the times. He won the State
Academy Awards for best productions for four consecutive years ] 983-86.
With his Dogri play Bawa Jitto, he is the first person from this Duggar land
who put Dogri theatre on the national scene.
As a playwright, Balwant Thakur has eleven plays to his credit. Prominent
among these are Ek Sangharsh Ka Ant, Yeh Laash Kiski Hai, Aa/ Ki Aurat,

Anpadein Da Hall, ls Gran Gi Surg Banai Leyo, Suno Eh Kahani, Ghumayee
and Hum Hain Na.
Balwant Thakur is a recipient of several awards including the Sanskriti
Award, All India Citizen Award, Abhinayak Sarnrnan, the Gurushree and

Sapatrishi Sarnrnan. He was conferred with the Sangeet Natak Akaderni
Award for direction in theatre in 2002. He has also received The Ford
Foundation (USA) Grant Award for his proiect, Search for New Theatre
Language.

Balwant Thakur has presented his plays in several theatres festivals in
India and in UK, Denmark, Bangkok, Dubai, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia,
Stratford and Dhaka.

The Group
Natrang, a full-time theatre research and promotion organization, was
established in ] 983 in Jammu, (Jammu & Kashmir). With over ] ] 00 shows
of 87 plays, the group has participated in 84 theatre festivals.
The group is equipped with a Studio Theatre, 0 library, resource centre,
and a repertory company, and also operates Children’s Weekend Club,
Natrang Rural Theatre, Sunday Theatre, etc.

The group’s mission is to make Natrang a model institution, which
could help bring a change in the social, cultural and intellectual life of the
region. It would be the most preferred destination for the artists, writers
and intellectuals where creative exchanges take place. A platform which
would offer immense opportunities for artistic collaborations, research,
experimentation and creative expression. A dream world for children — a
space for their creative outlet and artistic growth.
Cast
Baap/Guiiar—l: Suresh Kurnar

Dulha: Neerai Kant
Dulhan: Aniali Abrol
Aadmi: Deepak Virdhi/Prashant Sagar

Mama: Prashant Sagar
Sasur: Sat Salarbi

C h a d pa l a : Pa wa n Ve rm0

