To Celebrate the 50th A nn iversary of India 's In depen d Ice __ ४ प

Urdu A cademy Delhi

.
- .. -_. .._.-, '_
. 'दृ... ._. _. I‘

(Govt. N. C. T. of Delhi)

क्या?

222.20

Presents

HTND USTAN HAMA
A play prepared during Academy '5' theatre Workshop
0n 23rd May 1997 at 6.30 PM, Pearay Lal Bhawan, New Delhi
Script : A nis Azmi ; [Music .' Govind Parsanna ; Dircetion : Ajay Manchunda
For the last ten years Academy is organising Children 's theatre Workshop regularly. Every we Sellect
‘ a graup of30 Children between the age group of eight to sixteen years. Most of our students are from the wall
city Govt. Schools. This one month duration theatre Workshop is unique experiment of interaction and ex— ‘
changes of th augh ts among the students.
_The most signiﬁcant contribution of Urdu Academy in these Workshops to words h elping the child is disco v-

ering his/her talent and become aware of her / his perception. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of India ’5 Independence. children were given different topics related to this subject, and the theme taken up for the play is
also related to our Independence. In this Workshop as Well as our previous one the children were given theatrical inputs where they embibed skills in acting, articulation, movement, music and improvisation.

पृ

The show of "Hindustan Hamara" is a result of four weeks of assiduous theatrical training and hard
work of Sh. Ajay blanchanda, Director ofthe workshop and the play. The children as well as the assistent di-

rectors, musicians, technicians and others must be appreciated for their hard work to make this workshop 1 99 7
a great success.

About the Play
As a mater of fact Academy desided earlier that this year 's play prepared during theatre workshop will be

. related to India 's Indepemlence, as a mark to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Indias Indepemlense. Since
these children are justfresh as far as the acting is concern, and they never participated before in any stage activities, so we desided to avoid any heavy make up and any historical charector as well.
३
A soldier oanzad Hind Fauj returns to his native Town after a laps of 55 years, heﬁnds himself in a totaly different milieu, that is not the mother [and of his dreams. He is disappointed but the solace provided by the
young children of his Town.
३ क्वे
'
'
'
'
You willﬁndfact, ﬁction andfantacy altogather in the play "Hindustan Hamara ". Lyrics of :‘Faiz Ahmad
. Faiz, Makhdoom Alohiuddin & blakhmoor Saeedi are being used in this play.

' , About the Director
Ajay Mane/nuth is a young Actor and a Director as well. He is engaged in the theatre right from his
childhood am! has made a big impact of his talent by training the children in different arts of theatre through
workshops organised by Sahitya Kala Paris/tad, National School of Drama, Nehru Yuva Kendra, Lions Club,
North Zone Cultural Center am] a number of Public Schools. His association with Urdu Academy has been
very admirable. He started his career as a theatre actor and made big leaps through various tele films T. V. serials. He directed some children plays for Doordarshan also. He has formed a Theatre Group Known as "Ka-

laksh ", His guidance am] training in thefield oftheatre has been of immense value to the Children.

About the Writer :
A nis Azmi 's attachment with theatre continues unabated with heart and sou/for the last two decades. He is
the founder member of "Paryog Theatre Group " and has acted in all the plays staged by the Prayog, and also
acted in all T. V. Serials and Teleplays directed by Sh. M. K. Raina. He translated Badal Sircar, Bhisham Sahni,

Brecht, and Tirpurari Shanna 's plays into Urdu. He has written a number ofplaysfor children like "Alla/1ddin Ka Chiragh " Rahk A ur Dhuan, Dadi Amman Alan Jao, Gadbad Ghotala and Eid-Gaah Staged recently in
Delhi and outer areas. He has contributed Several articles on theatre and compiled a bibliography on Urdu

theatre. He is regularly writing a weekly column " Theatre " in Qaumi A waz.
f

"हैं 0 ,

