Liar and bumpkin
Ananda Lal
nniversary productions often inject a boost into neglected or forgotten works. Two Bengali plays earn a
fresh lease of comic life as a result of such initiatives.
Anya Theatre marks the ninetiethyear of Jyotirindranath
'I‘agore’s death with a revival of Alik-babu (in whose title role
the 16-year-old Rabindranath made his acting debut). Try as
many might, nobody has successfully identiﬁed its source,
though Abanindranath conﬁdently declared it to have come
from Moliere. Knowing Jyotirindranath’s Francophilia, one
could even think of Corneille’s TheLiar, given the synonymous titles. But none of them clicks perfectly, and more and
more, I believe we should regard it as original, albeit undeniably inspired by the Molierean touch and template.
For a merrily mendacious improviser like Alik Prakash,
you need an actor like Kamal Chattopadhyay [picture, left],
whose ﬁnesse with dialogue, timing and imperturbability ignites the farce after a slow start. It takes twohands to clap, of
course, and the director; Arna Mukhopadhyay, ﬁnds a match
for himin Chiranjib Nath as the protean Gadadhar, especially
inthe guise of the embarrassingly politically-incorrect Chinaman [picture]. Banhi Chakrabarti (Alik’s belovedHemangini), Sanat Chandra(her sceptical father) and Susmita
Hati (her widowed maid) also contribute to the fun. But the
omission of nearly all the rich songs of Jyotirindranath is a
sad loss, and using a black backdrop completely defeats the
spirit of such a sunny knockabout, which demands colours
and bright lighting.
Padatik-OGLAM celebrates Sombhu Mitra’s birth centenary with his lighter piece co-written by AmitMaitra, Kanchanranga, embeddedwith his social critique of how city folk
treat rural menials working for them. The poor Panchubecomes a scapegoat about to get sacked, when word arrives रे
that he may have won a lottery, hearing which the family does
an immediate volte face in their attitude to him, before the
ﬁnal reversal that the newspaper printed the wrong ticket
number; and things go back to square one.
Janardan Ghosh directs sympathetically, buthis depiction
of the “village bumpkin” stereotype actually does an injustice by perpetuating such insensitive myths. He also swings
wildly from extreme slapstick in the ﬁrst half to high melodrama in the second, abandoning any middle ground. He
nonetheless moulds Narendra as a slow-witted Panchu and
Madhurima (the maid who fancies him) into excellent performances, both sporting mobile facial expressivity. In their
turn, the oppressive master and mistress of the house (Robin
Sengupta and Anuradha Das) effectively add to the stratiﬁed
३
’
'
class picture.

