मृ 27 July

TESAWA WAPAL
( Manipuri )
Produced by : Cosmopolitan Dramatic Union, .Tmphal
Written & Directed by : Niladhwaja Khuman
Synopsis :
The King of Moirang engaged an old Khuyol couple to protect
the Tesawa Wapal (' a grove of small bamboos ). Because it was

believed that. if the grove was unclean the people of Moirang
might suffer. But a young deer occasinally intruded into the grove
and enjoyed the tender leaves of the bamboos. The news reached
- the King. He was furious with the old couple. . He called for an
हुँ explanation. The old couple promised to protect the grove at any
३ cost. The season changed : monsoon, autumn, winter, spring.
Every living being enjoyed the changing moods of the season. But
the old couple could not enjoy. They were born to protect the
grove, to obey the order of the King.
D irector 's Not-e :

No more protests for them. No human rights. They are born
to obey. The devices and forms used in the play are derived from
Manipuri traditional theatre like Lai-Haraoba, Manipuri martial
arts, Moirang Parva and other narrative art forms.

. The Group :
Established in 1965, The Cosmopolitan Dramatic Union,
Imphal, has about 73 productions to its credit. Participated in
various state and national level drama festivals, the Group has
earned many awards and prizes. It has conducted several WorkshOps and organised several state level festivals.
Cast Er Credits :

Hanuba : N. Rajen Meetei ; Hanubi : S. Amusana (‘hanu ; Shadanba Ningthou : Th. Kunjabihari Singh ; Shaji Laba: Ranjit Singh ;
Shaji Amorn : Reena Devi ; Shaji Macha : O. Prafullochandra Singh ;
Chorus : L. Shamungou, K. Lalitkumar, Ak. Kcnedy, Shanta Singh,
Gandhi, Surendro, Achouba, T. Shantikumar, R. K. Imo Singh,
Ng. Indira Devi, S. Nirmala, Ng. Sanarei Devi, L. Ibema Devi.

Stage : Th. Hemehandra ; Light : L. Broiendro ; Music : Chorus
( Cosmo ) ; Make up : Cosmo ; Costumes : Ch an ilal Gosha mi ;

Script & Direction : Niladhwaja Khuman.
Niladhwaja Khuman ( b. 1 948 ) :

Playwright and Director.

Wrote and Directed more than 15

plays. Conducted several workshops.
Participated in several
festivals of national repute and earned many prizes and honours.

