'3 O J u l y
K U P R AT H A
( Assamese )

Produced by : Nata-Sainik, North Lakhimpur ( Assam )
Written & Directed by : Ali Hydar
- Synopsis :

The play speaks the saga of a country—in-doldrums. Devastated
by the terrible flood which occurs every year, the peOple of this
country had the taste of many horrifying things like famine, scarcity,

. 'cholera etc. Moreover, they became a plaything at the hands of the
Chief and his subordinates who ruled in this country. The Chief
' asked the people to migrate in order to save themselves from the

havoc. The man who came ﬁrst would be sacriﬁced in order to restore the past condition of the land. It was the traditional superstition and belief of the people. However, it was created by the Chiefs
for their own beneﬁt. PeOple raised protest and revolt against this

tradition.

It disturbed the peaceful life of the Chief.

D i rector's Note :

'

The production tries to experiment the folk-styles of Assam like
Husari-Bihu and Dhuliya-Oja. Besides, it attempts to utilize the
acting arena in Assamese traditional and folk theatre.
The Group :

Nata-S'ainik has come into existence to create healthy and scientiﬁc theatrical atmosphere in Assam. One of its cherished aims is to
create social awareness among the people by putting up productions
based on the rich folk heritage of Assam.
Cast 8- Credits :

Dhulia .oja : Sisuram Hazarika ; Talia ( I ) : Bhairab Bharali ;
Talia (II ) : Suraj it Bhuyan ; Dhulia : Puwal Dutta ; Bali : Ali Hydar ;
Pradhan : Nazim Ahmed; Sewak : Atul Gogoi ; Kanya : Mondita
Borah ; Ghatak : Mina Borah ; Biplab : Keshab Kunch ; Nachani :
Banti Hazarika ; Bihuwas: Bhuban Dutta, Munin, Abu Ahmed, Debananda Saikia, Bhabani Kumar Bhuyan, Vanlal Vuana, Pankaj Loshan
Borah, Jatin Dutta ; Bihuwatis : Devi Hazarika, Prabina Hussain,

Maya Gogoi, Imrana Hussain, Eti GOgoi.
Choreography : Srnt. Banti Hazarika, Bhairab Ch. Bharali ;
Music : 8111, Kalpana Kalita ; Sets: Bhuban Ch. Dutta ; Light :
Nazim Ahmed, Dadul Hazarika ; Costumes : Smt. Banti Hazarika ;
Fight : Indramoni Rajkumar ; Adviser : Ismat Halim, Prof. Heman
Gogoi ; Director & writer : Ali Hyiar ; Group leader : Ghana Kenta
Dutta .

A I i H yda r :
Has directed over 100 plays and composed over 50 dramas.

Attended several workShOps and conferencss relating to theatre.
Visited many places of India along with his Group.

