RAN G D H U L|
drawn
“Rangdhuli” is not a play in the strictest sense. It revolves around experiences of characters
from the Bedin community and the environment circling it.The performance has three parts:Th e H ave I i
Performance
Ch i I d re n

Stories run forward and backward as held together thematically by these structures.The stories,
too, are not exhaustive, but come to the fore through movements which at times are tentative and
at others tangible.The narratives, also, do not necessarily have a common point of view.
Characters in the Bar are telling the story to a listener, but the narrative of a son interferes, as
does his insistence on wanting to take his sister back home. Tracing the thread of his mother's life
we enter the l-laveli.TheThakur wanted to posses her and has his way.TheThakur's wife and the
Bedin woman develop their own story — which is not seen as proper. Hence the Bedin leaves.
Dance is a source of joy and the Bedin's generate joy in all. But post-performance their reﬂections
reveal that the joy is not given the dignity it deserves.This is revealed in Bedi n 2's bitterness.
A young girl has dreams of marriage.Another of freedom. So does a boy. Murnbai is a possibility.
Born out of wedlock,the chi idren have no father's name and this being the norm is not questioned
by Bedin l . The Thakur keeps up his liaison with her, but is unable to take responsibility.A male
actor who dons the female persona is his conﬁdante. He is like the Bedin who can sing and dance.
Nautanki was his forte till the Bedin stepped on it. In the process he is displaced.The community's
connection with the style is reconnected and enacted through the daughter.
Having reached the stage, Bedi n l manages her life with theThakur being a guest in her life.This is

questioned by the son.The children in the basti lead a life cut off from the mainstream and steeped
in denial of opportunities. Girl 2 and students try to build a new life, but are pulled back by
circumstances.The girl must go to M urnbai.
Son l questions his “illegitimacy” and the Thakur, though bound by traditions, must see his point.
The Bar could be raided as was Bedin l implicated for soliciting, a charge she resolves to question.
Marginalized thus, can the joy of dance truly exist?

