C H O REOG RAP HY
Malti Shyarn
Malti Shyarn is a professional dancer, teacher and choreographer. From the age of
l | , Malti received rigorous training under the tutelage of Smt. RebaVidyarthi and
then from Pandit Birju Maharaj. She belongs to the Luknow Gharana, which
deﬁnes a style of lyrical grace and technical precision.

Malti is a top grade artiste of the ICCR and an A grade artiste at Doordarshan. She
has given innumerable performances and has attended most major festivals in India. Malti has also
performed in various countries like Bangladesh, China, Greece, Hungary, Malaysia, North Korea, South
Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Syria, U K and USA.

Her choreographies include Rang for ICCR, 2005, Swapnapriya, Aanatya and Pravaha for
Kalashram,2004,2003 and 2005, and Moksha Parva, in aid ofTsunami victims,2005

At present she is teaching at the Kathak Kendra, New Delhi.

C H O REOG RAP HY
Gilles Chuyen
Gilles Chuyen is a dancer, actor and choreographer who is of
FrenchNietnamese/Spanish/German origin. He has been working in India for
the last l4 years, combining Indian theatre and dance traditions with
contemporary perspectives. He has major choreographic pieces and plays to his
credit, which have taken him to Pakistan, Singapore, China, Australia, South
Africa, the Seychelles, France, the UK, Germany and South America. He is
involved in ﬁnding the deeper meaning of life and healing through movement.
Director of the In-step Dance Company, he runs his own dance institute, Studio
Magenta, in New Delhi

Working on this play has been an exciting adventure, entering new territories and dance vocabularies,
meeting real characters and discovering their stories. My aim has been to trace back the choreographic
journey of these communities from the folk traditions of the village, to mujrah and nautanki and the
Bollwood inﬂuenced world of the dance bars. At the personal level, their journey touched me deeply by
making me aware of the issues of dignity and self respect related to the profession of the performing
artist.

