Synopsis
Scene 1

Few men & women come to visit Ellora. They are moved by the sculptures of Ellora.
They left the space and the space goes to 1500 years back. Gods and godesses are
seen. Keshav request to shiva to send him on the earth for one year because he falls
in love with Rambha. Shiva grants his proposal.

Scene 2

Keshav meets a farmer and asks about the way to Bombay. Keshav does not
understand the farrner’s vocabulary. In the mean time a bus comes but once again
Keshav fails to understand the conversation between him and conductor. Conductor
throws ,him away.

Scene 3

Keshav meets Shova. Shova brings him to her father. Her father tells Keshav about
his dream that whoever will come on that day he will be the husband of Shova. Father
dies after that.

Scene 4

Shova tells Keshav that whoever will be her busband he will be the priest of the
temple. hooligans come in that moment. They beat Keshav and takes away Shova.

Scene 5

Karry brings keshav to Bombay. She plays Violin. She teaches Keshav to play Violin.
She falls in love with Keshav.

Scene 6

To sell a Veena Shova reaches there. She asks for Keshav but karry refuses her
proposal. In a party there Keshav comes to know that Rarnbha has gone to Pahelgaon.
He is ready to move to Pahelgaon with Karry.

Scene 7

Keshav finds the place where Rambha stays in Pahelgaon.

Scene 8

It is the last day of one year which was fixed by Shiva. He meets Rambha. He
Proposes her. Rambha is surprised. Keshav is desparate. As he moves to Rambha,

she throws a stone and runs away. Later she comes and takes him to guest house.
Scene 9
Scene 10

Rarnbha and Keshav start flirting with each other.
Bhagirath, a son of a rich buisenessman, asks Johri about the marriage between him
and Rambha. Johri tells that he can’t force Rambha about this. At the end it reveals
the life of Johri.

Scene 11

Keshav brings Rarnbha to take oath for marriage. Madan expresses his feeling for
Rambha. He, Bhagirath, lrin and kudasia discuss about their view point of life. Keshav
and Rambha share there mind with each other.

Scene 12

Rambha pressurise Keshav to earn money. Although Keshav wants to busy playing
Veena. But finally he comes out from there. He and Rambha discuss about the

