minority problem of this country. Topic of ccrnrnunalisrn also arises there. Madan wats
to write a book on Indian history. Rambha says that she can help him. Rambha
proposes Madan.
Scene 13

The debt of Johri slowly increses to Bhagirath. In the mean time Johri has changed
his mistress.

Scene 14

A group of Sadhus meet Keshav. They force Keshav to join their team. Keshav
refuses that. Maruti, a music director of film meets Keshav. He brings Keshav to his
home.
‘

Scene 15

Keshav accpets all the terms and conditions of the producer to be a hero of a film
except to take black money. For this reason he has to leave that place.

Scene 16

Keshav has come on the road. Tiwari learns Veena from him and gives him bread
and shelter. Tiwari tells that one girl wants to learn Veena. Keshav can teach her but
the condition will be that he has to give fifty percent of his earning. Keshav agrees.

Scene 17

That girl is Shova. Keshav is surprised to see Shova’s life- style. Shova tells him that
she has become the mistress of Johri. Keshav is stunned. Shova wants to hold him
but Keshav goes away.
Taking excess loan from Bhagirath forces Johri to sell everything, even Shova also.
Shova strongly refruses that. But her effort goes into vain.

Scene 18

Keshav meets Frendy. Frendy tells that he can join his troup but for that he needs
a Violin. It reminds Keshav of Karry.

Scene 19

Karry wants to take revenge. She askes for the price of Violin. Keshav has to surrender
himself to Karry’s desire.

Scene 20

Debt and debt force Johri to say to his daughter to marry Bhagirath. Rambha is in
two minds. She accpets to marry Bhagirath.

Scene 21

Shova is leaving for the village. Keshav meets her. Shova tells that Bhagirath does
not need her. She has got married with another person.

Scene 22

Keshav comes once again in Rambha‘s house. He comes to know that finally Rambha
has deceided to marry Madan.

Scene 23

Kashav meets Rambha. He kills Rarnbha.

Scene 24

Keshev comes to the cave of Ellora. Shiv explains him about the change of value for
love with the change of time. Keshav realises that.
Rambha comes out of her dream.

