Novelist

'

Born in 1914, Mr. Krishan Chander was educated at Forma Christian College, where he
completed his master’s degree in English. For a number of years he wrote for the Ambala
Tribune, and the weekly Northern Review, and then became attached to All India Radio.
But, dissatisfied with the government service, he moved to Bombay, where he continued
to write for the movies.
Mr. Chander spent the greater part of his life in Kashmir, where the beauty of nature left
a permanent mark on his aesthetic sensibility. Perhaps because of his early experiences
in Kashmir, and because of his sympathetic treatment of people, in his early stories Mr.
Chander displays a remarkable ability to deepen the effect of his portrayals of opressed
people by setting them within a context of exceptional natural beauty. A superb painter
of scene, from his very first collection, Tilism-e-khayal, he was unequalled in Urdu for
his ability to contrast effectively and painfully human cruelty with the lush scenery of the
mountains, rivers, lakes, fields and villages of Kashmir.
The themes of his work are as varied as they can be - romantic, social, psyshological,
political, national and international. in fact, he wrote about the whole gamut of
contemporary problems and human relationships. He was influenced by Marsixrn and
wrote with a purpose. Besides the kind of themes that Mr. Chander treated, what
accounted most for his general popularity was the unequalled charm of his writing style.
A prolific writer, Mr. Chander produced well over eighty volumes, which include more
than thirty collections of short stories and more than twenty novels. The major works of
Mr. Chander are:
Nazzare, Purane Khuda, Ek Violin Samandar ke Kinare, Ham vahshi hain, Ek girja ek
khandaq, Ajanta se aage, Toofan ki kaliyan, Kitab ka kafan, Ek gaddhe ki sarguzasht,
Meri yadon ke chinar, Dadar pal ke daeche, Dil kisi ka dost nahin etc.
Mr. Chander has been widely translated into many Indian and foreign languages.

Mr. Chander was one of the front ranking storywriter and novelist of Urdu. Perhaps there
is no other contemporary short story writer in Urdu.

Mr. Kishan Chander left this universe in 1977 leaving his creativity behind.

