Scenography and Illumination
Mr. Bose is one of the most prominent radical young theatre director of Contemporary
Indian Theatre who has also carved of his own niches in the field of Scenography
and Stage lllurninations through his own style of innovative stage techniques.
Mr. Bose has got Senior Diploma in ‘Direction’ from Institute of Indian Theatre Arts;
Calcutta, Graduated from National School of Drama in ‘Direction’, New Delhi and for
further studies under cultural exchange programme went to National Institute of
Dramatic Arts, Sydney, Australia in Design and Theatre Techniques.
Mr. Bose has worked with almost all the leading theatre directors of India and some
of them of international repute including Ebrahim Alkazi, Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth,

Bapi Bose

Ratan Thiyarn, Nissar Allana (Designer), Prof. Fritz Bennewitz (GDR), Konrad
Zschiedrick (GDR, Designer), Prof. Helrnich (GDR), Rodney Marriot (USA), Brian
Thomson (Australia, Designer), Peter Cooke (Australia, Designer) etc.
As an ex—member of the NSD Rep. Co. and for others Mr. Bose has acted in leading
or major roles for more than fifty productions, designed sets and lights for more than
seventy productions and directed for more than thirty productions including the much
acclaimed production of Nati Binodini for NSD Repertory Company and in 1997 to
celebrate the two occassions; the birth centenary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose
and the Golden Jubilee of Indian Independence, directed for NSD Repertory Co’s
prestigious Mega Multimedia production Dilli Chalo which was selected for Govt. of
India’s tribute ceremony ‘Tribute to the Nation’ and stage twice at the historical Red
Fort. Then Turup Ka Patta for SRC Repertory Company (Best Production 1999;
Sahitya Kala Parishad, State Govt. of Delhi and participated in NSD’s 2nd National
Theatre Festival Bharat Rang Mahotsav), Sanyasi Ki Talwar for SKP Rangrnandal in
2001, latest production of Socrates for Circle Theatre Company (participated in 4th
Bharat Rang Mahotsav in 2002) etc.
Mr. Bose has participated in Berlin Theatre Festival and visited other countries.
Awarded Fellowship from NSD, Senior Fellowship from Dept. of Culture, Govt. on
India and Netaji Sarnrnan from AIFB.

Mr. Bose has been in Visiting Faculty of NSD and various institutions of India since
1992. At present he is working as a Free Lance Designer, Director, Teacher and

Artistic Director of a new organization, is called Circle Theatre Company.

