Music Director
Born in 1953, Mr. Ghosh has started to learn Tabla from Pandit Vishwanath Bose, at the

Age of 7. He has also learnt Hindustani Vocal Music frcrn Acharya K.C.D. Brahaspati
and Srnt. Sulochana Brahaspati.
Mr. Ghosh has started composing music for plays from 1971 and started as a professional
freelance music composer and music director from 1974. He has composed more than
two hundred nationally popular plays for stage and television which includes:
Yasmin, Thehra hua pani, Jeewan ki ye - dir. by Shiela Bhatia

Khubsurat Bala, Yahudi ki ladki - dir. by Nadira Babbar
Anji, Ali baba, Tota bola - dir. by Rajendranath
Nati Bincdini, Dilli Chalo, Turup ka patta - dir. by Bapi Bose
Kajal Ghosh

Lal ghas per neele ghode, Shatranj ke khiladi - dir. by Prasanna
Bakri, Mitti na howe rnatrai - dir. by Kavita Nagpal

Uwalde tibbe - dir. by Ibrahim Alkazi
Exception the rule - dir. by Rudraprasad Sengupta
Mr. Ghosh has also scored and directed music for many Bengali plays, jatras and dancedrarnas. He has composed music fro many street plays for Jana Natya Manch and also
composed music for puppet theatre production Ramayana directed by Dadi Padarnsee.
Mr. Ghosh has compsoed music for many TV serials for Doordarshan which include
Titliyan, Police file se, Munshi Prernchand ki arnar kahaniyan, Tracking gold, Opening
stroke, Devi Choudhurani etc.
Mr. Ghosh has composed music for various TV films, which include Facrror Mian, Lal
ghas per neele ghore, Kath ki gaadi etc. For documentary films, he has composed
music for In Secular India, Troches of courage, Journey through Kashmir, Willow Warriors,
etc.

Mr. Ghosh has scored music for children’s Feature Film titled Mundu and Disha. He is a
member of I PTA for three decades. Director and founder-member of Progressive Songs
squad Parcharn and founder member of Sahrnat.
Mr. Ghosh has represented Indian in the Festival of Indian in London, East Germany
and Poland. As the director of Parcharn he has represented India in the Thirteenth

World Festival of Youth and Students hedl in north Korea in 1989.
In 1980 he has awarded for the best Musical Play by Sahitya Kala_parishad for the play
Yahudi ki Ladki. In 1982 he has been felicitated by Poland State Television. In 1986-87

he got the N.H.K. Award by Japanese Television. In 1989 he has awarded medals in
North Korea. In 1991 he has got the Kala Sahitya Evarn Sanskriti Puraskar by Pahal of
Faridabad. In 2000 Mr. Ghosh has awarded Sangeet Natak Academy Award for
contribution to Theatre Music.

