T H EAT RE
H A E»| E TA NV | R ' S
L EG A CY

That Th ih
e

Did

The late Habib Tanvir’s Naya Theatre is in
a rut. The new order is yet to find its feet.
by Namrata )oshi

AGEEN Tanvir is busy planning a musical evening in
Bhopal wovenaround the songs written by her ‘Baba’e
the legendary playwright, actor, director and poet Habib
Tanvir—to mark what would havebeen his 92nd birthday on
September 1. “There will he conversations, personal anecdotes,
readings from his autobiography.” She
speaks enthusiastically of what she
hopes will be a “cosy and intimate"

get-togetherofhis friendsand associates.
Talk to her about Tanvir’s most signiﬁcant legacy, the Naya Theatre group, and

tile enthusiasm pales a little. “Nothing
much is happening There's nothing
interesting on the horizon. It’s a lean

phase that comes in every artiste’s life,”
she confesses candidly, Quite evidently,
the group is in the midst oftunnoil and

churnin the बिष्ट ofﬁnancial constraints
and an alanning dearth of actors, pro-

ductions and shows. “Bikhmav511 aa guya
hai (Things are getting scattered)," says
an insider. And it has been so steadily
since Tanvir's death in 2009.

style, itdidn‘t derive from any schoolbut
were uniquely personal," say Dhrupad

duo Umakant and Ramakant Gundecha.
Tanvir also built thetheatre on a bedrock of dissent “He took on the state,
religion and casteisrn in plays likePouglz
Pandit...which infuriated organisations
like the VHF," saysAmitesh Kumar, a PhD

ce unfortunate, Much has to dowill]

scholar on Habih. “Complex ideas like

itbeing synonymous with Tanvir."in 08

development, caste were woven in an
outstanding way into the tex
says

when he couldn’t attend a show in Bar
eilly because ofillness. the audience u as

theatre director and actor M.1(.Raina, “It

most disappointed," recalls Ramach-

was truly people’stheatre." It's this radical activist spirit, much needed in the
cultural creations ofthe day, thatmakes
the steady loss of Naya Theatre's relc~

andra Singh. present director of Naya
Theatre. Nobody has beenable to ﬁll his

intimidating shoes. of late, the shows
haven't been coming, the group has mos-

tly been revivingand rehearsing the old
plays, In fact, dierc's been no new prod-

Established in 1958, Naya Theatre has
been a seminal repertory for many a

uction saveKer-ark. directed by Rhinocer

reason, “Itbroughtouta newdramaturgical language," sayswriter Yogesh Tripa-

working on at the time of his death.
A major issuehas beenthe lack ofgood
artistes. Many of Tanvir‘s staples hnru
either died or retired due to illncss. Chair

andra. It was a play Tanvir was himself

thi, Urban and rural performers came
together on a cottunon platform here,
“He believed the economically poor are
culturally the richest," says Jnn Natya
Manch actor-director Sudhanva Deshp-

Ram Yadav passed away and Devi LJl
Naaghad toleave because ०८५८०. शांणादृरू

ande. And so he helped bring the folk
tradition of Chhatt‘isgnrhi Nacha to the

mainstream. “The thought, the ideas,the

54

A still from the play Agra Bazaar

7September 2015OUTLOOK zu

Manikpuri, leftthe noun Whilesh
left ofhis own amt-ti, inn-e क्या Contran

