\

Nageen

~\

/"l“‘1‘hepolicewala’s r'oleX
in C/zarandas Charwas
about Habib’s own
I
struggles as a director;
about chasing actor's.”

'

,‘

I

. 5,13." fTom-the" हि ८ - '
versions onwhat led toAmardas’s departure, one group saying he didn’t feel like
continuing under the new dispensation,

another alleging he was forcibly retired.
“But if Habib saab himself was doing
theatre in his late 805, how can a person
in his 705 be asked to leave?” is their
query. New talent hasn’t been spotted
and inducted as easily either. “It has been

impossible to ﬁnd a Bhulwa Ram kind of
talent in the younger lot,” says Nageen.
Tanvir had the unique ability to keep
the group together despite surviving on
a pittance and operating out of a hole-inthe-wall ﬂat in Ber Sarai in Delhi, and
then later from Shamla Hills in Bhopal.
The lack of money hurts, especially now.
With budgets curtailed and shows not

even getting full fees, the group has been
ﬁnding it difﬁcult to ﬁnd sustenance in

the last few years. “The central grant for

'

Habib's daughter

Danish Husain

Actor

,'

1/

,

seen them rehearse out of a street behind

and depressed by the smallest of prob-

Kali Bari,” says Raina.
Actor Danish Hussain remembers the

lems but I have now decided to take the

Chhattisgarhi actors as being a mercurial
lot. ’I‘anvir alone could handle them. “No
one else can have that understanding of
human nature,” he says. The actors kept
coming, breaking up, going and coming

back again. “The role of policewala in
Char’andas Chor was about his own
struggles as a director, about steering and
chasing his actors,” says Danish. Nageen
admits to not being good at people management. “I am still learning. It requires

a different kind of skill,” she says.
She also admits to have been a reluctant
inheritor. Though she has been involved
in theatre, her passion has always been
music, something that she has always
been upfront about. The burden of the

20 artistes is minimal,” says Nageen.

legacy has weighed heavily on her.
But she’s now determined to turn thi—

“Every theatre has to have a home. I have

ngs around. “Earlier, I used to get anxious

7 September 2015 पुसु/हर-री.:-:-, हैं,

bull by the horns,” she says. A new production ofan old play, Mang‘lu Didi, is on
the cards and there is also news of
director M.K. Raina being roped in to

work on a brand new play in November.
Also, new nacha actors are being inducted for grooming and training in a
month’s time. “It’s a battle. I will try to get

it back on track to the best of my ability.
Something good will come out of it.”

One thing everybody agrees on is that
Naya Theatre is a cultural heritage that
needs to be kept alive. “My soul says
that it should keep growing for generations to come,” says Yogesh 'I‘iwari of

Naya Theatre. The Gundechas are
conﬁdent Habib’s legacy will never die:
“It will grow into another form. The
unique thought that gave birth to Naya
Theatre will last not just 50 but 500
years.” Amen to that. I:

55

