Lo o

ing at relationships

648 ३ '
The husband-wife relationships have been brought out well in the two short plays by Udaan
C. S UR E S H KU MA R

how lazy and forgetful the
husband दृ is, how the wife
Udaan performing arts, pre- overspends on cosmetics
sented two short plays last and the eating habits ﬁgure
Sundayat KMI’I‘ Auditorium, in their arguments. The art— ,
Narayanguda,
Hyderabad. ists Ekta Hinduja, and SauBoth the plays, with a dura- rabh Gharipurikar, had good
tion of 45 minutes each were chemistry and acted well,
written by Yogesh Soman in though there were few plac—
Marathi, translated into Hin- es Where the actors did go
blank, probably forgetting
di by Saurabh Gharipurikar.
Presented in local Hydera- the lines. However, they
badi dialect, the short plays quickly covered it up .The
were hilarious and enjoyable. scene where the couple go
The conversation between for a movie and the scooter
the two couples were so easy riding was done with perfect
to follow as we hear such kind comic timing. Finally, waitof tussles and discussions ing at the court they realise
amongst husband and wife in it is a second Saturday and
the court does not function
almost every household.
Bad acoustics robbed few on that day and blame each
funny movements ofthe play. other for the mistake and go
The whirring fans caused a lot back home without ‘getting
of disturbance to the artists a divorce’.
The play was directed by
and also the audience.
The ﬁrst play Miya ३ B1'W1' Krishna Shukl.
'
was about a husband and wife
Couple trouble
deciding to split, due to difThe second play Miya
ferences on various issues, Biwi ke Manthakkan, was
and meet up at the court for about tWO middle aged, midhearing. They wait for the dle class couple, where the
court to open and start dis— husband works in a bank
cussingthe issues that are the and the Wife a home maker. .
cause for their decision to They have two school—going
separate. Small issues like daughters. The couple come

. 3 A sceneﬁ'om one oftheplays staged
to a park and start discussing their problems. The
wife decides to make a little
more money to lead a comfortable life and suggests
that she start a catering
business.
However, , the

mock sales pitch by her falls
ﬂat. She later decides to go

for

roles

in

TV

serials,

which too ends in a ﬁasco in
the mock interview conducted by her husband. Both the
mock scenes were well written and enacted.
Rahul Reddy as the husband played the role with
ease and perfect comic tim-

ing. His every action acnl
dialogue made, the audienc‘
roll in laughter. 'VIarsha Ku
chimanchi as the wife wa
equally good in her por
trayal as the middle clas

woman.
This play was directed b;

Saurabh Gharipurikar.

