Tuesday, March 10, ’92

CHAKRAVYUHA
This play (called in Marathi original Andhar Yatra—A Passage to Darkness) is about
Vasundhara, an attractive, civilised, sophisticated and accomplished woman and the
four men in her life. She was once married to Parikshit, a petty entrepreneur who saw
some ‘exchange value’ in Vasundhara’s handsomeness and used it to extract some
licenses, grants and the like from a minister, Daulatrao Rajemane. Vasundhara leaves
Parikshit but in the process discovers the human being in Daulatrao. Her experience of
married life with Parikshit has been so devastating that she has made up her mind not
to marry again. She believes in leading an ‘independent’ lif'e, ‘parallel’ to others. While
teaching Sanskrit in a local university she gets emotionally and physically involved with
a Marxist Professor, Shreepad. She also discovers a ‘radical’ student leader, Ashwath,
whom she dreams of grooming as her son.
.

In spite of her best efforts to persuade him against it, Ashwath gets involved in
radical politics of Maharashtra—Andhra Pradesh border region. A doctor from the
’I‘elengana region is killed. Ash wath decides to go there to organise protest against what
clearly was a police killing. The doctor was killed obviously for his ‘wrong’ politics.
Shreepad tries to persuade him not to go, as in his view, the radicals, simply unmindﬁil
of the repressive power of the modern state, are themselves getting killed because of
their adventurism. ‘You must retreat when the enemy advances’, Shreepad quotes Mao
to Ashwath. Vasundhara ﬁnds Ashwath’s radical and even the more moderate
enterprise of Shreepad futile. She appeals to Ashwath not to go. In a life, which has been

one long story ofpain and separation, she does not wish to lose Ashwath. A traditionalist
of a kind, Ashwath and his future are her only hope. Ashwath goes nevertheless and
inevitably gets killed in a police encounter. Daulotrao tries and uses his politics to ‘save’
Ashwath but he does not succeed. All that he achieves is to forewarn Vasundhara about
the tragic fate that is awaiting Ashwath and possibly Shreepad. They are the modern
Abhimanyus entering a modern Chakravyuha. Shreepad is hurt by Ashwath’s death
and with Vasundhara’s almost existential concurrence, decides to throw in his lot with
Ashwath. He is promptly arrested by the police on the obviously trumped-up charges of
murdering one of the ‘radicals’ there.

The world, and indeed all hope, have ﬁnally ended for Vasundhara.

