Playwright's Note

'1'11३1९ is neither an autobit>graphical work, nor a play
based on Bhikhari Thakur's life. The central thought
behind writing this play is exploring the creative
writings and compositions of Bhikhari Thakur. The
play attempts to lead us through manifold layers of
India's rural society, giving an insight to their plight,
philosophy towards life and difficult circumstances
under \vh< >se mounting pressure Bhikari got moulded
into a writer and a theatre person. I l e was born amidst
the marginalised sections of our society and a barber
by caste and this very fact forms the basis from
which all his creative \vritings took off. Living
among them and still holding on to parching
theatre in his day to day activities, he proved to be

defiant enough to launch a drive against the
existing terror and cruelty in the society which
was inflicted \vith feudalism and casteism. In my
attempt to sketch such a personality, in places, I

have gone beyond facts. The presence of one
character in the play, ‘Kanila Babuni’ is the
natural outCome of one such effort. In the same
way many such fictional characters have been
incorporated in this text.
The times and life of Bhikhari Thakur was full
of political, social and economical turmoil. In
the turbulent period of India's struggle for
freedom, he takes up the cause of neglected and

agonised women of rural India. And this proved
to be the starting point in his long journey of
creative writing — a chosen path on which he
continues to tread along quietly till he breathed
his last.
For

Bhikhari

the

liberation

of

India

as

motherland had an equal and parallel meaning of
liberating the rural women of their miseries. He
fought relentlessly for the cause of women

abandoned by their husbands in search of

livelihood to bigger cities and towns and the
brutal practice of selling young girls to older
men on the pretext of marriage. Inspite of

strong opposition from the feudal set up
Bhikhari manages to become the ultimate voice
of millions of downtroddens. Bhikhari's

immense popularity makes him a legend in his
own life time.

I have received great help and guidance from my friend
Devendra Raj Ankur, a wellknown theatre personality in
giving the final shape to this script. Thanks! I am also

grateful to my friend Shri Sanieev. I lis autobiographical
novel ‘Sutradhaar’ helped me a lot in my research work. I
would also like to express my gratitude to all the artists of

N.S.I). Repertory Company, Repertory Chief Suresh
Sharma, Shri Suresh Bhardwai, Sanjay Upadhyay and
Parag 8 ar m ah .
H rishike sh Sulabh

