Set & Light Design

Suresh Bhardwaj did his MA. from Annamalai
University. He joined National School of Drama in
the year 1977, and graduated with diploma of
integrated Course in theatre arts. He was awarded the
NSD fellowship to work with newly established
Extension Program Department of National School
of Drma in the field of theatre academics in 198081.
he joined l\rIadhya Pradesh Rangmandal, Bharat
Bhavan as Technical Director from its inception, the
year was 1981 and continued till 1984. He made his
presence felt again in 1984 on his return to Delhi by

directing "Adhe Adhure" and 'Solah january Ki Raat'
for Sambhav theatre group. He has directed about
twenty plays for various groups and in workshops
throughout the country.
He is known for his contributions in the field of stage
lighting and has about more than 2()() plays to his

credit as Lighting Designer. He has also designed sets
for a number of plays.

He has travelled extensively within India and abroad
and has conducted a number of theatre workshops
with amateurs and professional organizations and has

directed many plays. His adaptations of Camu's "just

assassins" published as {jaayaz Hatyare' is well appreciated.
He has also worked for television and films as art director
and director. Some of his notable productions are; Ek

Kahani, Lekhu, Aapki Adalat, Tete-A-Tete with
Khuswant Singh, Uth Jaag Musaﬁr etc., He has also
produced

and

directed

a

series

on

rare

forms of

performing arts for Doordarshan i.e. Phad, Sannata,

Bhootaradhna and Veshagararu etc. He has visied
Srilanka, Maldives, Denmark, China, Thailand, Australia,

Singapore, japan, Mauritius etc. in connection with
various theatre workshops and play productions etc. He

directed

"Adhe

Adhure"

in Spanish

for National

University of Columbia.

His theatre group 'Aks' is well known and "Prem
Samvaad" "Saari Raat" and "Aur Agle Saal" are the
landmark productions he has directed for this group. He

has been on the visiting faculty of School since 1984 and
joined NSD on a regular basis in 1989 as lecturer of stage
lighting. He became associate professor in 1996 and has
also worked as Dean (Academics) ‘rom May 2000 to july
2002. He was apointed as Pro ~essor of Extension
Programs in February 2()( )2.

