Synopsis

The play opens with young Bhikhari standing on the

theatre group 'the natch party", taking up issues and

banks of (ianga, lamenting the deaths of his second
wife and a day old infant son, both victims of an

themes which could sensitise the rural community. But in

epidemic caused by the devastating floods. His first
wife died when he was still a child. To escape from the
painful memories of his past, he decides to migrate
to the neighboring village liatehpur. His friend and
mentor Ramanand Sagar tries to persuade him but in
vain. The untimely demise of his wife and child,
besides the ill—treatment meted out to him for being a
low caste proves too much for him to bear. Restless
and anxious he leaves his native village kutubpur and
settles down in Fatehpur, inspite of strong resistance
from h i s o ld parents.

As time passes by he overcomes his grief and marries
Manturni, his third wife. After their son and daughter
are born they return to their native place. Soon after
his return, the village is gripped with severe draught.
Leaving his family behind he moves to Kharagpur,

the process he is mocked by his own family members ६९८
villagers. Except Ramanand, who always remains loyal to
him and brings him solace in moments of despair.

Babulal also joins his group when he comes back from
Calcutta for good. The theme of wives abandoned by
their husband for the sake of livelihood motivates him to

explore his strength as a writer. He is haunted by the
memories of Tiwari Babu and Moti Bahu, who

committed suicide the same night, after being sexually
assaulted by their immediate family members and society
at large. He is shaken to the core by these incidents. But
Kamala Babuni is a constant source of inspiration for
him and shows him the way to give a creative outlet to his

suppressed feelings. Bhikhari's play 'Bidesia' brings him
instant fame and popularity . His other play 'Beti Bechwa'
is about the plight of young girls married to older men.
The feudal set up is not amused by his activities and tries
to create obstacles for him but he manages to steer clear

From there he travels through MednipurJagannath
Puri and finally reaches Calcutta. In the company of
his friend Babubal — a distant relative, he gets
acquainted with many facets of Calcutta's bizarre life.

legend in his own life time.

Once he returns from Calcutta, he channelises all his

The play 'Batohi' is a saga of his long creative journey

from all these difﬁculties. His play 'Gabar Ghichor'
questions the rights of women—folk. Bhikhari becomes a

resources and energy in organising Rarnlilas but is

from being a mere barber to an ultimate hero of the

still dissatisﬁed and craves for more creative work.

m 21 S S एँ S .

Later on he also succeds in establishing his own

