८.…स्थाब्बहिमृ0ष्ठे। Fun ART 30 MINUTES

Child’s Play

The eighth edition of Bel Sangarn will see the participation from Manipur, Arunachal

Pradesh and Gujarat for theifirst time. Warnan Kendre, director 0f NSD and Abdul
Latif Khatana, chief of Ti E Co, believe that folk theatre and local performing arts can '
'
only survive if children take it forward. SHRABASTI MALLIK reports
.,

/ ..

y

Cl‘lrjldren are open-mindedSperhaps morethan - (1]1,concept ofthe estival lies in lok kala (folkart);, _
e would even think. Ifyou‘are convinced that . It is the language ’ofthe people and the interesting दृ r _/
children take more interest in super fast games and ८. part is that it is per-"formed by children.”
BOthKhatana _ ¸ ‘d Kev dre is ofthe opinion that .
the latestXbox instead'oftheperforming arts, then
age of globalisation itis necessary that we ३
this
in
you might as well take some time off and visit the .
ट्वे t
eighth edition ofthe Bal Sangam festival. Organised stay rooted andgjc‘airry on. the tradition, preserve ५ '
, by‘ the. TSanskar Rang" '1in (Theatre In Education it and .propagateat.further’. .“fifhose. who are truly;j), a branch ofthe National School? of " global are Io'cvalsii’ElKendresaidand added, (f‘iThese.
this ३ ﬁve day festival, starting from . kids", largely, hail. from suburbs ofﬁrespectiven ३
‘
b er 21, will give youa glimpse ofhow pas— ' "_हुँहुँयांहेष्ठ _ but the paSsion with that they is
, ‘
; Sionately kids from the age of 5— 15 practice tradi— ' wonderful. It tells you so much abOut howfa‘mila
tional performing arts, and propagate them, too. iar they are with their local culture.” Khatana told
Every alternateyear, cultural institutes from var- us that the fgsﬁval is a celebration of the skill, tal— दृ
’ - दृ ३
ious states enrollthemselves forthe event aid this ' ent andthe iarious abilities thatthe kids acquire ' ३.
I
I. hood.
time is no exception either. It will see participati‘gn‘ ‘.३ right from
ofalmost 14, states with, Keral'a', Arunachal Pradg‘sh;

Gujarat, 112.111 and Manipurjoining the brigadé
for the ﬁrst time. The announcement ofthe festival was a proud moment for wamarﬂéndre, director of NSD as hebeliéves.that if performing arts
— music, theatreand dance —' have to grow then
it is imperative to sow the seeds at a young age. “It
is necessary to incorporate these into the acade—
mic curriculum instead ofbeing pursued as a hobby
or activity,” he said drawing reference to the developed countries who have accepted theatre as a com—
pulsory subject. “You need not look far. Goa has
incorporated it as a compulsory subject in the curriculum,” he added.
१ Bal Sangam presents the best of the regional
arts like Kala-ripayattu from Kerala, Bhand 'I‘chook
from Kashmir and the Monpa dance from
Arunachal Pradesh. The performances are away
from the classic and reﬂect the culture which is root—
ed to the place, which gives the place its unique
identity. Abdul Latithatana, chief ofTIE Co. said,

The ‘éri'rt‘t‘of‘the festival is just not to .show- ‘

case regional art but to also engage an inter‘ac‘—. . tion between theperforrners and Delllischool stu— - " i
dents. Speakingon the samelines Kendrasaid that~ ५ '

I the institution is in discussion with a few schools. - ३
acroSs. the city Where few of the participating .
groups can visit andgive a performance. f‘Ithill
bevery'goodmedium ifparents and students alike हूँ
can see and get to knowof the various art forms. मृ
It might as wellinte'rest a student tolearn a par- ३

' ticular'art,” he explained.
V
Khatana,
रे on the other hand, pointed out that
-‘
r . there is still need to spread awareness so that these मृ
arts might not fade away. “We do not take it- as

३ seriously as it should be taken. Thefuture of c111,? 3 .
:turaltheatre is only possible through children’s '

. theatre; Ifthey do not take forward'the localperforming arts, it will begin to dwindl‘e and even—
tually disappear,” he said but remains hopeful that
the festival would at least ignite interest of a few
children.
ष

