NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

National School of Drama and Asian

directors from our country and abroad.

system and annual activities of theatre

Theatre was established in the year 1959

Cohesively the experts and the students go

held in the schools. National School of

by Sangeet Natak Academy. Since 1975,

through various stages of building a

Drama Theatre—in—Education Repertory not

National School of Drama (N.S.D.) began

theatre production and again theoretical

only performs plays for children in the

its work as an independent body. it is

and practical knowledge. National School

school but also conducts theatre

of Drama has accommodated many

workshops with teachers and parents as

Development 8 Department of Culture of

foreign students from countries such as

wel l .

Government of India.

Mauritius, Nepal, Bangladesh and Nigeria.

National School of Drama imparts both

The School has an extension programme

Repertory has been continually producing

theoretical and practical training on

also. Under this programme School

plays and touring throughout the country

I completely financed by Human Resource

The National School of Drama theatre

theatre. Each student who gets selected for

organizes theatre workshops which aims to

and also have several international tours.

this 3 years training programme receives a

develop understanding about the baiscs of

Thus, National School of Drama has a

scholarship.

theatre. During summer vacations the

multidimensional identity. We hope, in

School conducts several such workshops

past 39 years National School of Drama

throughout the country.

have been instrumental in providing a fair

Students are selected interviews and on the रे
basis of a practical workshop. To run a
amount of theatre activity across the
well made training programme, apart from

Through it's Theatre-in-Education
country successfully.

it‘s own faculty of teachers, the School

programme the School targets to bridge

invites distinguished teachers, theatre .

the gap in between the formal education

