७

३३७- ~

~ K - ,.. ब्ल.- ८ .
- J: ५८८५{damp

it,“ हैं य

हँ ८७हाहैझूद्धिदृस्थि,

SANSKARRAnoirni
,

New Delhi

HSD Theatre-in-Education Company
TULSI-TULSI

झ

' “A"

,.

Writer and director : Abdul Lateef Khatana

ABOUT THE GROUP
Sanskar Rang Toli (TlE Co.) of National School of Drama was established in
October 1989 and is one of the important educational resource centre in the
country. The company consists of a group of actors-teachers working and
performing for children on regular basis.
The major focus of the company is to perform creative, curriculum and
participatory plays in schools specially designed and prepared for children of
different ages to create awareness and encourage children to raise questions,
make decisions and to adopt theatrical skills as an alternative.
The Company offers training workshops for teachers to create meaningful
theatre with children and also offer skills and tecniques to work in classroom
situation to make teaching - learing process more effective and enjoyable.
A regular annual feature is the one month intensive Summer Theatre
Workshop for children held inMay-June. Besides the training in theatre and
allied arts; personality development and integration are the important aspects
of these workshops. In the begining the number of centres for workshop was
one but now it has increased to eight. The Saturday Club activity is an
extension of the Summer Workshop, where more extensive work is done with
children of various age groups to create original plays through a process of
improvisational work. During the year 1997 the theme of '50 years of India's
Independence' was taken up by the children themselves and made into very
imaginative in Saturday Club productions.
Workshops with college students, parents, social organisations and children
with special needs are also company's important activities. The company .
organises theatre festivals and undertakes extensive tours in collaborati
with various groups and NGO's. During 1994-95 the company toured with its)
plays and workshops in various states of the country and also participated in
the International Theatre Festival in Warsaw (Poland).

I . का 1

”w if w क्यों". : “
. प्रा"
‘

