NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA
SANSKAR RANG TOLl (T.l.E. Co.)

Sanskaar Rang Toli (TIE Co.) of National
School of Drama. established on i 6 October.
1 989 and is one of the important educational
resources in the country. The TlE consists of a
group of actor-teachers working with and
performing for children on regular basis.
Plays for children : The major focus of the TlE
is to perform creative, curriculum and
participatory plays in schools specially designed
and prepared for children of different ages to
create awareness and encourage children to
raise questions. make decisions and to adopt
theatrical skills as an alternative.
Till date. the Toli has performed more than 500
performances of i 6 plays in Delhi 8 other parts
of the country. These plays have been
witnessed by more than 4 lakh spectators which
includes school children. college students,
teachers, parents and also theatre lovers.
Teacher's Workshop : The Toli offers training
workshops for teachers to create meaningful
theatre with children and also offer skills and
techniques to work in classroom situation to
make teaching learning more effective and
enjoyable. Apart from the working with the
teachers of Delhi Schools. Toli has worked with
teachers of Tripura. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh,
Rajasthan. Madhya Pradesh and Calcutta.

Summer Theatre Workshop with Children :
A regular annual feature is the one month
Intensive Summer Theatre Workshop for
children held in May-June every year. Basides
training in theatre and allied arts, personality
development and integration are important
aspects of this workshop. The number of
centres for workshop was one to start with but
now it has increased to eight.
During the past years. the Toli organised 38
theatre workshops in summer vacations. 2600
children from 1500 familiﬂarticipated in
month long intensive workshop.
Saturday Club with children : Saturday Club
is an extension of the Summer Workshop. where
more extensive work is done with children of
various age groups to create original plays
through a process of improvisational series.
During this training the children jointly decide a
theme or a subject and work on it in a very
creative process.
Looking at the success and demand of Saturday
Club activity Toli runs the Saturday Club every
year from August to January which culminates
with the shows of plays which are created by the
children themselves. Till today around 860
children participated in 29 groups and have
created more than 20 praise worthy plays.

Workshops with colleges 5 other
organisation : Workshops for colleges,
parents. social organisations and children with
special needs are also company‘s important
activities. The company organises theatre
festivals and has undertaken extensive tours in
collaboration with various departments and
institutions such as Max Muller Bhawan. Delhi.
Padatik (Calcutta), Department of Culture
(U.P.), Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti. voice Box
U.K, Language Alive U.K., Japan Foundation.
Samadhan (NGO. Delhi). Jawahar Navodya
Vidyalaya Samiti. and Bawana Women's
College. Jesus and Marry College etc.
Toli had been in touch with many TIE
companies abroad. From time to time Toli invite
foreign experts to have internal workshops for
Toli members.
Tours 8 Festivals : During 1994-95 the
company toured with its plays and workshops
to various states of the country and also
participated in the international Theatre Festival
in Warsaw (Poland).
The Toli will also be working on creating
syllabus for school children of different age
groups in near future.

