29th DEC EM B ER,

Naothingkhong Phambal Kaba MANIPUR
WRITTEN AND DIRECTION BY

Wa re ppa Naba

SYNOPSIS
One day while prince Naothingkhong went for a hunting expedition met Pitanga in

- the forest. They fell in love to each other. Naothingkhong married Pitanga and- lived
in the village of Langmais. Once these Langmais crossed the boundary of Maiteis
for their invasion against other hilltribes without the consent of king Urakonthouba
and this made him angry. So all the Langmais had been killed by an arnbuscade

warf—are. For this act, the Langmais wanted to take a revenge by killing his son
Naothingkhong who was staying in their village. But'Pitanga seved the life of her
husband by making a witty plan and made him ﬂee. Naothingkhong promised that
she would be the Queen of Manipur if he could succeed his father Urakonthouba.

Urakontouba died in 65B AD. and Naothingkhong succeeded his father. When
Pitanga got the news about the Cooronation Ceremony of Naothingkhong came to .
see her husband with high hopes. But she was so shocked at the sight of her
husband sitting with another princes that she left the world.

DIRECTOR'S NOTE
The Director alongwith his. group attempt to explore the Traditional Art forms in
Manipur both from hills and plains and make them into a cross-fertilization with a
view to have a contemporary social milieu.

CAST & CREDITS
Ningtheuja Lanéha as Naothingkhong

Kiranmala as Pitanga
Samarjit as Urakhonthouba
with Jayvidya, Dr. Nishi, Dr. Deben, Deepak, Indole,
Bhuben, Maipak, Dhanachendra, Kiran, Santomba,
Thoiba, Tarun, Chand, Dhenabatti, Sangeeta, Sahanbi.

Light
:
Music
:
Costume
:
Set
:
Make- up
:
Props
:
Production Manager :
Assistant Directors :

B aldev a
U shaki ran
Kiranmala
Lancha
Jad um ani
Bhuben, Manpak
Dr. Nishi
Jayvidya, Samarjit and Lancha

WAREPPA NABA
Wareppa Naba, Actor, Director & Playwright Haobam Marak Thingel Imphal, Manipur. Founded Theatre
Mirror on the first May '65 Acted more than hundred plays in different Units. Participated in theatre
workships conducted by H. Kanhailal, Probir Guha, John Martin, Niranjan Goswami, Prof. .T. Subaski and
Amuyairna. Received training from Kanhailal, N. Tombi Pukhramba Shamu. Amuyaima, Rattan Thiyam and

Guru Netrajit alongwith Shri L. Shyamo Shaun. Participated in many Theatre Festivals, Conducted श्या
Theatre Workshops in different areas. He is now busy enough in the line of exploration process of the
traditional art forms in Manipur both in the hills and plain.

