About the Director
Born in 1949, she has done Masters in English Literature from Delhi University and
Diploma in Theatre Direction from NSD.

KirtiJain has been associated with eminent theatre experts of international repute. She has
directed several plays including one at UK, Darlington College of Arts in 1982. Some of

her important productions are Lehron Ke Rajhans with NSD Repertory 1992, Holi with
Bhartendu Natya Akademi 1996, Subarnalata with Kshitij 1999, Tinka Tinka with NSD
students in 2001 was based on the Gujarat earthquake, Kaun Thagwa Nagariya Lutal Ho

also with NSD students in 2004 based on Kashinath Singh's story. Her production Aur
Kitne Tukde (2000) based on Urvashi Butalia's The Other Side of Silence won

tremendous appreciation and was invited for several National Festivals in different parts
of the country, including the Sangeet Natak Akademi's Goldenjubilee Festival & Rafi Peer
International Festival in Lahore, Pakistan.
Kirti Jain has attended conferences, conducted workshops and given lectures in several countries in UK, USA,
Japan, China, Germany, France, Poland, USSR, Philippines apart from those within India.
She has contributed articles in several specialized journals both in Hindi and English and in books on Indian

Theatre. Also contributed entries for the Companion to the Indian Theatre being published by OUP, India and has
also contributed entries on Indian Theatre to the Oxford Dictionary of Theatre and Performance, published by
OUP, U K.
Kirti Jain has been associated with Natrang Pratishthan, a Theatre Archives and Documentation Centre as its

Founder Trustee. She was project director for an Asian seminar on Methodology of Documentation of \Work
Process and also for Poorva — An Asian Women Director's Theatre Festival and Conference (2002) in Delhi.
She worked as a producer with Doordarshan from 1972—77 and has since been teaching at NSD. She served as the
Director of National School of Drama from 1988 —1995 and in her tenure, the Theatre in Education Company, the
Documentation and Publication Programme, and the Regional Resource Centre of the school was started.
Presently, she is Professor at NSD.

