Assistant Director
Alumni of NSD 1979 Batch. She has worked in Repertory Co. for 12 years as actress. She has
designed music and costumes for various plays. She has assisted in direction to Mr. E. Alkazi in plavs
“Rakta Kalyan”, “julias Ceasar” 8; “Din Ke Andhere”. She is a recipient of Mahendra Theatre
Excellence award 2007 for best supporting actress. She is associated with NSD as a visiting facultv
for voice and speech since 1992 and also involved in theatre extension programme. She has traveled
Europe twice with Repertory Co. in 1982, 1985.

Daylight”, (3८ “Electric Moon”.

She has acted in feature films like “American

Nutan Surya has also acted in serials, to mention a few are

“Bhanwar” for Sony, “Hadsa” for Sab TV, “Agnichakra” for Zee and “Manzilen” for Delhi

Doordarshan. She has produced few episodes of “Rishty” for Zee and 104 episodes of folk music
for Radio.

Set 8C Light Designer
Born in 1969, Majumdar graduated in Dramatics Arts from Rabindra Bharti University in Acting
and did his Post—graduate Diploma from N.S.D. in Design and Direction. Since 1992 has been
constantly involved in teaching and research activities. He has worked with eminent theatre
personalities, to name a few, like, Marcel Marcean, Laurent De'eoll, Peter Brook, Badal Sircar, B.V.

Karanth, Maya K. Rao, Makato Sato, etc. He has designed lights for more than 17 plays; set, property
and costume for more than 6 plays. Directed 13 verbal and 9 non—verbal plays. He has conducted
theatre workshops in well—known universities and academies in India. He is a Recipient of Silver
and Gold award for Mime in All India Inter University Cultural Festival at Roorke and best Light
Designer award by Mahendra Theatre Excellence. He has extensively traveled Europe and Asia.

Lyrics Sc Music
Graduate from NSD in 2002, specialized in Acting. He has born in Uttrakhand. He was brought up
and educated in Lucknow. Since childhood he was interested in music in theatre. While studying in
NSD, written lyrics and composed music for 3“I year student's production “I’ar Hamein Khelna
Hai” directed by Dr. Mohan Agashe. He has also written lyrics & composed/designed music for
plays like 'Teedo Rao', 'Heer Raniha', 'Andher N agri', 'Dularibai', and 'Saiyan Bahaye Kotwal etc. He

is presently working as freelance writer, music director and actor in theatre and films both.

Costume Designer
Diploma from NSD in 2005, specialization in Acting. She has worked with Seagul (Assam) as
costume lncharge. Also assisted in costume designing for '_latra' a production by Seagull. She has
Robin
worked with eminent theatre personalities like Anamika Haksar, Kirti _]ain, Raniit liapoor,

ActorDas, Abhilash Pillai and MK. Raina. Presently she is working in TIE Co. of NSD as an
Te ac h e r.

Researcher
did his MN. A.
He is M. A. in Hindi Literature from Dr. Hari Singh Gaur University Sagar(1994) and
He has
Baroda.
University
MS.
(Art History & Aesthetics) in 2005 from Faculty of Fine Arts,
Network, Janmadhyam, The
worked with Delhi Municipal \V'orkers Union, United Newspapers
posters, logos, newsletters and
( )ther Media, Hazards Center and Tlli Co. of N SD. He has designed
Greenpeace, NFI’, PII’FPD,
campaign material for organizations like I7.S.I).D., \V'FFW'FH,
articles in journals like New Age,
NPMHR, IOAR, IIMS, Saiha Manch, etc. and contributed

working as a consulting
Critique, the Asian Affairs and radicalnotesbk)gspot.C()m. He is presently
h work on 'Representation of
member and designer for Aakar Books and pursuing his researc
l .aboring Bodies'.

