SynOpSIS
This story is about five children studying in an affluent public school in lndirapuram, Ghaziabad. ( )ne of these

children, Harish is a son of a farmer who lives in Bajheda, a village near (Jhaziabad.
These children are given a task by thelr teacher to make a presentatIon on “Future lndia . As they start rchcarslng, a
series of incidents reveal certain realities. ' ‘hese happenings change their perspective towards the Idea of progress
and development.

Director's Note
Globalization and liberalization have created an almost brand new world while it is extremely alluring for many of
us, it is frightening for those who are not empowered. It is this aspect of globalization that we wanted to bring
forward. The topic has so many dimensions that it was difficult narrowing it to one single focus. After some
discussions, we decided that we will limit our play to the issue of displacements. The SliZ controversy in \X'est
Bengal made us want to include the issue of forcible takeover of land from farmers as well. So we researched to see
if there were any such incidents in and around Delhi. To our absolute surprise, we found that both in Gurgaon and

Ghaziabad, forcible acquisition by private companies is in progress, with the connivance of the government. we
also found that in spite of more than 3 lakh farmers being involved, there has been practically no media coverage of
their protest and resistance, while we are flooded with images and news on Singur and N andigram.
Obviously there was no ready play dealing with these issues. \‘C'e contacted Vibhawari, a young playwright from
Pune to write a play on this theme.

She prepared a basic outline, based on which the entire team did many

improvisations to explore various aspects of these issues. The script that is now being staged is the result of a
creative collaboration between the playwright, performers and the director each providing an equally significant
input.

Directing this play has been a great learning process for me as I had to understand and project these issues from the
point of view of children. The toughest task has been to work out how children of a particular age group respond to
a particular situation. In my interaction with children, I found that they responded in a very mature fashion and also
showed a great deal of sensitivity to issues we were trying to raise. I really hope that this play touches some chord in
the children for whom we are doing this play.

