Slum Dwellers

nsible for these demolitions, that you people have
“My name is Abdul Rashid. I just want to ask all those respo
resettlement, we cannot make proper homes With
passed an order, that for ninety days, after this so called
spend one hour outSide, do the authoritles expect
proper electrical fittings. In this heat, where we find it hard to
ut proper shelter and electrical connections?
us and mainly the children, to be able to spend ninety days witho
law. This is
ed to suffer in such heat? This isn't
\X/hich law in our land, says that, children should be allow
lawlessness.”

Source .' Yamuna Geuz‘Zy W/eepi lgy Rug/)e/J N. B/oorue/Jo
n. Over here, they went to schools run

“After the shift, I don't think I will be able to afford, to educate my childre

to pay fees that are Charged by
by Navjyoti and all there expanses were taken over of by Navjyoti. I can't afford
outside schools. Now, only God can take care of us.”

Source : lizzuuuo Geutg’y W/eepr l2} Rug/Ml) N. B/Jorue/Jo
y in Delhi and Mumbai,
“The demolitions, of the Yamuna Pushta and so many of other demolitions, especiall
facts and published
reek of Government— Judiciary Land mafia nexus. If the court of the land chooses to ignore
the poor in our
reports and decides arbitrarily, that the residents are polluting Yamuna and thus they have to go,
country have a real grim future starting at them in the face.”

Pros/Joni B/Jus/Jau, a r'qbufedpruefieiiug Zoo/yer m #96 Supreme Court of India.
Since 2000, over 500,000 people have been displaced from their habitat. In 2004, the biggest slum cluster was
demolished, uprooting over 30,000 families. Only a quarter of those evicted got alternative plots in resettlement
colonies of Bawana, Holambi Kalan, Madanpur Khadar, developed in the outskirts of Delhi. Slum dwellers

with documents to prove their stay in Delhi before 1990 get 18 sq. mts. and those with documents dated 1990 to
1998 are eleigible for 12.5 mts. These resettlement areas are devoid of even basic amenities like serviced plots,
water, electricity, toilets, health facilites etc.

Source .’ ‘Ylloiz‘er P/oum'ug f/Je W'onéugg Clem Out: Alukz‘ug of au
Apun‘oz'ed C291” by Low/if Bofm, offps/ /mdz'eu/ooter.eoiu
Number of Jhuggies in Delhi has increased from 12,749 in 1951 to 4,60,929 in 1994.
Source: Eoouomz'e Survey of De/bz' 7999-2000

Low cost for relocating slum dwellers in Yamuna Pushta area was denied on the grounds that the Pusta area is
unfit for construction activity. However, approvals have been given for building of temples, Hotels, Games Site
on the same land. How does the same land become fit for this other construction?
Projects coming up on evacuated land Metro, Express Highway, International Hotel Complex, Yamuna
Development Scheme, 40 Bridges, Industrial relocation.

Bored ou Sag/bu Alum/J, Poyz‘er

Employment
“Even a person, who wants to continue working, spends about twenty rupees everyday and if she/he wants to
reach her/his place of work fast, then she/he has to change two buses, so she/he spends twenty rupees going
and twenty rupees for coming back. Forty rupees just on transport and she/he earns about seventy rupees per
day. Ten rupees minimum is spent to use the bathroom and toilet. There is no money left for food and
8

