About Sanskaar Rang Toli
Theatre In Education Company (Sanskaar Rang Toli) of National School of Drama was established on October 16,
1989, and is one of the important educational resource centers in the country.

Performance for Children: TIE Company consists of a group of actor-teachers working with and performing
for children. The major focus of TIE Co. is to perform creative, curriculum based and participatory plays in schools
Specially prepared for children of different age groups. The major thrust of the plays is to create an atmosphere to
encourage children to raise questions. So far TIE Co. has done more than 800 performances of 26 plays in Delhi and
other parts of the country.

Summer Theatre Workshop: A month long intensive workshop for children (8—16 years) helds in May— une
as well as with the social
every year. Personality development and integration of children from various social strata
reality of our time are important aspects of this workshop.

Club operates on
Sunday Club, Part I 8C II: This is an extension programme of Summer Theatre Workshop. The
through a process of
Sundays from August to January and during this period children creates original plays
ion of theatre as an
improvisation. This activity of Part I is extended one step further towards children's appreciat
art.

l skills and techniques suitable to
Workshop with Teachers: The company conducts workshop to share theatrica

s workshops for social
make teaching, learning more effective and enjoyable. The company also conduct
organizations from time to time.

Children'. Renowned theatre groups
Jashne Bachpan: The Company organizes 'National Theatre Festival by/ for
from various parts of the country participate with their notable productions.

l of Folk and Traditional Performing Arts.
Bal Sangam: The Company also organizes another National Festiva
invited to perform.
Child artists from folk/ traditional performing art communities are

in international theatre festivals in
Tours: Besides routine national tours, TIE Co. has participated
Warsaw (Poland), China (Beijing) and Philippines.

13

