J

Tillie Gujarati Education
' i ‘
_'

‘ है,
-l

i

U.-

‘ …

द्विष्टहं

I

I “it!!! के

{-

obile Tg] , —:

This Society was founded in 1954 with Shri H. M. 1-Patel., 108. as President.

The immediate objective of the Society is to organize a modern educational institution open to the public of all castes and languages with special facilities for
teaching in Gujerati as an optional subject.
There has been encouraging response from all over the country and particularly from Bombay and Ahmedabad. The Society has already succeeded in

But it has still to collect atleast Rs. 3 lakhs more to
ensure that this educational institution is adequately equipped and has a competent
staff. The building and its equipment will cost over Rs. 5 lakhs. In addition,
collecting over Rs. 3 lakhs,

such an institution must have an auditorium which is estimated to cost Rs. 1%
clear to
lakhs; it is not proposed, however, to take it in hand until we see our way

obtaining necessary funds.

Apart from this, a reasonable sum will be necessary
In a city like Delhi, where students will have to travel

for the current expenses.
some considerable distance, suitable transport facilities will have to be provided
and that again will call for some capital expenditure. The target for the collection
of funds set by the Society, viz., Rs. 6 lakhs, is, therefore, by no means an
over estimate.

The Society is conﬁdent that further donations will continue to come along
in future as they have in the past and it is greatly encouraged by such spontaneous

little
gesture as has been shown by The Theatre GrOUp in coming to Delhi at not a
inconvenience and presenting us with their beneﬁt shows.
The Government of India have sanctioned a 1% acre plot of land in the
Lodi Estate at a generous concessional price. The plans and estimates have been
ﬁnalised and the construction has now begun. We hope to be able to complete the

construction by July, 1957 in time for the new academic year.
The institution will be named “SARDAR PATEL VIDYALAYA”.

