e THEATRE GROUP
Founded over 13 years ago by the late Sultan Padamsee, the Theatre Group
is probably one of the oldest amateur theatre organizations in Indla. It has
remained an active, virile force whose impetus has given rise to most of Bombay S
most talented directors and actors.
From its inception, the Theatre Group, as it is known in Bombay, has
concentrated on bringing to its audiences everything that is stimulating, experimental and signiﬁcant in world drama. The long list of its productions includes
plays by Shakespeare, Fry, Eliot,

Priestley,

Satre,

Shaw, Anouilh, Giraudoux,

Chekov, Strindberg, Lillian Hellman and Lorea—. On pages 20 and 21 are photographs of some of these productions. The Theatre Group’s two latest presentations, Roussin’s THE LITTLE HUT and Pirandello’s SIX CHARACTERS IN
SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR were performed in Bombay last year. SIX CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR was later repeated for the ﬁrst World Theatre Conference organized by the the International Theatre Institute (UNESCO).
THE LITTLE HUT was performed for charity under the auspices of the Time and
Talent Club. It had a long run to capacity audiences and, in answer to public
demand, may have further performances on its return to Bombay.
In recent years, the Theatre Group has been placing increasing emphasis on
the Indian language stage. It has produced a succession of one-act plays in Hindi,
Gujerati and Marathi written by the members themselves. An ambitious
programme is now being planned which envisages a pool of Hindi dramatists
writing exclusively for a touring repertory company.

Among its “extra curricular” activities, the Theatre Group encourages fresh
talent through Visual Enactment and play-readings.

Frequent evenings of music

and poetry, as also revivals of ﬁlm classics, are some of the ways in which the

theatre Group draws together those who are interested in drama and want to be
closer associated with it. The Theatre Group last year organized the Marie Seton
Film Seminar for Theatre Centre, Bombay.

Speech classes and courses in stage production have also been part
of the Group’s programme. (Its back stage crew handled the stage management of
the Martha Graham Dance Company in Bombay last year). Besides giving every
assistance to the Schools and Colleges, the Group is closely associated with the
Indian Acdaemy of Dramatic Art, the only institution of its kind in India.
A small but representative library offers members a chance to acquaint themselves
with theatre in all its forms and aspects. The Group also publishes a monthly
magazine, “Script”, which endeavours to keep in touch with theatre trends and
events in India and elsewhere.

More than anything else, however, the Theatre Group offers its members the
scope to express themselves through the medium of theatre and gives its audienee
s
an opportunity to see all that is most important in world drama.

w

