Director’s Note

The other day l mentioned it to a friend that this is my first encounter with
Shakespeare. He was surprised "Unbelievable isn't it? This reaction even

from a close collegue is expected. For, a person working in the field of
theatre primarily as a director for the past 35 years is bound to intrepret the
great bard at least once in his career. I don't know how I escaped this
prerequisite for such a long time, all that I could say is that it just did not
happen.

With all my indifference and lack of respect for reputations, l was
probably in this particular case awed by the stature of the playwright. No
other person could claim such a permanent place in history, through
thousands of books, hundreds of films and countless theatre productions
all over the world. Being a student of theatre this probably worked on my

mind and I kept away from the bard, considering his work as highly complex
and difficult to deal with an average mortal. This attitude of total submission
had to go, because it is unnatural to maintain it, for a person like me for

even
Shakespeare becomes inanimate, lifeless and even meaningless,
where his meaning is insulated in intellectual construction and abstractions,
which have nothing to do with a practical theatre person like William
Shakespeare. He breathed theatre, lived with the actors and wrote, for a
living theatre company, which needed material to perform on a regular
basis. A Midsummer Night’s Dream is probably the best conformation or
illustration of the point I just made. It is not by chance, that Shakespeare

weaves in a theatre scene within the theatre in several of his plays and
once again in a Midsummer Nights Dream, it becomes a motive. There are
actors preparing to put up a play. A performance is in offing and quite
unrelated, far away a celestial drama is taking place, and in between there
is a human organisation, a governernnt you may call it, which is creating its
own tensions. The three levels of reality, constantly present, interact with

each other, until predictably it leads to the finale.
In the last scene we have the actors with all their cute improvisations

and imperfections there is a relaxed bourgeoise of the period, affectd by
the magic of European summer or in other words season of romance and
only
love. Like the birds, insects, vegetation, animals, man too and why

man. even gods are affected and this atmosphere, to the relief of everybody
the
wins, so in the end we have the actors, we have the drunken rivalries of
levels,
bourgeoise and of course Puck, a symbol of celestial mischief, three

combining to resolve the play or do they?
I shall be failing in my duty if I do not mention that in this production

I was lucky to work with a batch which is extremely talented. All these girls
and boys, I am sure have a bright future. I wish them well !
M oh an Maharishi

