On The Director

Brief Personal History
Born in Ajrner, Rajasthan in the year 1940, Mohan Maharishi began his
career in drama with All India Radio, Jaipur in the year 1955-56, as an
amateur actor. He took active interest in college drarnatics and as Cultural
Secretary of his college, participated in National‘r’outh Festival to win several
‘
prizes as actor/director.
It was in the year 1962 that he decided to turn professional and joined

the National School of Drama as a student. There he came in contact with
the most eminent teacher/ director in India, Mr E.Alkazi. He graduated front
the National School of Drama & Asian Theatre Institute in the year 1965
with G i rish G hosh and Bharat awards and was offered a two year stint in the
National School of Drama Repretory Company.
Since 1967, Mohan Maharishi has held several important positions in
the field of theatre. As a free lance teacher/ director, he worked in many
Indian Universities before taking a job (Producer, Drama & Current Affairs)in
Doordarshan, Delhi. He married Anjala Chitnis, a trained actress from NSD
and a professional classical dancer.
In 1973, the couple got their first major assignment abroad. The

Government of India sent them to Mauritus asTheatre Experts where they
together initiated a Youth Theatre Movement. Mohan Mahrishi was further
working as Cultural Advisor to the Prime Minister by the Governement of
Mauritus for a period of three years.
He returned to India in 1979 to head the Department of Drama, Punjab
directly
University, Chandigarh. Considering his eminence in the field, he was
taken on as Professor, a job that he still retains.

In 1984, the NSD Society invited him to take over the Directorship of
August
the National School of Drama. He worked as Head of NSD until
1986.
and writer,
In his 30 year career as director, teacher, actor, designer

amongst
Mohan Maharishi has created several important works; notable
like Adya
them are his productions of regional Indian Playwrights
Dr Dharrnavir
Rangacharya, Badal Sircar, Girish Karnad, Mohan Rakesh and
B harati .
Antigone,Shaw's
Jean Paul Sartre's Men Without Shadows, Anoulh's

Kafka'sTheTrail
Pygmalion, Durenmatt'sTheVisit, Moliere'sThe Miser and
are some of the best known productions of foreign playwrights.

