On The Music Director

Rajendra Prasanna, born in 1957 is one of the leading performers
in the
Benaras G harana. A master of flute and Shenai, he got his lessons
from his

grandfather the Late Pt. Gauri Shanker, Father Pt. Raghunath Prasanna,
Uncle Pt. Bholanath and Pt. Vishnu Prasanna.
One can see the impressive use of GayakiAng in his recitiatons,
for
which he recievd his lessons from Padarnshree Ustad Hafeez Ahmed

Khan & Ustad Sarfaraj gharana.
Shri Prasanna, is known for the unique blend of fluency and melody in

his recitals of Ragas and Ta/as. His systematic Badhat with an aesthetic
approach has been one of the main qualities of his presentation. Musica
l
environment at home became an inspiration for Rajendra Prasanna and
he took to music at a verey tender age. It was at the age of eleven that he
was invited to the Calcutta music conference in 1968. After that Rajendra
Prasanna never looked back. He won prestigious music competition of
UtfarPradesh Sangeet NatakAcademi, All India Radio music competetion
in the year 1976 & 1977 respectively. Shri Parsanna was a special invitee

in 9th " Asian Music Festivaf' held in 1984 in Honkong and at Bulgaria
festival in 1988. After partition he was the first flute and shenai player who
visited Pakistan for a music concert ( Classical) in 1986.
In life span he has been honoured with many presitigious awards
including "Surmain" in 1978 Bombay, ”SangeetPujarI" in 1986 in Delhi, and
"Nadaratna" in 1994 in Ajmer.
Rajendra Prasanna has given music in famous telesetial “Sanja
Chulha" for he received "Rose" award in 1994.
Rajendar Prasanna has given many major music concerts in India

and abroad such as Holland, France, Belgium, Poland, Germany, UK and
other European countries and also in Asian countries such as Lebanon,

Cyprus, Mauritus, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam & Cambodia
including Maharishi Music Festival in 1993 for wolrd peace.
Shri Prasanna has taken part in Akashvani Sangeet Sammelan,

" National Progamme” of A I B and also in National Programme of Music on
television .Sh ri Prasanna is presently working with National SChoo/ of Drama
(NSD), New Delhi.

