DIRECTOR’S NOTE
GARAK HO RIHA MANUKH Written by. Dr. Davinder Singh
The dramatist has taken up a number of incidents, knitted in a style of spider’s net and revolvmg round the theme

where the deteriotation of human character has been the main objective of the author in the contemporary aspect.

The play begines with the Vultures taking their traditional diest i.e. dead animals. where the man offers him dead
humanbodies in place of dead animals. The vultures considers the prOposal reluctantly and ultimately relish the flesh.
During this the author has satirically highlighted the various dimensions of the downfall of the human character in

general. Again after some time with few incidents which highlights the various aspects which shows the deterloatlon
of man’s character for religious, socially, culturally as well as politically, the man offersthe live human bodies
to vultures. Here again the vultures accepts reluctantly but later on relishu it. In the end the man the man

fails to fulfil their demand and ultinaterly vultures kills the man eat his flesh. In this way the author has shown, how
is surrounded by his own creations which leadsto his finish.
The wh’ble play is a continuous process with change of scene with light and sound effects. Humour, wit and satire
make this play interesting which despicts the day to day problems of the man.
Most of the discussions with the writer and designers regarding the play was about the form and techniques to be

adopted to evolve the play with dramatic effectiveness. The theme holds the play together, but t-heme itself may recive
little stress, the stress beign placed on the most important values- The significance of a play depends as much on the
attitude of the audiences as it does on words of the SCI ipt. Once his (audiences) View point is established, he trigstto
fit every thing he sees and hears into a pottern which makes sense from that view point. The sprit of t he
play and the A

sprit in which the audience views it should orditarily correspond. Keeping this in View I and my designers reached to a
consensus that since the play is not naturalistic there should be no contradiction between the form and the technequ
es

or treatment employed so as to avoide shall make the play confusion in the audience by creating a view point wh
ich
shall make the play consistant .

After ascertaining the from and the techneques of non realistic style to be utiliz
ed in evolving the play, the main
SVI‘CSS was to be put on the performers. I am of strong openion that to create a
dramatic action. performers should not
be used mearly as models but as individual talents capable o f stimulating their crea
tive imagination and alleviating
emotional tensions. Actors should not he used as du rnrnies or puppet
s but performers having capacity to use appratus
of body and voice.

M U s H TA Q K A K

