CR E DI T5
Sets: Anant Ghare

Lights: Ranian
N izampu rkar
Music: Anand Modak

Costume: Sanyogita
B h ave
Make-up: Prabhakar
B h ave

title of the play comes from an Abhang composition by
Sant Tukararn.
SU BO DH YAS HWANT PAN D E
An active theatre worker of Pune, Subodh Yashwant

Pande has a number of productions to his credit. Some
of his plays have won awards in State-level theatre
events. His production of Kon Mhanafa Tak/(a Di/a,

sta ed all over Maharashtra, has been widely
Sound: Chandrashekhar
K u th 6

SATU RDAY
'I 4 MARCH

acc aimed.

U LJ HA N HINDI
Written by Saurabh Shukla
Directed by Avtar Sahni
Produced by Adi Manch, Ambala Cantt.

ABOUT THE PLAY
A ypsy named Lakhi sees what he thinks is a bear
fol owing a flock of sheep. He wants to shoot it down ३
but is restrained by his wife Baniari, who argues that the
bear is really a man. As the two engage in a bitter
quarrel, the 'bear' — really an apeman — sets upon
Lakhi. Baniari tells him through gestures not to harm
Lakhi, who runs away leaving his wife behind. A
shepherd appears, saying the apeman was found near
a wolf's den many years ago.
Baniari is determined to reclaim the apeman and
change him back into a normal human. She has a
barber sent down the next morning, and the apeman is
transformed into a handsome young man. Baniari starts
living with him, teaching him the ways of civilized life. In
course of time he becomes an intelligent man. The
barber informs the king that this was his son, whom
conspirators had abandoned in the woods in his
infancy. The kin takes him back to his capital with
Baniari and ab icates in his favour. The barber is
appointed Diwan to the state.
However, absolute power makes the new king
corrupt, lecherous, and merciless. The courtiers pander
to his greed and lust. Baniari, anguished by this
degeneration, now thinks he was better as an ape than
a king. In the last stage of her pregnancy, she pins her
hopes on the new life in her womb. Realizing her
mistake in saving her savage, she broods on the riddle
of life and lust.

