Asad. It looked as though a spring imprisoned in hard rocks

S c cn e l 1

had suddenly burst forth in gurgling streams.

Chi trangada along with her companions comes to a
river for taking bath.

sorry to ﬁnd that the valiant huntress now wants so ardently

The deep water is beckoning to her.

to be a quarry herself.

She wants to drown all her worries and heart-burns in the
cool limpid waters.

They are

One of her companions desires to avenge the defeat of

She ﬁnds a vibrant stir in the air.

Chitrangada which to her symbolised woman’s defeat at the

When the bath is over, she asks her companions to
dress her up in a beautiful garb bedecked with ornaments so

hands of man.

She appeals to the God of Love to give

th'i t she might have a new look like the vernal forest emer-

Chitrangada the irresistable woman’s weapon, BEAUTY.
Chitrangada invokes Madana.

ging out of the spell of the winter’s curse.

She offers her dejected

and anguished soul to Madana and implores him to make

Her companions echo her feelings and express the hope
that her love and youth dancing through her limbs may get
the right reward and fulﬁlment.

her an instrument of His victory and thereby ﬁll up her
empty cup with divine nectar.
Madana appears and Chitrangada narrates to him how

Scene [II
Ch i tra ngada
Arjuna is seated in a meditating posture.
Arjuna
declines
approaches him and offers him her love.

Arjuna who is practising celibacy has turned down her love.
She implores Him to endow her body with perfect, heavenly
beauty for the span of a year.

her oﬁ'er and begs to be excused as he is under a vow of

Madana, pleased with this supplication, grants her prayer

celibacy.

and assures her complete victory over the ascetic Arjuna.

Chitrangada feels keenly the pangs of despised love.

She ascribes her failure to her unsuccessful life-long attempt
to suppress the woman in her by cultivating the masculine
art of war.

INTER V A L
Scene IV

Never before in her life did the spring come

The transformed Chitrangada is wonder-struck at the

laden with such tears! She is overwhelmed with a deep long-

sight of her own physical charms.

As she gazes at her own

ing for union and she bewails her lot, as she is not able to

shadow reﬂected in the lake,

she hardly recognises herself

make an offering of herself to her Beloved.

as the Princess of Manipur.

She looks like a full-blown

'

Her companions are surprised to see how the ﬁerce Sun’s

forest ﬂower scattering its exotic perfume to the four winds.

rays of Baisak had melted into the mellow down-pour of

Her limbs are vibrant with a divine music.

12

She dances in

