supreme ecstasy under the intmticating influence
rest~less youth.

of her

momentary illusion.

Arjuna catches a glimpse of her and wonders whether
what he is seeing is a mere dream or illusion or something

Arjuna is also seized with a melancholy restles
sness.
He feels that he has come away from the familiar
world and
entered into some sort of dream-life. The unkno
wn land
seemed to be beckoning him back to it.

rea l .

Chitrangada welcomes Arjuna as her guest and wants

Scene V

to know how best she can show her hospitality to him.

Chitrangada is now tired of this life of deceit. She
asks
Madana to bring to an end this play ‘of false-hood.
She
only hopes that her vanished beauty would leave behind
a
sweet memory as in a dream.

Arjuna introduces himself and makes an offering to her
of all his reputation, glory and manliness.
Chitrangada is ashamed to ﬁnd the world-conqueror,

Arjuna, in that helpless plight.

Arjuna, however, declares

Madana, however, assures her that
without ripening into fruit.

that he is not like a woman bound by Shastric lore and as
such. he has no difﬁculty in discarding the vow of celibacy.
Arjuna asks Chitrangada to join him in the great adventure
of love and youth.

no ﬂower decays

Arjuna and Chitrangada again ﬁnd fulﬁlment in each
other. All paths, all lights, all sorrows and agonies seem
to meet their ﬁnal destination in each other’s eyes.

Chitrangada accepts this invitation. even though she
knows that the charm of her body which has conquered
Arjuna will soon fade away. She feels she is out on a
magic boat, dancing and singing with her lover. Her

Scene VI

Arjuna is suffering from a sense of satiety. He wants to
escape from this ernasculating langour. He meets a group of

villagers out to resist some invading-bandits.

wildest dream has come true.

He enquires

whether there is none to protect them. The villagers
reply that their protector is Princess Chitrangada who has
now gone out on a pilgrimage. Arjuna is surprised to learn
that the protector of the realm is a woman. The villagers

Arjuna feels that he has got the greatest prize of his
life.

She asks Arjuna to go back to his

former self.

She alone represents the ﬁnest glory of God’s creation

she is the culminating point of all earthly desires.

remark that she is affectionate like a mother and has the
prowess of a King.

Chitrangada, however, soon realises that Arjuna has

made a mistake in sacriﬁcing everything for the sake of a
13

