Bonopath complains that Rituraja is partial towards
all sorts of ﬂowers,

known and unknown.

The Krishna-

words which had never been uttered are found to ring in
t he ear.

chura, the Baku] and the Siris ﬂowers have all come into
X l I Enters A aka n d a

bloom with the expectation that they would adorn Rituraja
Oh ! Champak and Karabi, now sing his farewell song.
himself.

Bonopath feels neglected in that she is not counted
The trees are shedding their leaves, as if in tears, the sky is

as one of the Courtiers of Rituraja,

None-the-less, she
getting red and fearful, the river boat is tossed about in a

keeps a loving watch over the arrival and departuie of Ritutempest.

Now is the time when your last ﬂowers should be

raja. Rituraja, however, protests that in every breath he is
offered at His feet.
in intimate communion with her.

Rituraja now announces that the hour of his departure
has arrived.

The f'ar-olT unknown land is calling him, the

X I I I Enters Dhu t a ra

Oh, Come and join in the game of winding up the play

sky is surcharged with the music of the far-off Beloved,

of Spring.

The snug, little nest of happiness will have to be

Jhumko-lata entreats Rituraja not to go away so soon as the

broken up.

The garland of union will now be torn asunder

Baku] is yet to bloom and the Moon-beam is still weaving its

and all the sweet reveries of Falguna will now be dissipated.

magic web.

L0! The fearful cloud of Baisak is looming darkly in the

All are eager for union with the beloved Guest.

She asks Rituraja to call back Mallika who is going away in
agony.
Rituraja, however, repeats that he has to go in response

horizon.

You have to dance to its tune.

Enters everyone

diving beneath the surface, where the forgotten smiles of the

Oh friends, come and join in the great Tandava dance
of Baisak. The hot wind has taken the fearful shape of a
tornado. There is thunder-clap in the air. You have to
attune yourselves to this fearful music. Only through sepa-

days of union can yet be seen in their tragic pathos, where

ration can the desire for reunion fulﬁl itself.

to the call that has come from the unknown land where the
last song of Falguna has melted into silence like a swimmer

