Directed by

Written by

जायजा: Gaur
Starting off as a journalist and
working for some time in the
electronic media, Arvind Gaur,
a freelance Director is the
Founder Director of Asrnita a
Delhi based, theatre group
committed to innovative and
socially relevant theatre. Through Asrnita, Arvind has
directed 35 productions till date. His best works
include Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq & Rakt Kalyan,
Dharamveer Bharati’s Andha Yug, Swadesh Deepak’s
Court Martial & Kaal Kothari, Dario Fo’s Accidential
Death of an Anarchist, Ashok Lal’s Ek Marnooli Aadrni,
Bertolt Brecht’s Kanpur Ki Aurat Bhali-Ramkali, Mahesh
Dattani’s Final Solutions & T'ara, G.P. Deshpande’s
Antim Divas, Neil Sirnon’s The Good Doctor (Log Baag)
and Samuel Beckett’s Waiting for Godot. His plays
have the distinction of being acclaimed amongst the
best plays in Delhi for the last seven consecutive
years, a record for any group and have won the
acclaim of the audience.

He has also been conducting workshops and directing
productions in different colleges in Delhi and is actively
associated with the students of School of Planning
and Architecture (SPA) leading to the inception of the
2nd Foundation Theatre Society.
Arvind Gaur has also received the Junior Research
Fellowship of the Department of Culture for Work on
‘Social and Political Awareness amongst Performers’.

I am a married woman with a two daughters Shreiyah and
T'anyah, and, live in New Delhi. After graduation from CJM
and then LSR, I worked in ‘Banque Nationale De Paris’.
After a short stint with Air France, I joined British Ain/vays
as an Air Stewardess. Those days in the 70’s flying was
a luxury and travel had an exotic sense of destination
I rm m ३
~ "
attached to it. Simultaneously I ran a boutique with my
lodged a seed of
was
down
deep
cousin Lillette, in Delhi, called “Girl”. Somewhere
restlessness that forced me into savouring and sampling different aspects of life.

In 1984 I married Biren Sabharwal and moved to Calcutta. Biren is an entrepreneur
and has two units in Noida for packaging: a crown plant & a pilfer proof plant. In
1987 we moved back to Delhi and I started “Kids World” with my cousin Lushin
Dubey. We spearheaded theatre for children and started from the grassroots upwards,
doing everything-Casting, Directing, Choreography. . . . Wearing both the Creative and
Administrative Hats. In the last decade we have staged many musicals and originals.
We started Theatre World in 2000 to work with adults. Under Theatre World we staged
“Women in Black” & “Runaways” directed by Lushin Dubey. Then we staged the “Life
of Gautarna Buddh” which traveled to Bodh Gaya, Singapore & America in June 2002.
In 1998 the desire to forage new grounds arose and I started a Book Club with friends
at the India Habitat Centre. Seeds in a familiar corner had taken root and pushed
restlessness back onto the horizon, streaking it with change and turmoil. In the
summer of 1999 I wrote four plays “Women in Black”, “Runaways”, “See Saw” &
“The Coffee Glitch”. “Women in Black” is under publication with Seagull Publishers,
Calcutta. “The Coffee Glitch” was staged in 1999. Acting in “Women in Black” has
been a challenging experience, from page to stage! If I were to say I am a Director
in “Kids World” or “Integrated Caps” that would be incorrect as we are the sum of
our parts. A part of me is wife, mother, writer, director and another part is still
searching. What we do in life is only a reflection of what we are and what we are,
keeps evolving...

