NAUTANKl—A Folk Opera
Nautanki, Swan or Rahas is one of the most interesting and exquisite secular m usical dramas of the country, particularly of the Hindi-Speaking people of North India. It
probably originated a few hundred years ago in some form of animated ball ad-singi ng in the

Punjab and, later on, when it came to Uttar Pradesh, it acquired some of the characteristics of Bhagat, a form of religious devotional enactment performed in the temples, which

has also been mentioned in the Ain-e-Akbari.
At present there are two schools of Nautanki—the Hathras school and the Kanpur

school. The Kanpur school seems to have been influenced by the musical tradition of
Lucknow, particularly of the court of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, in the nineteenth century.

It has greater clarity of musical diction and is popular both in Kanpur city as well as the

entire countryside around. One of the playrights of the Kanpur school Nautanki has been
given the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for this year,

The Hath ras school, to which the present performance belongs, has been more influenced by the traditional culture of the Braj area, particularly Rasleela and North Indian
classical music.

The themes of the Nautanki plays derive either from mythology or from folklore
and

other sources which excite the popular imagination. These plays are simple in their
structure and present some basic human feeling directly and powerful
ly through singing, both
narrative and interpretative, as well as instrumental accompa
niment. The staging is simple,
on a bare stage, without any setting or props; the
costumes are colourful. Normally, a
Nautanki performance is a whole-night affair in an open ﬁeld
or any other open Space under
the stars. The simple rural audiences sit enthralled for
hours watching and listening to

their favourite singers with an identification with the performanCe which
only such unsophisticated spectators are capable of.
At present there are about a hundred whole-time or part-time professio
nal Nautanki troupes which constantly travel in the countryside and
entertain their simple patrons.

Yet all is not well with this theatre of the people. Under the all-perv
ading influence ofthe
commercial cinema and on account of the ignorance and poverty
of the actors as well as
their audiences, some of its crudities have become
more pronounced and accentuated.
That this theatrical form, if properly reoriented
and revitalised, has still much charm

and appeal for all kinds of audiences, will be eviden
t, we hope from the present attempt
by this troup

e of the Braj Lok Mane/z under the guidance
of Smt. Shanta Gandhi and Shri
Anil Biswas. The troupe has been in existe
nce for more than two years and consists
entirely of the traditional Nautanki singers
and players who are immensely popula
r in
the Braj area, both rural and urban.

