JUDGE IT FOR YOURSELF

HO invented the “whodunit” ?

And how is its fantastic

unending popularity to be explained ? Was it Alphonse
Bertillon, “father of scientiﬁc detection and creater of the
science of human indentiﬁcation”; or Edgar Alan Poe; Arthur
Conan Doyle; perhaps, even, Voltaire?

And why does the frustrated, perplexed man of the
atomic age ﬁnd solace in obscure and unrewarding details of
toxicology, pathology, forensic medicine, and ballistics: or the
goings on of kidnappers, narks, gangsters, bank-robbers, drug
traffickers, arsonists, and the exponent of the crime passionelle ?
If there is no answer to these Questions, can we blame the
writers of “crime ﬁction” and ex-Detective Superintendents,
hell-bent on memoire-writing, heeding only the merry jingle of
the cash register?
Yet there is one who does rnore—the Queen of them all——
Agatha Christie. A while ago, the London stage celebrated
surely its most macabre record—10 years of continuous run of
her stage thriller, “The Mouse-Trap”. From the same dictating
machine comes the play you are just about to see, “Witnes's' '
for the Prosecution”. There are those (naturally I am among
them) who think “Witness” far above “The Mousetrap” in
artistry: it is a cunning blend of crime, legal ﬂumrnery, passion;
and the setting of the Central Criminal Court in London—:—
much better known as the Old Bailey—is surely the best that
3
drama can demand.

This is a “popular” play.

But do not underrate it.

It is more subtle than Miss Christie would have us think; as

well as being great theatre. Because it is subtle, please do not
ignore the warning on your ticket and on the notice you have
seen in the foyer. Tell your friends about the play but do not
give them the sub-plot, or the totally unexpected ending. . . .
certainly I have no intention of doing so here.

The ingredients are familiar; a “cosh” murder of a rich
old lady; the trial of her good-looking young man friend ; the
intervention of his strange, foreign wife. But the dish is pure
Agatha Christie. Judge it for yourself.
,

.
V

_, ८

#1 / i u :1?
(, m
l
\
l

Alfred Hall

प्राग-रार हैहृदृदृन्न

नटहामृ

Mat

