D E L H I N ATY A SA N G H
l8-B, Railway Oﬂicers' Colony,
Tilak Bridge, New Delhl-1
3-2-68

Three Arts Club has given to the amateur theatre movement a hope and a

confidence, which the movement so sadly lacks and so urgently needs.

Inspite of a

quarter of century's struggle, most of the amateur theatre groups in the Hindustani

speaking region are without any audience.

Their halls are either empty or full of

persons with cornplirnentaries or tickets purchased under duress.

An audience that

has walked all the way to see their theatre on tickets, is a dream they are thinking of
abandoning for very valid reasons. In this atmosphere of genuine and almost universal despondency, Three Arts Club's Silver Jubilee is a silver lining for the entire
theatre movement.

They have demonstrated that by producing a simple unsophisti-

cated, interesting and emotionally Indian theatre,

audience can be drawn to the

theatre box-ofﬁce. They have during the last 25 years produced original lndianiplays
that have healthy social content, hope and humour for those who purchase tickets.

They have not tried to imitate the so called ‘intellectual,

Avante grade‘ and art

theatre' of the West. They have also not followed the so called literary giants of
Hindi drama who have, to avoid creative labour and to hide their intellectual impotency, stolen themes from history and mythology and branded their plays as pregnent
with contemporary meanings. Their playwright, director and actor Romesh Mehta
has written original plays on living Indian themes and created the most self-sustained

Hindustani Threatre. Their producer R M Kaul has worked for 25 years to organiie an
amateur theatre with the efﬁciency of professional theatre.

The whole team of

artistes and organizers deserve the highest praise and intact gratitude of the amateur
theatre movement. They have chartered and Indicated the path that amateur theatre
can tread safely to reach its goal of communication with the maximum millions.

Delhi Natya Sangh is proud to have the aﬁiliation of such a group.

९८८C ﬂ M ८८७३५
R EO T l SARA N SH AR M A
P res i d e n t

