4....

. . . . .

.

9 साय SAluutmv, AUGUST 29, 2015

66v EIt

1-

State
ofthe art
Fresh-off-the-boat artists, barter shows,

I photo festivals... Prominent galleries and
' museums are rolling out the welcome
mat for a new season ripe with
textures and colours, shapes

प

and moods

tandlng at the viewing end _of the

glass-top counter. whose refrigerated
insides contained deep stainlewsteei
pockets of different ﬂavours ofquintessentially indian ice-cream. i saw the sign
that assuredme that my four-month period of
intense craving would at last hesated. i was at
Natural. Mumbai‘s most beloved icecream
maker; which had recently set up a Delhi ourpost. it was midﬁugust. Their freezers were fi-

Mumbai. while Koiltata-based contemporary
am gallery Experimenter organised in July
the ﬁfth edition of its Curator's Huh. asigniﬁcant conﬂuence of local and International cu
raters.The group shows, a summer mainstay,
were held across galleries, but it was otherwise quiet. albeit punctuated with a radical
number ofdiscusrlonsand provocations. The

most distinctive ofthese, at the not-for-proﬁt

Mumbal [in Room. was a profound ‘exhibi~
tion inprocess' titled 'Len Den orBartered Colit had never occurredto me before that the lections'. a noble yet instigative enterprise
beginning of the artworld calendar so neatly initiated byartistcouple Shreyas Katie and He
coincided with the season of
mail Bhuta. They invited 14
custard apples. it made perartists. whose work they
fectsense. consideringthe naF-A-ﬁ
would have liked to acquire
tureof the plump. sinful fruit:
had they the capital, to barter

nally shelvedwith sitaphaiﬂavour.

all burst. all seed. all profu-

“thumshmm
with them and each other.
workingan
on I solo
sion, the perfect textural do
PI
"0". I
The show. which opened on
scﬂption of the last two
June 5. looked more like a
2016-! Hamel MM ,5
weels ofharvest. WhichIs not
Nahum
storage zone than a convento say the yearend spell of
I“ﬂmumuln
donalwhite-cubecxhlbltion.
melons and mangoes was
and evoked numerous quesmarked bya lull. In fact the fa
gar.)
Hons about the category of
cund introspection of the
the collector. the significance
months of March to iuly pro.ofa collection. the arbitrary
pared us for this more intricate ripeness. in relationship between price and value, and the
June. itinerant arts lab Khanabadhosh suc- prevailing hierarchies that both mark and
cessfully ldcked off the first phase of its year- mar the indian art world MidAugust. the dislong collaborative pruiectwith theZn rich Uni- play was once again turned on its head in orversity. encompassing artist collectives from
der to accommodate the new works that had
nine 'creative cities‘ across the world. The in- been acquired by the fresh bunch of artists
augural conference. titled ‘Draf‘t'.was held in who'd been invited to barter: The show‘s ex-

१०५1५ -— ५५.. -- »

. .4“, urn-v.1

