satunbm. numb! 29, 2015 liLink

C OV ER

tensron. from the beginning of the rnorisoons
until prewinter September. establishes, in a
sense. a continuum of thought and dialogue
about the existing ecosystem of the art world,
Different strokes

Tire art market. the target of Katieand Bhura's
curatorial critique. continues to function
across a speciﬁc median. mercrfully embodying noneof the overexuberant speculation of
the early 20005 and all of the cautious optirriisrri that set in post the 2008 crash. What
changed during the intermediary years, i arri
told. was that artists sought refuge in the integrity of their indrwdual studio practice.

10 {

Variety show (clockwm:
from below) A worir by
Orrya amst Mayadhara
Sahu (ct-~15. um ०८.11; v.
Ketaki Sheth's photo at
Conversations in Colour.
Jhaven Contemporary
:owu. .m. sniV~ANZ>
८७७५८, aBuddhadev
Mukhenee painting at
‘Body As Site‘ ८०७३१५८' u." r
1८७८… ma. v ivr '५n or१ rr,
'Bunung‘ is atribute to the
staple ornament in most
festMtieS ८०७८१1६१ nm uom
w» i .1- . r

where art was once again the unwrtting 20115.

querice of an ideational and material pursuit
rather than a product created for the conve
nient consumption of fly-by-nigl'it collectors.
Those who'd entered the ecosystem to cash in
on the overnight proﬁt had weeded themselvesouL lndian galleries soon began to shift
their focus to international fairs and to expanding their collector base while contempt)
rary Indian artists themselves have begun
showing abroad more regularly than ever before. Perhaps inevitably. the rriore established
ofthe lot havebegun once more to take better
risks. to experiment with greater conﬁdence.
and to seek material transcendence
Subodh Gupta. who opened a threerrionthlong impressive midcareer retrospective at

the National Gallery ofModern Art (NGMA) in
2014. is a ﬁne example of an artist rebelling
against aesthetic complacency. Gupta, 51. has
been working tirelessly on a solo planned for
February 2016 at iiauser &Wirth‘s year-old bucolic space, spread over a disused farm. in
Somerset Though he continues to dwell on
his past preoccupation with everydayobjects.
my most recent visit toGupta's studiosin Gurgaon. where works conceived at least ﬁve or
six years agowere being steadily realised. conﬁrmed what many had been hoping for. that
the superstar artist with Bihari roots was moving into new and exciting territory. Gupta's
contemporary litish Kaiiat. who curated the
second edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale
to critical acclaim. has similarlystepped into
new-olddomain by returning tothe constellation-like pattern that has recurred in many of
his visual motifs and focusing squarely on the
automaticity of its form. Kallat's new suite of
wind studies. which will soon be shipped to
Paris for his upcoming solo at DanielTemplon,
is beguilineg meditative in its process and
stunningly luminous uponcompletion. intuitively sketched lilies connecting an array 0f
circles are lined with an adhesive and set
ablaze. the direction of the temporaryﬂames

navigated by the wind. leavrng behind an endaskeicton-like
cluster
of
burnt
incand escence.
What lies beneath
The growing Impulse rowan]; interiority. in-

clusiveness. and selfawareness. rather than tion was the ﬁrst in a series of interventions
being led by market trends. are manifest in planned at Exhibit 320 over the coming weeks
the upcoming programming of many lndian by PRACforum (Professionals in Art and Curagalleries. Theyoung Delhi-based gallery Exhib- tion). a year-old informal umbrella organisait 320 — whichcould becredited withofﬁcially tion of practising curators.
ringing in the new art season — exempliﬁed
Located a few kilometres away, Nature
this mature spirit with 'Phenomenology of Morte. one of Delhi‘s most prestigious gallerPerception‘. an exhibition
ies, recently opened ‘Double
that brings under one roof
Takelagroup exhibitionofi7
three emerging female artists
I
artists from 12 countries. ८11from the Indian subcontif.
'३५
rated by Mumbal-based
nent: Bangladeshi Yasmin laLa Wig I M
American DianaCampbell Be
han Nupur. lahore-based
MW
tancourt. the show promised
Nuriahan likhlaq. and homelmm, Wm क्या
to “transform the gallery into
grown Parul Gupta. Before the श्या m an] mud. an, a ‘fun house' — or an attracwine could be served. before
क्या amin .
tion thatincludes Various do
the electric buzz of conversa. mm Mm. bunnywn vices intended to surprise.
tion could take over the galfrighten. bewilder or amuse"
lery. its In-house researcher
Hw—d
throughout the show. which
and curator. a fellow artist.
ison till October 3.a North to»
Meenalcshi Thirukode intro
rea-born migrant labourer.
duced to an eager audience Altansha Rastogi. lee MahnGll. will supposedly occupy an oval
who proceeded to oﬁer a nourishing slice of couch sans backrest atthe gallery.dressed ina
her ongoing research on lndia's exhibition dramatic whitebunny suit. tosimultaneously
history. it seemed poetic to inaugurate the
reference the idea ofsheer amusement aswell
bravely new by remembering the interstitial asexpose thatwhicli lies buried under the surmoments ofa vibrant past. Rastogi's presenta- face and exemplify the shoWs premise. to

- .uw ~. ‘

