) ] ] BLink saronoav. august 29. 24515
नं
.

COVER

‘ ll ll n t i ng‘. s igri al। 1 rig Th e ( l a tit iinuse i n l t ia

tiw ५ welcome month-long takeover ui (
titmould Preston Road. is rife wtth youthiul
energy. wtth stark lliat adequately questions
the conceptual as it builds itself around the
notion oi the bunting, a staple ornament 111
most festivities. The refusal oi participati
ng
artists to embrace the authority of an iridivtd-

Seasonal hues (clockwrse

from above) Vervet Roses
:oulrm i. ~ . १३० ८11 ii i. 5 us» ५
.mmrm. 'Kumartult‘ by Rani
Rahman :nu ८1५७५ (Dilil‘u
i». r 1 I» (amt Mac)“: -: Lee Mam!(ill at ‘Double Take' ८out

. अ९बैप्राष्ट्रबी५, mu. ७८२५
m. Ditw. 'Messes oI the

ually-derived authorship, bynot ascribing
any
work to a Single artist lll favourof promoting
the spirit of the collective. has deep political
undertones. And yet. Sutiiesh Shatitia. the 1111tiative's spokesperson. remindsus in his brief
introductory text that most of the partrcrpatirigartists are in lact iroiii Vidarblia. thehfaharashtra region infamous for a shocking
number of farmer suicides 'That very htriter»
landVidatbha sends the largest contingentof
students to the I] School of Art. and forms the
largest lllEluSiOn hete.‘ hewrites. This is a fact
well articulated at ‘Rethinkingthe Regional. a
landrtiarlt art historical survey show at the
Murtibai branch of the NGMA which is c urat»
ed by Maritslia Patti. current professor and former Dean of [I School of Art. and
contextualises the work of at least 170 artists
from the various districts of t he state.

Aftemoon' bywdha Saumya
Framesapart

295.M o M

Despite the fact that photography as a medium is often given the stepsisterly treatment
Within the art world and economy. or pErhaps
on account of it, plioto festivals havebegun to
w n mm ५५111 Mum
mushroom across the country. At last count. at
least six prominent ones had sprung up in a
span of just ﬁve years. in October. the Delhi
Photo Festival opens its third edition. titled
'Aspire'.at the Indira Gandhi National Centre
for the Arts (IGNCA). proriiising to be biggerin
scale and more ambitious in its pl‘Dgl'aIll‘
rtiing, Early next year Pondy Art. helmed by
Kasha Vande. will unveil its second edition. In
September. the NGMA will ﬁnally open the
mostariticipated retrospective of the iconic
Ptabuddiia Das Gupta.accompanied bya publication featuring his prescient body of work
Currently on view are 13 photographsby the
legendary and eclecric late colour photogra~
pher Raghubir Singh. so displayed as to be in
dialogue with three other photographers. '11tled ‘Conversations in Colour’. Singh’s work
shares space with tiiose of Ram Rahman. Soo
ni Taraporevala and Ketalo‘ Sheth, the latter
two oftvhom hehad actively mentored.
The Dr Bhau Daii Lad Museum in Mumbai
has mounted a month-long show of vintage
photographs by Bonnie Bi Shepherd. the oldest surviving photo studio in the world that
question “what are the powers, mechanisms. computer-generated art is aliriost archaeolog- has operated under thesame name suice 1913
and sleights of hand that affect the way we ical in its obsession with digging into thelay‘ Shown in collaboration with 'I'asveet. these
perceive the world around us?‘ In a similar ers underneaththe pixelated surface ofdigital cultural artel’acts demonstrate the studio‘s
vein, The Coriolis Eifect'. a show opening on images. which is the principal idea behind lllutl’hltdalllled picturesque style of photogAugust 30 at KHOI. promises a cross<0ntlnen- ’[housantl Kisses Deep‘. his ongoing solo at raphy. Almost simultaneously in Delhi, the
tal dialogue exploring thepolitical. social, and Chatteriee Mal.
ICNCA is displaying a grand range of work
cultural relationships between India andAfriin keeping with this locus on fresh talent, from the Mahatta Studio in a show titled '1३1८ca from the nth century: it is the outcomeofa Galerle Mltciundanl t Steintunng a Century: Mahatta Stufour-weeklong International residency:
weeks will soon host 'Body as
dio and the History of
Site'. which is bound to bean
r—A—ﬁ
Photography inl india dims»
Fruit notes
excellent show considering
2015'. The eventa so nc u es 3
Meanwhile, InMumbai. galleries in thefamed
the quirky practice of the two
'auw'w" Human 11" book release and art exhibition
an district In 5030 (South Bombay. for those featured artists: VldhaSauiiiyi.
cm" mm“ mm" of their cameras. _
whocame in late) are literally abuzz with ac- whom we ﬁrst encountered as
“km W
Early next year. theart world
tivity; The ubiquitous hell that signals the one of the gallery‘s employees
“kw” °' cm”
willimmerse itself in theIndia
gateway bemeen the bustling chaos of the and whohas ptttven to be pro
mm जल", h r".
Art Fair's eighth edition. which
streets and thecontertiplative caliii ofthe vast. dlglous in her skill with ink
mm “mm
plromifses to revamp intoifllashlgii-celllnged interiors. is being rung more and en and in treatin en—
५. _ __/
set a air to rega n its gt.
often than usual during workinghours. much der-iluid
p ﬁgures full of persongE
For the moment all eyes an:al»
to the pleasant surpriseof gallerists. mostof ality:
ready turned to Bangladesh
and
Buddhadev
whom have risked a fairamountofcapital and Mukheriec. a printmaker whose suite of lot forthebiannual Dhaka Art Summit.hosted by
faith in Ieatunng either inshoﬁ-theboat tal- watercolour works exhibited at the gallery's the Samdani Art Foundation. which set its
ent, like the Oriya artist Mayadhara Sahti with boothat the lnd la ArtFair this year was anef- standards quite high with its rather m'eting
his debut solo ’Vlllage Tales at Sakshl'. or fortless demonstration of his humorous fixae second edition in2013.
emerging but experimental ones who aren‘t tion
with
a
kind
of
reverse
Inherently 'sellable', That includes Mumbaia anthropomorphosis. endowing a singular uoutvre o’ultto is a Delhi-Med art ८1114८, writer
based French artist Fabien Charau. whose male form withanimal-like accoutrcments.
.1 Ddedi to!

