. .,.,,,'..V.AN TU ।:२गुते E N EV

.

lvan Sergeyevich Turgenev was born in Oryal some two hundred miles south of Moscow in
1818. His boyhood spent in the tyrannical atmosphere of his mother's estate of Spasskaya laid the basis for
his religious and political credo—that of justice in Russian social and political life.
A man of noble birth, liberal inclination scholastic pursuits and extraordinarily gifted Turgenev
was a representative of the new Russian intelligentia, as much at home in Berlin or Paris, Moscow or
St. Petersberg. Against the backdrop of a changing literary climate of the 1840's Turgenev arrived as its
chief spokesman heralding a “new literature dedicated to the people and their needs" - an observation
inspired by the publication of his collection of short stories entitled ‘A Hunter’s Sketches.

From the romantically- spectacular, striking and extraordinary flavours then

fashionable, his

Sketches introduced to Russian literature more commonplacethemes; discovering hidden poetic Sources

in the humdrum prosines of life. His trenchant condemnation of serfdorn provoked the Tsarist regime to
banish him to his Spasskaya estate.

Thereafter,

living mostly abroad, came more novels and with it

more critical acclaim. Rudin (1856), a Nest of the Gentry (1859), On the Eve (1860), Fathers and Sons (1862),
Smoke (1867) and somewhat later Virgin soil (1877), established Turgenev as One of the founders and
classics of the Russian realist novel.

His emotional life was dominated by his attachment to the famous opera singer Pauline Viardort,
whom he met at her first visit to St. Petersburg in the 1843-44 opera season and with whom he remained
intimate till his death in 1883. It is characteristic of a certain cc-ntrariness in his nature that he should also
have been on very amicable terms with Pauline's husband Louis Viardort.

The gentle comedy of this piece

’A Month in the Country’ conceals a masterful expose of

different characters; and beneath the inconsequential nature of the actual plot of the play, are extremely
complex and many faceted personalities. A Turgenev play can not draw from us the out right laughter
that a farce evokes, it can draw only a smile of rueful self recognition, for the characters are too much
like ourselves.

Within moments of the opening of the play, one feels one knows what appear to be the ‘stock-types‘
that people it — but as it develops, and thru getting to know them better, we find, as we do in real life,
that we are unable to categorise or judge them.

