MARSHA NORMAN : A NEW VOICE IN THE THEATRE
A powerful dramatist, Marsha Norman is at the crest of a wave of adventurous young woman
American
playwrights—a proliferation that is the most encouraging and auspicious aspect of‘the current
out"
“getting
is
work,
first
her
of
title
the
by
illustrated
as
plays
A primary theme of Miss Norman's
theater.
३
“
3
(
"
.....
past.
and
marriage
blood,
of
ties
severing
forcibly
a leave-taking, a woman

Characters in many of the plays written by women are learning to express themselves as
individuals outside of marriage and family. in some of the plays, men are absent or unimportant, and
children are unseen or unborn. These plays are about daughters, if not sons, who remain offspring even into
their 30’s. The playwrights are more concerned with identity than with community. At the same time, they
are not speaking from a position of defensiveness about being women. .....
A number of the writers have their roots in specific environments, often regional and nonurban.

They are in their 30's, postwar babies who grew up in a world conditioned by television, easy travel, flights
into space and the fragmentation of families. They are writing primarily about women of their generation, but
the plays also deal with mother, fathers and husbands who are resolving their own attitudes toward the newly

liberated women in their lives. In some of the work—and this is also true of many of their male counterparts
there is a re-evaluation of tradition, an attempt to understand the effect of formative influences and to
redirect one's place in a family of the future.
Trying to explain the increasing number of female playwrights, Marsha Norman says: “Plays
require active central characters. Until women could see themselves as active, they could not really write

for the theater. We are the central characters in our lives. That awareness had to come to a whole group
before women could write about it".
“Women surface as playwrights when the conditions are right,”
a contemporary British dramatist, “when there are changes in the

writes MicheleneWandor.

dominant sexual

morality

which

benefitthe social position of women; when a movement for political change includes a feminist
component, or when revolutions in theater itself make it possible for women to seize the time
and make their own mark."
One organization, the Actors Theater of Louisville, has been preeminent in its encouragement of
plays by women. Jon Jory, its director says with admiration: "With women today, there is a kind of directness
and toughness, a lack of fragility. . The characters in their plays very often seem more emotionally affecting
to the audience than characters men have been writing about. While men are dissecting characters and detecting flaws, women are creating characters you can love. That says something about women's new,
positive sense of self.

the

They are finding a kind of support system for each other".

Miss Norman is extremely intelligent and self—assured, someone who regards herself, her work,
theater and the world around her with the utmost seriousness. In contrast to the image one

receives from her plays, however she treasures the objects cf her family heritage. In her home life, she is very
much a preserver, surrounding herself with Indian rugs, antique quilts and ceramics.
About ",Night, Mother. ”she says "I thought this was a play that no one would ever want to see,
so there were no compromises to be made. Just write it for you, get it straight, get the score settled."

