The play is based on events she is

unwilling to

reveal.

“We all know people who have killed

themselves, " she explains, ”and we are hurt and confused, and we would like to understand even if we can't
accept what they did. But they didn't give us the opportunity. The play should not be seen as something
from my life, but as something from our lives. The best plays, the ones that last, are communal dreams.”
Miss Norman does not believe that people go to the theater just to be entertained. As She
says, "There are a lot of other sources of entertainment — cheaper and quicker." Then she theorizes.

“People come to the theater for confirmation of their view of the human condition.

Are the problem that

I know problem that other people are aware of ? Is it as scary out there as I think it is? Who else has been

brave today?"
Sitting at her dining-room table surrounded by the objects of her life, the playwright talked
about herself, her play and her approach to theater. A conversation with her roams freely from Kierkegaard
to Aristotle, from Flaubert to Doris Lessing. She spoke about her fears.
”I have terrible emotional ups and downs," she said," periods of depression. But I don’t sit in

them and weep and wail-and woe to anyone who tries to cheer me up. What keeps me fighting is the
conviction, a requirement of my life, that front that darkness comes an understanding What is Roethke‘s
quote? 'You learn by going where you have to go.’ More and more it seems like a journey with detours.
I'm troubled by what people don’t say, by what we never understand about each other. I am most in awe of
our small victories when we manage to understand how someone else feels." Referring to the daughter
in " ’Night, Mother." she explained: “Jessie thinks she cannot have any of the other things she wants from

her life, so what she will have is control, and she will have the courage to take that control. Mama, a woman
completely unprepared for this moment, is ready to fight with everything she has to keep her alive.

”One of the things I believe is that our relationship to things of our life determines our ability
to survive". With a sweep of her hand, she indicated her rugs, quilts and tapestries. “I believe in weaving,
strands woven through other strands creating a piece that cannot be torn apart. Mama's grasp of her life
is her grasp of her candy dishes, sofa covers, crossword puzzles, her house.

escape any relationship to... teacups.

Jessie has managed to

In the end she says, 'I keep thinking what it is that might be worth

staying for. Maybe if there was something I really liked, like rice pudding or cornflakes.‘ Jessie doesn't
to
even have something like that to hold onto. Jessie says, ’I did‘t want you to save me. I just wanted you
yourself.
about
knowledge
of
gift
the
someone
giving
love,
of
kind
profound
most
the
is
know’. Knowing
We all expect to get through life by mind-reading about each other."
Speaking about her family, she said: “So much of what I do is an absolute violation of what
my parents believe in. The don't know where it came front. Mother feels she'll have to answer for it. St.
Peter is going to say: Why IS “Getting Out" so profane?’ For a long time l struggled to get Mother to be
more like me. There comes a moment when we have to release our parents from our expectations. One of
mortgage of
the problems for daughters and sons is that you come into life with an unpayable debt, the
all time.”
Turning to the subject of playwriting, Miss Norman explained, “I start with moments of extraor
in
-dinary courage by people who have few skills with which to handle the moment. l am not interested
victim".
a
is
he
feels
who
anyone
in
writing about indulgence of any kind, and l' m not interested
:
She says about herself and other contemporary playwrights, men as well as woman
must
we
and
lines,
front
the
on
soldiers
valiant
marching,
"I almost see us as this battalion,
" In
not step on the mines. We are trying as best we can to clear the path, to tell you what's out there.
people
have
not
and
plays
write
can
we
"Now
playwrights.
sister
the vanguard are Miss Norman and her
of secret
put them in a little box labeled ’women's theater,‘ "she says. “It’s a time of great exploration

worlds. of worlds that have been kept very quiet."
Excerpts from an antele by Mel Gussow in the New York Times Magazine

