ही 8 -… N yaya M a rg .

Resi : 63704

Chief Engineer

D-280, Toderrnal Marg,

Al । a habad

Bani Park, Jaipur 302006

2 Feb . , 7 .9 79

Dear Shri Mantri

Dated: 72th February, 1979

I am deeply grieved to hear from you about the death
of our dear friend Saksena. It is quite a shock, I must
confess. He was so young and so active, I wonder what
happened to him. Was it his heart or high blood pressure
or what ? I am sure he was in his middle forties, certainly
this side of fifty. That’s no time to die. I am greatly
pained. Please convey my heart-felt condolences to his
family. True, we had been out of touch with each other
lately but I could little suspect that things were cooking
this way. I can quite imagine your loss and should like to
share it, if such losses can really be shared.

He was one of the finest man I have met, truly warm
and affectionate, homely and informal and above all, dedi-

cated to the Theatre. It was his very life. He is certainly
going to be missed, more and more acutely as days pass.
Nevertheless, such being the stuff of life, | feel that the best
way to cherish his memory would be to try and build up a
really powerful theatre movement in Rajasthan, a theatre that

does not so much care for the frills of ’modernism' as for a
truly living, meaningful theatre that has strong bonds with
the people, their sufferings and their aspirations, since such
indeed was the kind of theatre that our dear friend believed

My dear Shri Mantri
I am glad that you are organising the Xll Drama Festival

of Indian Languages during this year also, but we all greatly
miss the dynamic personality of Shri H. P. Saksena who is

no more with us.

He was a steadfast Artist known for his

love of drarnatics and devotion to duty. _ He was a tower
of strength to the Cultural Society of Rajasthan.

The only

humble way by which we remember him is to continue to

organise the Drama Festival in future in his name.

in .
Yours in grief

AMRIT RAI

Yours since re/y
S. A D AV I YA P PA

