DELHI ART THEATRE
Delhi Art Theatre has earned a distinctive Place in the capital

serious approach to the theatre.

for its

It has many goOd pmdUCtionS ३0 .ltscredlt:

which include such good plays as Kesro, Godan, Dada Damodar,

KGI’IJOOS, POSt

Ofﬁce, Shodoshi and Devi.

Their latest is a musical in Punjabi Chamz Badlan Da.
'
h.
The Delhi Art Theatre, a pioneer in producing modern operas in t is country, has a long string of successful productions to its credit, culminating in the
opera Prithvz’raj Chuuhan.
The group has been acclaimed by the Press and public for its contribution
in giving a new direction and shape to a genre, which in time to come w1ll greatly
enrich our cultural heritage.
No art form can ﬂourish without adequate patronage—whether the patronage comes from the government or from other public institutions is immaterial, as
long as the patronage does not take the form of domination in creative work.

Unfortunately the authorities in this country are not yet conscious of the
need to help this great art form. It is only the creative spirit and the artistic urge
that has enabled the group to put up operas.
Technically we have advanced far ahead since our ﬁrst opera was put up
a decade ago.

But

the raw material

has remained almost the same.

There are

no funds to give training to the singers and actors, there are no funds to employ
trained hands—it is a vicious circle. The public rightly demands productions
of a high standard, the group is capable of delivering the goods, but the wherewithals are missing. Largely a cast of amateurs is collected somehow. training
is given during rehearsals and by the time the show is over, the cast gets

scattered.

For the next season the same process starts all over again. How long can it go on?
It prevents the group from giving its best, it prevents a nucleus being formed of
permanent singers and actors. All because no one in authority has as yet considered
it necessary to render adequate ﬁnancial help to nurture this art form.

Address:

FLAT No. 36, SHANKAR MARKET
CONNAUGHT CIRCUS

NEW DELHI-1

