मटर '

ष्टा

-_ __...~___._-_. ..____4

स्का) - l m

, ___,...J

’I‘UGHLAQ AS UNDERS’I‘OOD BY US
“Tughlaq” written originally in Kannada
by eminent playwright, director and
actor Girish Karnad in 60‘s has been
a challenge to enact on stage for many
a th‘ eatre persons right since its origination. It has been translated in differ-

ent languages and so far been now it
has been variously handled and
intrepreted by likes of Omshivpuri,
Ibrahim Alkazi, Shyamanand Jalan,
Satya Dev Dubey, Prasanna and

Dinesh 'I‘hakur among a few others
stalwarts of theatre.

in a historical backdrop may be as an
entertainment value or for drawing
comparisions between the socio, economic and political conditions of a period as old as eight hundred years and
of our modern times or for both. Our
emphasis is on highlighting this con‘
temporary touch in the play.
It is the story of man’s forceful degeneration brought down by the people,
narrow in vision and having their vested
interest who failed to read an essentially
humanbeing, dreamer on practical and

Among others, Ibrahim Alkazi more no-

realistic grounds, secularist, prudent and

tably gave “Tughlaq” a very grand historical scale, full of glitter of old traditions and customs, by staging it for the
ﬁrst time inthe premises of Delhi’s Old
Fort for NSD repertory.Since then this
drama has become a dream to stage for
many an enterprising directors who
otherwise could not do it only because
of lack of resources to stage it onthe

intellectually sound powerful ruler; a
ruler who thought much ahead of his
times, a quality which made him think
more and more untiringly the alround
development betterment of his people
and empiretill he is ultimately forced to

same grand scale which has become a

standard with which Girish’s Tughlaq
is being identiﬁed and visualised by
most of the theatre workers and goers
alike.
Our idea is to break this myth. For what
we visualise about the various characters and situations Within the play is
their contemporaryness , which otherwise have been putup 'by the dramatist

९

change his track.
The plot highlights the clash between
power, politics and religion in which
neither side gains but a third party has
been left with an opportunity to exploit
the situations. This party has neither
any morals nor any vision of life. This

party is through and through
matrialistic coupled with degenerated
values. This party represents a true
picture of our opportunist modern times.
This play is the saga of a man who ul-

J

