timately got confused with hgis own
vision of life while fighting various
deterents, lossoing his sensitivity, high
morals and humanity.
The drama begins with the declaration

Khalifa’s
grandson
Mohammadjl
Ghiyasuddin Abbassi, it is found that
real. Ghiyasuddin was killed by this impersonator Aziz who had earlier also,
cheated 'I‘ughlaq as a real opportunist,
taking advantage of his benign schemes
ﬁrst in the disguise of a Brahmin, then
as a royal servant and finally as
Khalifa’s impersonator. This policy of
secularism his experient with copper

of Qazi’s verdict penalising Sultan
Mohammed-Bin-Tughlaq for usurping
the land of a Brahmin, followed by his
declarations of shifting his capital from
Delhi to Daulatabad as it is in the cen-

coins; relief in land taxating and change

tre of his large empire and also safe from

of capital; all are failed. he stands a

foreign attacks. Protests are made

betrayed man when historian barni, his

against this decision by Amirs and

close courtier also leaves him alone in
utter dusgust.

religious

leader

Sheikh

Imamuddin challenges ’I‘ughlaq’s secular outlook and progressive approach. his
friend Amir-e-Awadh, Ain-e-Mulq revolts

against him. Shahabuddin another loyal
becomes a party in a plot to kill him
and inturn is killed by ’I‘ughlaq; his real
mother hates him; his stepmother gets

killed Najeeb, a trusted wazir of 'I‘ughlaq
and Tughlaq in a bit of shock orders her
death sentence. it may be co-incidence
that his father and brother were killed
while performing Namaz; plot to kill him
was also executed when he was performing Namaz. Although in both the

incidents he was also instrumental to
some extent but these incidents shook
his faith in God and he is Psychologically forced by himself to ban Namaz in
his Kingdom. But ironically after ﬁve
long years when he intends to restart
the Namaz with the blessings of

’I‘ughlaq stands as a broken man who
was earlier full of optimism. His secular
character, even while his staunch belief
in his religion, his progressive outlook
and desire to serve people and his respect for various thinkers and philosper
like —- Aristotle and Plato who belonged
to a different religious order and his

extreme sense of appreciation of othres’
view points and traditions of other ruling country’s for instance China, all
make him a perfect model for our leaders
of modern times.

This play, choosing incidents from
Mohammad-Bin-Tughlaq’s life, sketches
a drama full of human sentiments, clash
of human values, social relations and

politics.

७

Umraus;

