WORKING ON MATTAVILASAM
KUMARA VARMA
One of the problems faced

by

an

Indian theatre director of our times is how

to adapt his theatrical traditions to suit the
requirements of the contemporary stage.
It is all the more acute for him because

his training has mostly been in the western theatrical traditions. Faced with this
dilemma his form of expression would

evolve only out of a creative i nterpretatiOn
of his traditions in
sensibility.

the terms of modern

An extensive dramatic literature and

thought, multitudinous style of presentation handed down through generations
and elaborate and rigorous methods of
training, among other ,things, constitute

the tradition., And the stradition is still
alive and meaningful for a large body of
of potential audience.
‘ ३

“Mattavilasarn” dates back to 7th century
and exposes the degeneration and decadence of

religions of

that period.

Both

Hindulsm ’ and
Buddhism
had
split
into many sects which often fought among
themselves. Religions had reduced itself
to rituals.
As a penace for plucking the head 1."
of Brahma in a fit of anger, Siva, at the दृ'
instance of Vishnu, drank out of Brahma‘s
skull and laughed to forget his sin. We
have a parody of it in ‘Mattavilasam’ For

the Kapalika the panance of Siva is reduced
to the mere act of drinking.
The Buddhists are also being ridiculed
by the author. The great renunciation of
the Buddha has already been forgotten.
The monks have started indulging themselves in worldly pleasures The Buddhist
monk in the play goes to the extent of
saying that indulgence in women and wine
must have been originally sanctioned by
the Buddha. From the stages of preliminary reading to the actual performance
the realistic methods of play ' production
would not suit the highly stylized form of
Sanskrit drama. For the playxl have adapted
elements from various forms I ike- Kootiyattarn and Kathakali and tried tog: integrate
them into a unified whole. I also drew on

my experience of producing Sanskrit and
Malayarn plays in Kerala in the late 605
and early 705. I had at that time tried to
discover a style that was based on the
classical and folk theatre form of Kerala.
While experimenting with the traditional forms I found that it would be
unrewarding to c0py them in ditto or stick
to one single form. Rather these forms
should be a source of inspiration in evolving a new style through assimilation and
Integration. l hepe that through such
experiments we may strive to arrive at a
suitable style of presentation of Sanskrit

plays for a modern audience.

