T H E P LAYW R l G H T’ S NOTE

Chasiram Kotwa/ is not a historical
play. It is purely and simply a play! A
play is a play alone. It goes against the
integrity of a creative piece of writing
to be called historical or mythological
or social. Time can quickly turn social
into historical and historical into
mythological.
Nevertheless this play has been
cooked
in
somewhat historical
kitchens. But the play only thinly
draws from history and no further. And
the ingredients are as much historical
as they could have been contemporary. Maharashtra was ruled by the
Peshwas; Nana Phadnavis was their
Chief. There happened to have been a
Chasiram, Brahmins, a Maratha Government and together these entities
were ﬂowing, at times parallel and at
others colliding. Whether their
conduct was proper and relevant is for
the scholars of History to decide and
not for the playwright. That is the
reason I maintain Chasiram Kotwa/ to
be an ’unhistorical’ play.
When the reality is coloured with
our morality and gets reborn through
our creativity it turns into a kind of
legendary folk tale. Well Chasiram
Kotwa/ is quite like that. Such a tale
can either remain a myth or touch us as
an intense experience. There is no

doubt that only intense experiences
make truly creative literature. In a way
it is more important to gauge our own
reactions and investigations into events

than to discuss the makings of folk
tales. To me, Ghasiram Kotwa/ is a

pointer towards a definitive social pre—
dicament. This predicament is timeless. lt is not limited by Geography
either. It is independent of its locale,
born purely out of societal conditions
and so are the Chasirams and the
N anas .

To use the alternative of a (folk) form
during the course (of the play) was a
deliberate decision. Folk plays have
the famous flexibility which is most
useful for a tale such as this. There was
no reason for me to give the privilege
up.
But then an author ought not to
speak much about his own work; let

the work speak for itself, and that alone
is the truth.
Vijay Tendulkar
(Excerpted from the published introduction to
’Chasiram Kotwal’)

