T H E D । R ECTO R’ 5 NOTE

March 1974
The ﬁrst thing which interested me
deeply about Chasiram Kotwa/ was
the use of the human curtain and that
was at a time when I had not read the
play. But everyone who had, talked
about it in such terms that it fascinated
me. It was in March 1973 that the
excellent translation by Vasant Dev
reached me. I had a curious reaction
after the first reading. I was very
excited because I was sure that the
play could lead to a tremendous pro—
duction .
The old dictum that a play becomes
fully alive only on the stage was never
more true than in the case of Chas/ram
Kotwal. It is possible that a reading of
the play may not reveal all its implications. For it is likely that one’s attention
may be distracted by the characters of
Nana and Ghasiram and one may miss
the most important aspects of the play.
It needs to be emphasised that in some
plays--or perhaps in all major plays —
the plots are the least significant. In this
play too it is not the rise and fall of a
tyrant or the lecherous history of
another tyrant, which should be given
too much emphasis. In fact they
should be seen only as parts of a larger
whole. One should remember that in
some plays the plots are just pegs on
which some other issues are hung. So
is the case with Chasiram Kotwal. I am
sounding the note of caution because I
myself did not fully realize the full significance of the play till I had discussed
it at length with Tendulkar and had

gone through it a number of times. The
emphasis is on the wholly decadent
and pleasure loving society, the sort of
society which can give rise to
Ghasiram and kill them too but at the
same time willing to tolerate tyranny in
another garb as long as their topsyturvy values are not disturbed. It is this
which one may not get after reading

the play and it is this which has to be
got across if the play is to be meaningful in the contemporary context.
This was the basis on which the
whole production was designed in all
its details — music, dance, movements
and speech patterns. It is a period play
in the sense that it is located in the late
18th century Peshwa period of the history.

But

in

another

sense,

as

suggested earlier, it is beyond those
times. To evoke an atmosphere of the
period was essential but I did no consider it absolutely essential to attempt
strict authenticity.
While i am on the subject of authenticity let me also mention that the total
design of the production did not
conform to any particular traditional
theatre form. Though the play itself has
used elements of more than one folk
form, particularly of little known
Konkan folk form and of Dashavatara.
But I did not consciously stick to any
particular folk form. Instead I let myself
g0 and went on creating and designing
in the process itself. And in retrospect it
seems that given my background and
temperament that was a right decision.
In this process there has been atleast
one major departure in form from the
script and that brings me back to the
use of the human curtain.
Whereas in the script the people
who form this human curtain become
at many places in the play either a
stationary ’curtain’ or a moving one.

But in the production it came to be
used primarily not as a ’curtain’ (in fact
it was only at three or four places
where it was used as a ’curtain’), but as
a collective human presence which I
believe ultimately helped in putting the
emphasis on the decadent society as a
whole rather than on the individual
character. At some places where the
script demanded a use of the ’curtain’ I
tried simultaneous action at two levels

