based on the myth of king
Pentheus of Thebes and the god

atre from the Northeast. A total of ﬁve

North east ta kes centre.- stage " . I 1.
Five plays from the Northeast will travel across states with the

।

l

।'

plays, two each from Manipur and Assam
and one from Sikkim, will be staged.

Dionysus. Staged in Manipuri, the
play juxtaposes the conﬂicting

This is the ﬁrst time that a festival
focused
on
theatre
from the

nature of man — one that is
rational and civilised, as repre-

Northeastern states is being organised

National School ofDrama, writes Veenu Sandhu

sented by Pentheus, and the other
that is instinctive, as characterised
by Dionysus.

in the northern states of India. Last year, '

NSD had experimented withthe concept
by taking some plays from the Northeast
to the south —- to Hyderabad, Mysore,
Bengaluru and Nashik. “They werevery

well received,” says NSD Directorwaman
Kendre. “So this time we decided to head
to states in the north.” While NSD has

ing and the conversation

since 2008 been taking plays from other

veers towards the romance Man'pun' "आओं

parts ofIndia to different regions ofthe
Northeast under its annual theatre festi‘ val, “PoorvottarNatyaSamaro the drama school felt that this should be a two;
way process.

‘

Though only ﬁve plays will be staged
during the upcoming festival, theybring

with them a variety ofthemes.
Eserenga Rod (A Sunny Morning), for
example, is a short story set in Spain of
sweethearts from the past. Written by
Spanish dramatists Serafin and Joaquin
Stills from Bacchae, a Greek play in Manlpuri that will be performed at the festival

P oirei is a rickshaw puller. He is also

a philosopher agonised by the
misery of man. Every day as he
pulls his rickshaw through the streets,
he encounters a chaotic environment
and events that make his heart bleed.
Poirei lives in Manipur and his daily
excursions to earn a square meal bring

him face to face with death and mourning. He sees men dying. He comes upon
mothers calling out to their sons, searching, wailing and shouting. Much like
Siddhartha, before he became the
Buddha, Poirei searches for answers to
the cause ofthis misery.
Poirei is the protagonist ofa powerful

Alvarez Quintero and directed by Pranjal
play, Rickshaw . Amasung Nongmei
(Rickshaw and Gun), which the National
School of Drama, or NSD, is bringing to
audiences in Delhi, Amritsar, Jaipur and

Vadodara startingnext week. The play in
Manipuri, written and directed by S
’I‘haninleima, is part of NSD’s “Poorvottar

Rashtriya Rang Utsav”, a festival of the-

Andlove, religion, revenge and
loss of peace and friendship are
the underlying themes of
Lakhimi, written and directed
The '3'“? are an.“ ' by Anup Hazarika.

Saikia, the play in Assamese beginswith
a 70-something Dona Laura entering a
park leaning upon the arm of her maid,
Petra. Aroundthe same time, Gonzalo, a
gouty, impatient gentleman in his eighties, enters the park. His usual bench is
occupied by some priests so he is forced
to share one withLaura. The twoget talk-

The plays are all in Manipuri,

..
.
of frlends long gone. Time
.
slips by and the two
strangers keep conversing
like old friends. But sornewhere in that conversation

or Assamese. But
. ,
.
NSD Isn t worried
that language
could be a barrier.
amen is no
language barrier in

.
Nepah orAssamese. But Kendre
. , , .
1sn t worriedthat language could
be a barrier asNSD takes them to
Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat
apart from Delhi. “There is no

is the sense that they are

theatre, unless the

language barrier in theatre,

telling eachother made up play is verbose,'
unless the play is verbose,” he
stories, offriendswho don’t says Kendre
says. Even so, the audience will
exist at all.
be given a synopsis ofthe plays
before the shows.
Faith and social mores come up for
NSD hasregional theatretraining cen—
questionin HamiNaiAafaiAaf, a playin
tres in Gangtok (Sikkim) and Agarala
Nepaliinspired by AbNa Banegi Dehari,
(Tripura), with the Sikkim centre also
a Hindi novel by Padrna Sachdev, an
running a repertory company. HamiNai
acclaimedwriter ofDogri language. This
AafaiAafis, in fact, a presentationofthe
isthe story ofa widow and a saint whofall
Sikkim repertorycompany.
in love with each other, but what would
be the consequence ofthis romance?
The theatrefestivalstarts inDelhi on August
Greek tragedy also takes centre stage
24 andthen travels toAmr'ltsa r (August26withBacChae, written by Athenian play30), Jaipur(August28-Septerliber1) and
wright Euripides and directed by’I‘hawai
Vadodara (August30-Septer}ber3)
Thiyam. This grandiose revenge saga is

