gorky, maxim (1868-1936)
Gorky, the bitter. in choosing this pseudonym Alexei Maximovitch Peshkov revealed the key to the characters he was to describe.
Russian novelist, short story writer of memories, and dramatist, was born on March 28, T868 (HS), in Nizhni Novgorod (in 1932
renamed Gorki) His earliest years were spent in Astrokhon, but after his father's death in T 873 the boy was returned to his birthplace
to be reared by his maternal grandparents. His mother's death in 1878 occasioned still another change in Gorky's life. No longer
financially able to keep the boy, his grandfather sent him out into the world to work. Front then until early manhood, Gorky, always
ill-clothed, hungry, and homeless, worked at every imaginable form of manual labor. This difficult period of his life had two positive
aspects: he learned how to read from a cook on a Volga steamer, and he learned how the poor people of Russia lived. a lesson he
never forgot. At twenty-one, he left Kazan, where he had been living for a few years, to wonder as a tramp through southern Russia,
supporting himself by odd iobs.
Gorky's first story, "Makar Chudra“ (T892), was published in a Tbilisi (Tiflis) newspaper, but literary sucess come only with the
publication of the story “Chelkash” (T895) in the influential St. Petersburg iournal Russkoye bogatstva (Russian Riches). This
romantic tale of a iolly, carefree harbor thief and his plodding peasant assistant began Gorky's “tramp” period, lasting until T900,
during which he wrote some of his best short stories. With the story ”Ex-People" (”Byvshiye lyudi," 1897), however, Gorky abandoned
his early romantic style and began writing in a realistic vein. His best short story, “Twenty-six Men and a Girl” (”Dvadtsat shest i

odna,“ 1899), were written in this new style. This period also saw the formation of his publishing house, Znaniye (Knowledge),
which published works of young writers-Andreyev, Kuprin, and Bunin-whose fiction was tendentious, realistic and revolutionary. See

Andreyev, Leonid Nikolaevich.

