After T 900 Gorky lived mainly in St. Petersburg. Concentrating on the evils of Russian capitalism and its consequence
s, he became a
Marxist and ioined the Russian Social Democratic party, to which his royalties went, constituing its main source
of funds. in T 90T
Gorky's revolutionary poem ”Song of the Stormy Petrel" (“Pesnya o burevestnike") was printed in the Marxist review
Zhizn (life),

with the result that the review was closed and Gorky arrested. Because of his fame as a writer, he was released quickly. As he had
developed tuberculosis, he went to Yalta, where he became a good friend of Chekhov and Tolstoy. The next year he was elected
a
member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, but the Czar nullified the election because of Gorky's political activities. Chekhov and
Korolenko irrrrnediately resigned from the academy in protest. See CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVICH; TOLSTOY; TOLSTOY, LEO.
Gorky's active participation in the Revolution of T905 led to his arrest in T906. He was again released quickly and soon thereafter
left Russia illegally, remaining in self-imposed exile until T 9T 3. The years were spent touring the United States until the autumn of
T909 (despite considerable scandal stirred up by the press) and then Europe. He then lived mainly in his villa on Capri, which became.
a center for Russian political exiles. It was during this time that Gorky's writings lost most of their popularity with the Russian
intelligentsia and literary circles, which were no more interested in the avant-grade experiments of the syrnbolists and expressionists,
but he remained popular'with the lower classes. His novels of this period include Mother (Mar, T907), A Confession (Ispoved, T908),
0kurov City (Gorodok 0kurov, T909), and The life of Matvey Kozhemyakin (Zhizn Matvey Kozhemyakin, T 9T 0). His persistent
involvement in revolutionary activity becarrre an annoyance to doctrinaire and austere Marxists, who found him politically
undiciplined. He insisted on his independence and for a while preached a religiorrrystical philosophy called bogostroitelstvo (“God
building by the pepole"). But Gorky's international influence was important to the Marxists. Since, in addition, he supported their
opposition to Russian involvement in World War I, they tolerated his eccentricities. This early accommodation set a lasting precedent
for the relationship between Gorky and the Bolsheviks.
Returning to Russia in T 9T 3, Gorky began his autobiographical trilogy, undoubtedly his masterpiece. The first two books were finished

during the war years: Childhood (Detstvo), in T 9T 4 and In the World (V luydyakh), in T 9T 6. After the Revolution of November,
] 9T 7, he gave his active support to lenin and the Bolshevik government, but as the harsh war years. dragged on, his attitude to the
government became one of more benevolent neutrality. Since he was the only literary figure who was allowed to act independly
during these post-revolution years, he devoted himself to ”saving" Russian literature and its writers, establishing to this end such
institutions as the House of Scholars and House of Arts, founding WPA-type educational protects, and initiating a huge publishing
venture, World literature (Vsernirnaya literatura), to aid writers and scholars to find work as translators, lecturers, teachers, and so
on. In addition, he encouraged and instructed young writers and, in many cases, saved them from censorship or execution. Every
creative writer in the Soviet Union from T 9T 8 until his death in T936 was helped in some way by Gorky. During these busy years,
Gorky's only significant writings were his rnagnificient memories of Tolstoy, Chekhov, and Andreyev, Reminisce/res (Vosporninaniya,

T 919८1 922).
In T 921 , owing partly to ill-health and partly to his disillusionment with the new Communist government, Gorky left Russia for Capri,
not to return until T928. In this second exile he finished writing the third volume of is trilogy, My Universities (Moi universitety,

gorky with chekhov.

