a ct- 1
It's morning in early spring. Noisy atmosphere attacking the diseased Anna, the locksmith's wife. Baron irritates Nastya by snatching
her book now and then. Kvashnya straws her kindness to Anna and takes leave. Baron follows her to the market after arguing with
Satin and the Actor over sweeping the floor. The Actor who has poisoned his organism through alchahol exists in his drama world
while Satin replaces different words with those of the Actor's. Bubnov, the caprnaker, Klestch and Anna are in to the drudgery of life.
Anna gets more and more suffocated, Actor takes her out to the hallway. Kostylyov, owner of the basement comes in search of his
young wife Vassilissa and advises Klestch to become sober and kind to his wife, he utters words contradictory to his nature. Kostylyov
holds a doubt about the affair between Peppel and Vassilissa. Klestch tired of life, is rude, proud and waiting for his wife's death for him to go off. Except Klestch nobody talks of honour and conscience. Natasha comes with a new lodger, luka - a pilgrim. Luka
seems happy and considerate to every one. Peppel treats Boron badly, offers him half a bottle and asks him to bark like a dog who
in turn is reminded of his fallen status. Alyoshka cobbler and musician comes in a tipsy state and is thrown out by Vassilissa.
Vassilissa is doubtful about Peppel's attitude to Natasha. Luka tries to comfort Nastya who wants to get drunk gloriously and cry
again and again. Bubnov is very realistic to Nastya, the dreamer. Medvedev, the policeman gossips with Bubnov about the affair
between Vassya 8» his niece Vassilissa. He is after Kvashnya who ignores him by recounting the bitter experience with her passed
away husband. Kostylyov shouts that Vassilissa is going to kill Natasha. Every one except luka and Anna rush out in to the hall way.

In a genuine moment of human contact Anna sees her father in luka.

act - 2
Evening in the same basement. Satin, Baron, Gaiter and the Tartar are playing cards. Klestch and the Actor are watching the game.
Bubnov is playing checkers with Medvedev. Luko is with Anna. Anna tired, unhappy shares her feelings with luka while deceitful

