game is going on along side. The Actor wants to recite poems to luka, and forgets the lines he loved best. He is left with no faith in
himself. luka tries to comfort him by saying that there is a special hospital for drunkards where treatment is free. In the same way
he comforts Anna. Peppel and Medvedev quorell over Natasha. Luka having seen this fight advises him to go to Siberia. Peppel asks
Luka about the existence of God and luka tells him that if you believe he exists if you don't, he does not. While Peppel is perplexed
Vossilissa comes in and both of them confront the truth. Vossilissa confirms Peppel's, hatred toward her and love for her sister
Natasha. Peppel now understands that it was Vassilissa's desire for freedom from her husband and the desire itself was the primary
motive and not her love which forced her to draw closer to Peppel. She offers him 300 rubles and Natasha, to kill Kostylyov. Mean
time Kostylyov arrives in search of his wife. He squeals at Vossilissa and Peppel grabs him by the collar and throws him out. luka
who is a witness of this encounter advises him to cut off from Vossilissa and to go away with Natasha. Anna gives up struggling and
passes to the world of the dead. Luka and Peppel rush out to search for Klestch. The place is quiet. The actor enters looking for luka
to recite his recollected verse. Natasha sees her fate in Anna's death. Goiter talks to the Tartar about spring, villages, the peasants
and their ploughs.

act - 3
Early spring. Nastya is in her dream world, talks of her clandestine meeting with her lover. Natasha listens carefully. Bubnov teases
Nastya and she squabbles with him. She continues her speech and ends up sobbing. Baron and Bubnov laugh over her foolishness.
Luka consoles her. Luka narrates a tale of two burglars who tried to break in to his home and how he managed to be kind to them
by giving food and shelter. ln Luka's opinion iail doesn't teach any one to do good, nor Siberia, but a man can teach another man to
do good. Peppel asks Natasha to give him support in a new life style. He's ready to give up stealing for a new life with her. Natasha
is confused. luka also advises Natasha to marry Peppel. Vossilissa averhears this conversation and enters in to the situation. Kostylyov
also comes in. They threaten each other. The funeral of Anna makes Klestch's financial condition worse, no tools-no work. Natasha's
crying sounds are heard. Every one runs off to see what's happening. Peppel belabours Kostylyov who ultimately falls dead on to the
ground. Vossilissa asks the police to arrest Peppel. Natasha sees all these as a ioint plot of Vossilissa and Vassya and finally
collapses.

act - 4
It's night, remaining out casts gather to drink and talk. Satin-ex—convict inspired by Luka's humanitarian example declares his faith

in man's future. Natasha has disappeared. Shortly afterward they discover that the actor has hanged himself in despair.

