\

i,

.
दृ

त

Payel Sengupta

५

’

६" (V, r

-

part from the variety and uniqueness,
A the enriched collection of bandishes
from the illustrious Agra Gharana'
contributed literary value to the world of musicology. Although the versatile doyens of this
" gharana earned fame for their gorgeous voices and exceptional style of singing, they also
penned their thoughts with great expertise.
From the different shades of nature to- daily
life struggles, their compositions covered a
large canvas of creativity.
The famous voice of this ghar'ana, Vidushi
Purnima Sen, explained and presented some
rare musical gems with her smooth, sweet
singing style, while Meena Banerjee narrated
the texts of the bandishes. The vistaar's along
with the clear pronunciation made the audience connect with the essence of the programme. Purnima Sen began with the Raga
Barwa. The kheyal, “Prem baje moripayali-

Generous melodies
ya”, was written by Ustad Faiyaz Khan under
the pen name Prem Piya. The listeners were
enchanted by the combination of lyrics and
music. The Raga Khem Kalyan reinforced the
feeling of enchantment with a composition by
Ustad Ata Hussain Khan (Ratan Piya). These
lyrics captured the inner bond between the
mood and the structure of a raga. A beautifully sung bandish in jhamptaal, written by
Mehboob Khan, “Jaane akal aur sab bey akal”, was an apt portrayal of the combination
of the Raga Swani Behaag and poetry
The expression of
love, devotion and existence emerged with a
new philosophy when the
'

artist sang a kheyal writ—
ten by Ustad Yunis Khan,
“Karat shringarwa woh
to baar baar”, in the Ra-

"

ga Sahana. The presentation of the Raga Dhani with the lyrics, “Haath na karo mohe”—
written by Yunis Khan (Darpan) — was skilful. The creations of Ustad Vilayat Hussain
Khan (Pran Piya) and Ustad Sharafat Hussain
Khan (Prem Rang) were narrated with great
care. The depth and generosity of the artist’s
voice, a perfect amalgamation of dominance
and softness, added a new dimension to the
show. The accompaniment of Bibhash Sanghai (tabla) and Pradip Palit (harmonium) —
and Bidisha Sadhu’s vocal support — were
. perfect.
' ‘ he

Dover

Lane

..
Music Conference
‘ है" organized a two-day mu: ,पृ sical programme main-

. , उ' ly dominated by new tal' ’-' I

ent. The inaugural perश्चष्ण-गृह्रहाँ- -झ्व'च्चाच्चा- »-

formance by Sumedha Dey was enjoyable.
She sang kheyals in Multani. With her sweet
voice she tried her best to add shades of variation. The small murkis and honest, prolonged
vistaars were praiseworthy. She was accompanied by Mallar Ghosh (tabla) and Pradip Palit
(harmonium). The sarod player, Parthasarathi, played alaap, jar and jhala in Kafi. His
long alaap was interesting, and the guts captivating with the tabla of Shubhankar Banerjee. He ﬁnished with a melodious shivranjani. '
The voices of Surela Nandan and Shreya
Chatterjee created a charming ambience. The
bhajans, ragpradhans and thumrz’s were arresting; the artists were ably accompanied by
Santabrata Nandan and Pradip Palit (harm- .
onium) and Arunava Mukherjee (tabla).
But one expected more from the violinist,
Chintamani Rath. He played a brief alaap,jor
and jhala in Miyan ki Malhar as well as gats.
There was a lack of variation and a hidden
sense of hurriedness. The concluding
Bhairavi was charming. Kulamani Sahoo’s
tabla accompaniment was perfect.
/
-

