A NOTE ON THE EXHIBITION
One finds that in Indian art and architecture there exists
a closely integrated connection between philosophy and the
aesthetic experience. The whole concept of the entrance into
a stupa or a temple is an excellent point of illustration. The
process of entering from - the outside into the centre of the
“garba griha" occurs through a series of circumarnbulations in ever
narrowing concentric circles, in the case of the stupa. The entry
into a temple is through different chambers namely, the bhog
rnandir, natrnandir, jagmohan and the garba griha. This pathway
into the sacred chamber is meant to prepare the devotee
emotionally and to temper his mind gradually into a state of
concentration. It is also similar in its idea to the philosophy of
going through the entire experience of life and only after having
eXperienced it, to achieve the state of transcendence. Two basic
patterns thus emerge, one which is highly decorative and
another which is severely austere.
Whereas

in

the

Natyashastra Bharata

discusses

the

principles relating to dramatic expression, one finds in Indian
sculpture a visual representation illustrating these principles in
many different forms. Indian sculpture and architecture arise
from the concept of Hindu philosophy as does the Natyashastra.
Therefore one finds a strong parallelism between these representations and the rules for dramatic eXpression in the

Natyashastra. Thus in sculpture dealing with dance, the
episodes from the Ramayana, the Jatakas and those relating to
the life of the royalty and ordinary people, there is a strong
dramatic content which might relate fairly accurately to
B h a ra ta '8 descriptions.

sculptural representations that one
On
ed.
eal
rev
is
on
ati
cre
of
s
es
oc
pr
ire
ent
the
s,
ter
oun
enc
the one hand there is a metaphysical enlightenment that inspires the sculptor and enables him to create composition
through which he is able to convey an idea. The next step
is the transference of this composition into a physical form, that
of the human, the animal, and the natural, which the sculptor
In the

various

