derives from life. Therefore the final expression, arises as a
result of such union. This is a common process in the work of
any creative field of art or science, and in the present circumstance, of the dramatic medium as well.

Today one largely approaches “drama” in a limited sense,
restricted to a stage performance, centering around a dialogUe.
This is not quite the impression one gets from the Natyashastra.
Bharata’s detailed commentary indicates the closely integrated
use of dance, music, speech, movement and physical expression,
in the totality of the dramatic form, which makes it difficult to

decide where dance ends and drama begins, since one is a

part

of the other.

The exhibition is an attempt to recreate the totality of the.

classical dramatic performance, and illustrate the wide ramifications of the idea of drama; It is not possible to recreate an
actual performance of the period when Bharata wrote his
treatise, for no such direct evidence exists. However .by
juxtaposing the sculptural representations relating to dance,

music 8 composition and presenting them within an architec:
tural environment | feel it is possible to create a Spatial quality
which relates to that of classical. performances, and in this
manner approach the practical implications of the Natyashastra.

In another approach, one might relate each posture,
movement, sentiment etc. described in the Natyashastra to
sculptural representation in a chronological manner, and thereby
illustrate the text in visual terms, I have, however, at this initial

stage chosen to evolve the spirit of performance through the
development of idea, rather than chronology, as the latter would

mean a constant re- interpretation of themes through the span of
time involved, and is beyond the scope of the present exhibition.

This changing interpretation, however, is most important because
it would put into proper perspective the existing forms of folk

dance/drama like the Chhau etc, and the classical forms like
Kudiattam, Kathakali and Yakshagana.
Dr. N issar Al lana

