well known a: tistes and men oFlette: s from Kamataka
Special mention must be made of the get together
organised in honour of Guru Veerabhadra Nayak
during his visit to Delhi. Members of Pa‘ liament and
freedom ﬁghters from Karanataka have also been
similarly honoured.

matter for gratitude that we have been able to enl'st
the support of the large number of people for the

work of the Club.

They have offered their services

willingly and without reserve although they are all

busy in their respective avocations. दृ The
team

of ,‘g’bﬁice-bearers

Fernande's‘ M, P.

An organisation like the South Kanara C] ;b
Could not have been established and kept growing
without the whole heartedinv lvement of a number of
dynamic persons belonging to different walks of life.
It is our duty on this occasion to remember at least
the more notable among them. The late Mr. P.
Ranganath 81127137 who representhd L'DL‘PI in the
Lok Sabha was the founder President of the Club
He was helped in those early years by Mr. M.K.

is

headed, by

Mr.

present
Oscar

It includes आ-"': Dharma

Raja and Mr. I. Ramamohan Rao, ~‘_V‘ice Presidents;
Mr. P S K, Prabhu, General Secretary;— Mr. Arvind
Hegde Programme Secretary; Mr. B S. Shetty. Jt.
Secretary; Mr. D . R. Palan. Treasurer and Mr. B. T.
Ariga; Mr. MS Pujari Mr. BS. Nayak; Mr. H. Rathnakar Rao; Mr. SPRao; Mr. Suresh Pai; Mr. Pradeep
Kumar as Members.

Those who belong to South Kanara are requsted
to evince increasing interest in the activities of the
Club. They can strengthen the Club by becoming
life members and offering their talents both in the
sphere of‘organisation and in the cultural ﬁeld.

Dharma Raja and Sri S, M. Rao as Vice Presidents;
by Mr. P. Venkat Rao and M. S. Hebbar as Secretaries; by Mr. B. Krishnananda Hegde as Programme
Secretary. The Dharmadhikari of‘Shri Dharmastala
Sri D. Veerendr Heggade gave all—out support . and
encouragement to the Club. which is truly unforgettable. Almost all natioal dailces such as the Times of

It is my pleasure to thank all those who have
been kind enough to contribute advertisments in this
Souvenir. Special thanks are due to the Government
of Karnataka for making a grant—in-aid to the Club.
Mr. B. Krishnananda Hegde, who is at present in
Bangalore, has helped us in many ways. The Syndicate
Bank Recreation Club, Manipal, has also extended
its support. M/s Veerendra Printers, New Delhi
have done a ﬁne job of printing the Souvenir. Our
thanks are due to them all.

India, the Hindustan Times and the Statesman have,
by their wide coverage of the activities of the Club
facilitated the fulﬁlment of the objectives the Club.
The Yakshagana Festival is the most important
among the activities of the Club this year. A troupe
of Yakshagana artistes from Manipal is going to
present a series of plays.
For the ﬁrst time, the Club has decided to
honour the Chairmen of th Banks of South Kanara.

P.S.K. PRABHU
General Secretary

It has not been easy to keep up the activities '

It is a

३ ८८९)।

of the Club in this sprawling metropolis.

