G ADA YU D D H A
Ya k sh ag ana Dance -drarna

GADA YUDDHA is an episode from the great
epic Mahabharata. On the 18th day of the
Kurukshetra battle, the Kaurava King Duryodhana.
after the loss of his army and death of all his brothers tries to evade Bhima, his foremost foe.
According to the terms of the agreement even if
one of the Kauravas survived or one of the Pandavas
died after the 18th day of battle, the Hastinavathi
throne would go to the Kaurava King and Pandavas
would become his slaves. In his attempt to survive.

gets up and ﬁghts with renewed vigour. However,
Bhima is unable to vanquish Duryodhana. Time is
ticking away and Duryodhana has to be killed by
sunset. Krishna then informs Bhima thatt he best way
to kill Duryodhana would be to hit him in the thighs
where his pram (life) is located. With a mighty swing
Bhima attacks the thighs of Duryodhana, killing him
and bringing to an end the Battle of Kurukshetra.

Duryodhana hides in the lake, Visitampayana sarovarﬂ.
But Bhima’s spies succeed in locating Duryodhana.
Ashwatharna goes to the Sarovarv, tries to talk to
Duryodhana, and conﬁrms his presence.

Bhima asks his brothers to proceed to the lake
and kill Duryodhana. Dharmaraya however, wants
to consult Krishna before killing Duryodhana. He
feels that killing a foe \\ ho wants to escape and save
himself is not just and is against the principles of
Dharma. He is also reluctant to_ kill a close relative.
After a lot of pursuation, Krishna sacceeds in making
Dharmaraya agree to get Duryodhana killed.
The Pandavas, accompanied by Lord Krishna,
go to the Vaishampayana Sarovara. They try to get

Duryodhana out of the lake unsuccessfully. Ultima‘
tely,
Duryodhana
comes out
in
response
of the taunts of Bhima. He offers to ﬁght all the
Pandavas singlehanded. But Dharmaraya feels that it
would not be just and makes an offer to Duryodhana
to choose any one of the Pandavas for the duel.

Duryodhana chooses Bhima.
To start with, Bhima suffers reverses and falls
unconscious. With the help of Lord Krishna & Bhima

A scene ﬁnnz Gadha Tudd/za Thkxhagana Dance Drama
~~L0rd Kris/ma advising—Bhima

