linga at Dharmasthala What impresses the devotee
and the discerning visitor is th's harmonious blend
ofthe jaina religion with the Vaishnava and the
Shaivite worship at Dharmasthala.
According to tradition, the Divinities who made

Dharmasthala1heir seat had enjoined on Heggade
the duty of steadfastly dispensing justice, fair play
and protection of the weak and the afﬂicted. He is
to look after the folowers of all faiths without any
distinction. As a sequel to this ennobling tradition,
Dharmasthala has sanctuary that provides the
healing touch to those afﬂicted by ailments. both
physical and mental.

It is a facet of this tradition that the Heggade
has become the arbiter of civil disputes presented at
Dharmasthala for settlement. This method of setting
disputes through the Heggade‘s arbitration is one of
the tirne—honoured practices at th's institu‘ion which
has helped people down the ages freeing them from
the troubles and travails of long drawn out litigation.
This religious rite of a quasi-judicial nature is among
the several features that make Dharmasthala a unique
centre indeed.

Another unique distinction that has made Dharmasthala specially renowned is the provision of free
food, twice a (lap, to thousands of devotees every
day of the year. It all began with the rite of serving
hundreds of the pious each day before the Lord was
to be worshipped. This has been rightly hailed as
“socialsm in every-day practice”! Free feeding in
well-ordered dining halls in harrnasthala without
distinction of caste or creed is now a distinctive
fature acclaimed by one and all. Free food and
accomodation at Guest Houses with modern amenities are the hall-marks of service to devotees-rarely

provided to Pilgrims at other centres.
“Service of Man and Humanity”. as the esence
of religion is the message that ernantes from Dharmasthala. This has been enlarged in scope & cantent and
adapted to the needs of today by Shri-Veerendra
Heggade-the present Dharrnadhikari. No wonder
within a decade and a half since he took over the
reins as the twenty ﬁrst in the line of succession,
Dharmasthala has been put on the international map
as a religious and social-cum-educational centre of
unmatched excellence.

Shri. Veerendra Heggade was hardly twenty when
he was called upon to ascend the “gaddi” on the sad
demise of his illustrious father Shri Ratnavarma
Heggade. with earnestness and enthusiasm, rare for
one so young in years, he began to apply himself to
his responsibilities with commendable dedication and
spirit of reform and service.

A long and ever-expanding list of achievements,
extending beyond the traditional charities dispensed
at DharmasthalaAnnadana (free food) Aushada
dana (free medicine) Vidya dana (free education) and
Abhaya dana (spiritual protection), mark ﬁrst decadeand a half of Shri. Veerendra Heggade’s administration. Many rnore beneﬁcent activities continue
to engage his attention.
In expanding the scheme of medical aid provided
by the insitution, a TB Sanatoriurn with forty beds
has been set up at the nearby L'jire township. The
mobile Hospital maintained by the temple has
enlarged its service. It travels to distant villages and
remote parts of the State giving free medical aid.
A well-equipped van has been donated for the eye—
carnps of the famous eye-surgeon Dr. M. C. Modi.
Shri Heggade has donated equipment to several
hospitals in Karnataka.
A phenomenal expansion of educational service
under the aUSpices of Dharmasthala is yet another
highlight of the past decade. The Janata Shikshana
Sarniti at Dharwar with its Vidyagiri compus stands
as a shining example of work in the educational
sphere undertaken by the Dharmadhikari. Nine
Colleges comprising

the various faculties of Law,

Medicine, Engineering, Arts and Businese Management, two High schools, four Primary Schools and
nine other a'lied institutions including an Yakshagana
Training Centre are managed directly by Shri
Heggade.

Shri Veerendra Heggade is a pioneer of the
scheme of mass-marriages. Every year since 1972, he
has been conducting hundreds of marriages of couples
drawn from different communities and castes in accordance with their distinctive rites, on a single day
under one roof. He meets all their expenses including
that of wedding dress for the Couple, the bridal
necklace (rnangalasutra) and feast for the wedding
party- About 500 marriages are performed each year
under this novel scheme.

