The Banking Phenomenon of South Kanara-An lnterpretation*
by DR. N.K. THINGALAYA

SOUTH KANARA district has the unique
distinction of having the largest number of branches
of commercial banks among all the districts in the
country, excluding the me.r0politan districts. The
number of branches in the district which has a population of 23.77 lakhs (1981 census) is 395 as on date.
The total deposits mobilised by all. the banks operating
——-there are 27 of themw‘in the district are est'mateo
to be around Rs. 370 crores and advances are of the
magnitude of Rs. 209 crores at the end ofjune 1983.
The district is not having any large scale industrial
establishments or business houses, nor does it have
highly commercialised agricultural sector. In terms

of the per capita income, the district stands among
those districts which have a per capita income lower
than that of the State average. It is, therefore, a
strange phenomenon that we ﬁnd here, where banking
has made excellent progress by penetrating deep
into the rural areas.
An enquiry, therefore, into the factors which
have contributed to the growth of banking during
the last few decades in this district would be very
interesting. The economic factors may not explain
this phenomenon adequately as there are many
other more prosperous districts in Karnataka and
elsewhere which conspicuoust lag behind in banking
development. The sociologiml traits of the people
may partly cxpla'n this. in conjunction with the
economic conditions. A detailed examination oi
all the available data pertaining to tle economic
and social background (n the district would be necessary to understand the process of Banking develop.
ment in the district. An attempt is made in this
article to picc together the seemingly important
factors which might have contributed to the growth
of bankin 3 in South Kanara District.

HISTORICAL GROWTH
Banking activities in the district have taken firm
roots since the ﬁrst decade of this century. As many
as प्र० banks have come into existence in the district
during the four decades from 1906 to 1945. The
majority of them were started in Mangalore, the
district headquarters and a few have come up in
Udupi and Ciondappoor, the taluk headquarters.
Some of the smaller banks came up in some mofussil
places like Mulki and Moodabidri. The Canara

Banking Corporation (Udipi) Ltd. was “the ﬁrst
indigenous cosmopolitan bank of South Kanara
District” as an advertisement by that Bank rightly
claimed in early 1936. A chronological list of the
growth of banks in the district is given in next page.

Out of the no banks, today there are only 5 banks
functioning after a process of liquidation and amalgamation cf the rest of them. Among these ﬁve
banks, two banks,n amely Canara Bank and Syndicate
Bank have been nationalised and have at present
an all India coverage of branches. It may also be
pointed out here that these 5 banks have taken over
as many as 41 banks, big and small indifferent states
of South India. Of these, I 8 banks hay'e been taken
over by Syndicate Bank; Ctnara Bank IO, Vijaya

Bank Ltd. 9, Karnat aka Bank Ltd. 3 and Corportion
Bank Ltd. 1. Even the non-nationalised smaller
banks of late have embarked upon large branch
expansion programmes, extending their branch network to far-off places.
There are a good number of branches in the
districts which have been in existence since

three

*I‘his is based on the author’s research work
on his proposed book on “Banking in South Kanara”,

