Ya ksha gan3

Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow
BY : PROF. K.S. HARIDASA BHAT

Yakshagana is the common matrix for the rural
theatre of the four South Indian statesA-ndhra, T.
Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. In Andra Pardesh. it
is called ‘Veethinatakamu’, in Tamilnadu its name
is ‘Terkuttu’ while in Karnataka it assumes many
titles and forms, like Ata, Dashavatara Ata, Bayalata,
Bayalnataka, Mela, Doddata, Sannata etc. Kathakali
ofKerala is also Yakshagana with a difference namely,
mudras taking over the function of VACHIKA.

Originating some four hundred years ago
Yakshagana of Karnataka has entertained and instructed rural audiences down the centuries. A division
could be made

into Moodlapaya

(eastern

variety

prevalent in districts of North Karnataka and
South Karnataka) and Padwalpayd (coastal Karnataka
variety). A furthar subdivision in Paduvalp’y/I is between

badagu—thittu and t'lrenku-r/zz'r‘fu,.

of the

great

schism as it were, of the Dakshina Kannada DistJict.
The Karki Hasyagar troupe of Uttara Kannada has
the unqiue diStinctiOn of exporting this form to
distant Baroda and on the way casting its charm and
inﬂuence on the Marathi
stage.
Historians
of their
part
owe
of the Marathi stage
inspiration to the yakshagana form. Yakshagana
in its Moodalapaya variety remains quite rustic, vivacious and folksy; but coastal yakshagana has forged
into newer levels of art -c ' nsciousness what with the
organizational support provided by local temples and
a traditional audience to appreciate the shows
Charge is sometimes levelled against yakshagana
to suggest that it has become classical and elitist over
the centuries and therefore lost its claim to be folk
theatre. This is a baseless charge for even today
with a dozen and more ﬂourishing troupes yakshagana of the coastal tract remains a rural theatre with
artistes at the subsistence level and the audience

largely rural. More than eighty percent of the
performing centres are in remote villages and not in
Organizing talent for which Dakshina
the cities
Kannada is noted (vide its educational and banking istitutions which have made national and international impact) is fully harnessed to the service of
yakshagana. The Karnataka yakshagana Sabha of
Mangalore was the ﬁrst troupe to begin ticketed
shows inside canvas tents ala modecircuses during

the 1940's
In another sense also yakshagana is rooted in a

folk quality viz. its length. Still it is an all night
show. Experiments to shorten the duration by half
have not met with success. Spectators prefer an
all night show, although seldom does anyone keep
his eyes open all night, for the comfort of the easychair prompts one to dose 05 at will. They are
conﬁdent that the high sounding chande will awaken
them at the right moment.
'

Yakshagana is changing. The velocity of change
is geater now for many reasons . chieﬂy environme—
ntal. After all a folk theatre is not Bolshoi Ballet.
It changes. Discerning Scholars “and critics mourn
the passing away of a few traditional elements- and

fading away of its aesthetics.

Dr Kota Shivararn

Karanth was the pioneer researcher to discover this
and point to the need for preserving tradition and

also to suggest ways of doing so.

His investigations

with the art form have been most penetrating. While
there are other works which
have examined

yakshagana as literature and hesty. Karanth’s work
is most signiﬁcant because it takes an integrated view
of yakshagana; hence this is the most complete work
on the subject. Closely following Karanth‘s work
came Dr. Martha Bush Ashton’s elegant but less
original vrork yakshagana, a Dance Drama of

