THE ASSAM TRlBUNE. GUWAHATl

w 7 {fl

’

0CT 0B E

.

r

he Assamese“community of
Australia celebrated the lirsi
Assam Convention ona beautiful day at the Pennant Hills
Community Centre in Sydney
on October 1. This was awonderful opportunity for the Assamese diaspora in
Australia to meet.
३ greet and share the
L cultural roots of Assarri.
५ The Convention
started with a kickoff
meeting on September 30. where the
aims andobjectives of
the Convention were
discussed. Representatives from each
Australian state and
territory provided an
overview of the activities of their reदृ spective Assamese communities.
The cultural evening commenced
with a welcome speech delivered by
, Nayeern Islam. President of the Assa९ mese Association, Australian Capital
Territory and New South Wales. The
‘- president gave an overview of Assam
. Convention, Australiaand how the iri-

The team from Canberra \‘ilpilYiliUi
the audience with fabulous performances. such as Alex and Manash's soulful iiistrumental ru‘ital of the song Mayabmi
by Zubeen Garg and Manab Sarrna's brilliant mime act. The theme of this act
was “live and let live". It was based on

formed by BHI’\ZI, Ll\.’i ltiiliul lmlui llahiil ltziikliiiwzi. Priyzinkn. '\le’ll\il
Riha. Lisan. Itayaan. I Jam and Young.
The skit was i’ullmvt-il by «jun: Biliri.

which was indeed खपा) inusir a] and only
ourful, and it got the audience clapping
to its beats. The [)erlit'lp’dms were Monjita. BarnaliJonali. Mitali. Prashariti. la
pari. Partha and Shekliar
The cultural evening also featured a
number of old andnew Assamese rnelo«
dies, performed by some local artistes
lik'e Manoj. Jharna. Shekhar. Prashanti.

, Gitarijali, Sushmita, Pragati andBliaskar.

. at; 3

[ itiativehad been taken to build a strong
Assamese community in multicultural
v Australia. The convention was inaugu» rated by the Consul General of India.
i Sydney, B Vanlalvawna. who high;- lighted the culturalachievements
of the Assamese community in
५ Australia.The Lighting of the lamp
—BnntiPiojjalmi, was carriedout
by a representative from each Aus. tralian state and territory — ACT.
- NSW. Victoria. Western Australia.
, $outh Australia and Queensland. The
तु i Consul General also inaugurated the
३ first edition of the souvenir magazine
८- Xomunnoy.
॰५
This was followed by aSattriya dance
'3 by Nilakshi Borah from Melbourne, who
. beautifully presented Ram Katha. This
. ५ uandana began with Nandr' Sloka. which
मृ is sung in praise of Lord Ram. Her per. formanoe enthialledthe audience.
The representatives of the Australian

rnese toinmuniry globally. but also in
native Assam. It indeedCreated tilt atmosphere of a Biliu loll. The [Sthii [In]
was led by liliaskar Chem. and the par
ucipants were Nandini. Jliarna. Leena.
Vinita. fiayatri. Prarthana. Chandan,
I’ranab and Mom.
Another inesrnerismg item was a
medley that walked everyone through
the~differcnt pages of Assamese musical history and gave a complete picture
of Assarn’s rich cultural heritage. Gitanjali and Sushmitacompiled this inedley to give aglimpse into the melodies

of AssarnfThe medthe story of abird and a hunter.
Bhasha Char, Sydney, presented the
ten incarnations of Lord Krishna's

COmmu r1ity
Sp1r1t

Dashavatar. Suslunita
with support from
showcased this in a
Pranab. l’ranjal and
dance forrri. chanting
Mom on the accompathe prayer from Nam
nying
instruments.
The husband-wife
Ghoslra — Malsa Korma Narasinglia
duo
of
Papori
Barua
and Pranjal Bora
with ashankha or conch. The dance was
performed by young talents Lara. Tara from Perth. Western Australia also enand little Krishna Arohan, and introduced chanted the audience with their powerby Anay. Adi. Neev. Arhi,Vedantic, Akash ful performance. Prniiial composed the
and Dion. with candles in their hands. it background score of the songs, and accompanied I’apori on the
has to be noted that
the Assamese com- @mudha fa Kausmk acoustic guitar
Prartlianzi
Devi's
munity in Sydney has
invested time and energy in stabilising touching recitation of Keshab Malizinta's
poem Aglimmrhum/1i)? bal lilit‘li‘ त्यागा।"
aninformal
hen-mac
andcultural
appret 01::
L
I
i
V
amaui was memorable. The mostanticular Bhupen Hazarika number Date he ciation school Elms/m Char, providing ipated performance of [MC convention
data. The incredible aspect of this per- children with an insight into their Assa- was the Biliu performance by the Sydformance was that the singers had never mese roots, culture andtraditions.
The talented childrenfrom Melbourne ney Bihu (It)! — whose pt'rr'orinanr‘cs have
riiet or rehearsed together for the perthen presented a skit which was per- not only been popular among the . ३ है
formance. "
.

] ey comprised of
Bi'Im. boo man, liargeet. jhiifniir. ji'kir.
Goalpon'a lokqgw. etc.
Another brilliant
enactment was the
play Sim Harms. performed by the team
from Melbourne, The actors performed
the popular Rmnuyana sequence in a
humorous way. and managed to get the

audience into fits of laughter. The diariiawas acted in and directedby Dr Pranjal Deka. andthe cast included Dr Acti»
yut lialoi. Dr Vibhuti Malianta, Dr He»
manta Doloi, Rituraj Rajkhowa. Ritwrck
Borah,Shekhar Baniah. lndrani Borah.
Bhargav‘i Baruah. Manas Pathak. Dhan
Rai Baruah. Papari'Barrnan and Rangam
Rajkhowa .
The evening endedwith aBihu song
by Papori Barua from Perth. Papori irivitedeveryone tothe stage and they revoiled in singing and dancing tothe popu»
lar Bihugw. it was amoment to be cherished forever in this ﬁrst Assam Con‘
vention,Australia.

