After our recent successful tour to Hongkong with Dario Fo's FEMALE
PARTS, and to Bombay and Pune with Kusum Ansal's REKHA KRlTl,

Ruchika Theatre Group is happy to announce its December programme.
On the invitation of the National Centre for the Performing Arts, we return

to Bombay with three of our most outstanding productions of the past
few years.

December 10th, Saturday
LETTERS HOME
The life and times of Sylvia Plath
a play by Rose Leiman Goldemberg
On February 11th 1963, Sylvia Plath, saddened by the turbulent end of her

marriage to the poet Ted Hughes, enveloped in illness and disheartened by
the coldest, longest winter London ever knew, took her own life. In the month
before her death, caring for her children and worrying about her upcoming
divorce, she poured out the brilliant flood of poems that would 'make her
name'. She knew it. She knew that she had finally and in torment found her
voice. She knew that she was strong and respected and 'a genius of a poet'.
But that morning it was all too much, and she carefully poured milk for her
children, stuffed the doors and windows of her kitchen with clothes, put her

head down on the floor of her oven, and turned on the gas.
LETTERS HOME, based on the correspondence between Sylvia and her mother
Aurelia explores all the complex facets of this mother/daughter relationship.
Hauntingly beautiful and poignant, this play for two women has been performed
to tremendous acclaim all over the world. Our own production brings together
Srnita Vats, last seen in and as Anna Karenina, and Mona Chawla, last seen in
her triumphant one woman show; ' Female Parts'; as Sylvia and Aurelia Plath.

”Sterling performances. . . . Mona is an acclaimed performer. . . . Smita is absolutely
outstanding"
— The Hindustan Times

"Should not be missed at any cost"

-The Times of India

All productions directed by FElSAL ALKAZl
Shows are at 6.30 p.m. at the Experimental Theatre,
National Centre for the Performing Arts,
Nariman Point, Bombay.
Tickets at the theatre.

