*1 ८

25TH OCTOBER
'धीच:

i

३

हूँ

-

३

।

Script : Rati Mish‘ra
' “ct/3r ; Dhira Mallick
rrcseh‘ecd
“ Kalakar‘

Bhubaneswar‘

५ ८३'
i
I

S Y N 0 PSI S
The youth by instinct, sacriﬁce his personal interest for the better-

ment 0:” the society, For this, he is exploited and even tortured. The
story of exploitation of the youth is depicted in this play. "
The protagonist. Ranjeet claims to have been exploited indifferent
ages. He narrates the story 01" this predecessors who. for none of their
faults were abused, misu:ed. and even kept captive.

In the ﬁrst episode, the Moon and his wife Rohini were cursed
for no reasons by a Rishi. Th3 cursed expelled the Moon from the
heaven. He was born as Abhimanyu in the time of the Mahabharata
War and faught a brave but unsucessful battle. The story continues
to the Hi ,torical OriSsa where a youngman called Dharmapada rezcuses i
a group of twelve hundred sculptors from the wrath a of king when
the Konark Temple was constructed. But, by sheer selﬁsh motive all
sculptors forced him to commit suicide. He climbed to the top of the
temple and dived into the sea.
l

Ranjcet claims to be the post generation. He narrates how he is ३
being tortursd, humilated, caught and izn‘jrizoned by the big wigs.
l

He deterzttincd that he will not go in th: way his past has gone. He
Lnows how to pmtect and he has the courage to retaliate.
meant

He really

i t.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
ThlS play is written in a folk style. The forms used are Pala,
Daskathia, Gitinatya and traditional Jatra of Orissa.

CAST & CREDITS
{anjeet#Ashrumachan Mahanty

Satya—Sunakar Satapathy अ: Dha- ३

rma_pra3anm Dag नी Nyaya—Biswajit Mahanty बनी I’rerna——Prafulla Mahanty
Sutradhar—Trilochan Sahoo
Artist—Binoda Rout/Satwik Pahi
, BabymManidecpa Manic}; हैं Make—up—Banchhani
dhi Pattnaik/Kuni‘
Mishra

Stage ManagerﬂDamodar Nayak ३3 Seund—«DarpanarayanSethi

नी. Music—L. K, Palit AccompaniSt—Genu Das/Raghab Pattnaik I Brudabani’prasan Mishral’Prahallad Mallick Set DesignwKashi Rath अ: Light-4;
p, K. Das
Art—.Hcrnanta Sarangi
Costume—M. M. Barik
ll
i

