A Play in Hindi
I “enchant; मु.
"
Script; ; Blow“ '
Director : Parvez Akhtar
Presented by ; I .P . T .A ., Patna

SYNOPSIS
In our age, the ordeals which a truthful man has to face if he
wants to keep his committment with truth—is the main theme of this play.

The play is based upon a pOpular myth about a Suryavanshi
king of Ayodhya, named Harishchandra, who is committed to truth

and noble causes. For this truth, he gives up his Kingdom as Dan to
SatntViswamitra has a part of conspiracy by kings of God, Indra.
To manage Dakshina, Shaivya beloved wife of Harisehandra.
sells herself at Kashi.
Ha rishcha ridra also sells himself & becomes slave of a Chandal.
Harishchandra now keeps guard in a Shmashan ( cemetry).
He does not allow his wife Shaivya to perform a funeral of their
son Rohitashva without paying the half cloth from the dead body as
he is entrusted to do so.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
This production of ‘Satya Harischandra’ is a re-interpretation of
myth to explore our epoch by skillfully blending the folk form of North
—Bihar, the traditional Hindi and the classical Sanskrit devices.
The play has been written more than hundred years ago. The
dialogues are in formative Khari—Boli style ; whereas the songs. Manglacharn and lyrics are in Braj—Bhasha. Poorvi and Sanskrit
The Kathagayan, inspired from Keertania of Mithila region,
has been introduced and creatively intermixed in the total structure of
the play. The narrative dialogues of keertania are based on the
prastawana (Prologue) and upakram ( Preface) of the play itself
This device adds a new dimension to the play and also develops itself
as the matrix of the total structure of the production.
The style of acting, dialogue delivery, movements. costumes props
and other visuals are stylized in traditional / cinventional forms to create
the dramatic illusion and environment as well. The play would utilize
the traditional styles of presentation; motif, pictorialness of the frame.
colour symbolism. minimum setting. simple layout of scenic design; sty—

lized acting methodology : using various mudras padaetmchalan and
other angike and vachika acting devices But the emphasis would
be on rte—interpreting the theme through creative exploitation (ग्रे', these
traditional / conventional styles with an experimental modern out-look.

CAST & CREDITS
Indra — Sandeep Mukherji Dwarpal/Bhairav/Gana ~Abhijeet Sarkar
Narad/Gana — Tanvir Akhtar नीच Shaivya — Shampa Ghosh Saheli —Sonal
Jha Brahman/Pap— Sunil Jamuar * Harishchandra ~ Monoj Verma के
Mantri/Devata Vinod Ku'nar * Paricharik—l /Gana——Arwind Kumar Gupta नं" ३

Paricharik-Z/Gana Pawan Kumar Singh नी, Upadhyay/Gana— Rajesh Kumar *
Dharam / Chandai
Batuk—Arwind Kumar Gupta * Rohitashva —— Rahul
Sudhir Pathak'l‘ Anochar —Pawan Kumar Singh * Mahavidya —;‘-loopur * Daak
-Pankaj Kumar नी, Daakin -— Meenal Jha

Crowd ——

unil.

Sonal,

Vinod,

Keertania-l—Kaushal Mishra 2.
etc. ale Mukhya Kcertania — Dilip Sinha
Sunil Kishore है:-: 3 —Sanjoy Kumar ३३३ Stage Management—Sudhir Kumar
Sinha

Make—up & lights - Tanvir Akhtar * Custume & set —Parvez Akhtar

Music —Dilip Sinha *Choreography—Pankaj Kumar * Props-Apoorvanand
* F. O. H. ~— Shaileshwar Sati Prasad Design — Parvez Akhtar

