_

humorous episode.

SCENE 14
Radanika tries to make

SCENE 12
It is raining. Maitrak informs
Charudatta that Vasantsena will

Charudatta’s son Rohit to play

with clay-cart. 'I‘o divert his attention Radanika takes her to Vasantsena. Vasantsena gives Rohit
be coming and complains that
her ornaments so that he can
she did not welcome him properly. Vasantsena arrives drenched make a gold cart out of them.
Radanika informs her that
and she changes her clothes.
Vardhamanak has come to take
Chetti tells Maitraka that Vasher to meet Charudatta, she tells
antsena has gambled away the
Ratnavali so she offers the stolen them to wait as she will beautify
herself and then come.
ornaments in lieu of Ratnavali.
Charudatta does not understand. Charudatta’s driver Sthavarak is
driving Charudatta’s driver
Vasantsena explains him everyVardhamanak leaves as he had
thing and also informs him that
Sharvilak is actually Mahamatya forgotten to get a cushion.
Shakar’s driver Sthavarak is
Shalankayan’s son. Charudatta
driving his bullock cart and parks
tries to woe her but Vasantsena
says that there must be a civil
it infront of Charudatta’s house
revolt in Ujjaini as how can one
to see what commotion is haptalk of love here where women
pening on the road.
face the constant danger of being Vasantsena sits in Shakar’s
assaulted victimised. Charudatta bullock cart thinking it to
is also converted and on receivCharudatta’s. In the meantime
ing Sharvilak’s message departs.
there follows an announcement
that Aryaka escaped.
SCENE 13
Madanika disguised as a male
Sharvilak is depressed at his
enters with Aryaka whom she
failure to free Aryaka from
has freed with the help of the
Bharati captivity, he tries to kill
Rajmudra. Vardhamanak arrives
himself but is prevented by
and calls out for Vasantsena.
Darduraka. Charudatta arrives.
Madanika hides Aryaka in
Sharvilak is ashamed to meet
Charudatta’s cart. The king’s
Charudatta but he is forgiven for soldiers capture Madanika who "
stealing ornaments. They talk of a says she will reveal only to the
way of freeing Aryaka, Sharvilak ruler Palak.
reveals he has left the Rajmudra
of Palak with Madanika with
SCENE 15
whom he was parted. Madanika
Nandanaka is washing his cheevar
arrives with the Rajmudra and
in Shakar’s pond when Shakar
wants to be with Sharvilak to aid arrives who is a sworn enemy of
him in his mission.
Budh Bhikshus. He runs for his

