THE REPERTORY COMPANY
The Repertory Company of the
National School of Drama is a performing group of players and technicians who have graduated from
the School in the past years.
Formed in 1964 with just four actors the Cornpany was started on
an experimental basis by Shri E.
Alkazi, the Director of the School

till the late 1970’s and a dynamic
theatre personality who had a
major hand in nurturing and expanding the Company over the
years.
In 1977, when the Company
acquired the status of National
Reprotory, Shri Manohar Singh
took over as its Chief and carried

Mahabhoj, Mitro Marjani and more

recently Kafka’s The Trial. In the
past years its repertoire has also
included foreign plays in translations and adaptations. Some ex-

amples: Brecht’s Caucasian Chalk
Circle,. Three Penny Opera and
Puntila and His Man Matti;
Shakespeare’s Othello and
Macbeth; Moliere’s Schoolfor Wives;
Obsorne’s Look Back in Anger;
Bond’s The Pool; Chekhov’s Uncle
Vanya and Cherry Orchard;
Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search

of An Author; Istvan Orkeny’s

Totek; Rostand’s Cyrano de Bergerac,
Goldoni’s The Servant of Two
Masters; Saroyan’s The Cave Dwellits activities across the nation, the ers; and Bernard Shaw’5 Pygmalion .
foundation for which had been
The Company is based in New
laid by Shri E. Alkazi. Since the Delhi, where it gives regular perearly 19708 the Company has pro- formances. It has a Studio Theatre
duced a rich variety of plays that and a beautiful Open-Air Theatre.
range from stylised musicals to The latter is one of the best of its
realistic contemporary works. A kind, situated in natural surroundfew examples: Tughlaq, Andha Yug, ings readily adaptable to different
Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed, Panchvan environments and thus enriching a
Saoar, Rasgandharva, Surya Ki An- different style of productions
tim Kira 71 Se Surya ki Pehli Kiran Tak, which have been staged here.
Charpai, Skandgupt, Sainyan Bhaye
One of the remarkable contriKotwal, Adhe Adhure, Sandhya butions of the Company’s activiChhaya, Iasma Odan, Mattavilas, ties which has given a new dimenKath Ki Gadi, Virasat, Mashriqui sion and opened a new avenue for
Hoor, Main Ladli Maina Teri Pagla the Indian theatre is the use of hisGhoda, etc.
torical monuments and ruins like
The Repertory has worked with Pinjor Garden, Chandigarh Foroz—
a variety of directors from India eshah Kotla, Talkatora Garden and
and abroad. Besides using the best Purana Quila and Delhi for its
available scripts the Company has landmark productions like Andha
also successfully dramatised and Yug, Tughlaq, Sultan Razia, etc.
produced a few novels and short
Apart from performing in Delhi
stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekan t, the Company undertakes extenBegum Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri, sive tours to different parts of India

