About the Book
In the fifty six years since it was written, the diary of Anne Frank has taken

on a kind of mystical quality for the adolescents who first encounter it and
the adults left with its spiritual aftertaste. I read the diary first when I was
twelve and reread it just last week. Its power is so enormous that, looking at

the pictures of the actual diary, with its plaid cover and impotent little lock,
a shiver took hold of me as though the thing was a relic, as indeed it is.
Now wife and mother, even—keeled and middle-aged, all those things that

Anne never had a chance to be, I cannot read it without feeling the pall,
the enormous tragedy that hangs over the entire enterprise, whose essence
is contained unadorned in the final sentence of the epilogue: ”In March
1945, two months before the liberation of Holland, Anne died in the

concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen.”

And yet mortality is not what younger readers recognize when they read
the diary. Quite the contrary: Anne’s odyssey of self-interrogation within
the claustrophobic confines of the Secret Annex becomes an extraordinary
metaphor for life, in particular for the life of the adolescent, bursting to be
free while trapped in a close net of family, friends, and constant scrutiny,
real and imagined. Any thirteen-year—old can instantly understand Anne’s
feelings in the first few pages, when she says she will call her diary Kitty
because she really has no bosom friend— ”just fun and joking, nothing
more. ”
From time to time she talks about the horrors beyond her window, but

most of the diary is about the turmoil within her growing heart. Cooped
up, misunderstood, she is every teenager when she bursts out, halfway
through her time in hiding, ”Would anyone, either Jew or non-Jew,

understand this about me, that I am simply a young girl badly in need of
some rollicking fun?”
by Anna Quidlen
About the Production
As my last production in this century, I decided to pick one of the key issues
of the twentieth century : the extermination of 6 million Jews by the Nazis.
Nothing could be more poignant than the diary of Anne Frank, the 13 year
old through whose story we can only begin to imagine the deep personal
loss of so many. Another reason for my choice of Anne Frank was that it
was the perfect vehicle to train up a new set of ten actors, as it is an
’ensemble’ play and has, as many of its leads, young people. It was a
tremendous challenge for the young cast to enter this situation emotionally,
and we used improvisation, reading and research — and drawing on their
experience of ’living through’ the engineered violence against the Sikhs in
1984, to do so. One can only hope that in the next century, now only days
away, mankind will be able to go beyond the persecution of any community
in any part of the world.
Feisal Alkazi

