The first concentration camps were built in Gerrrnany soon after Hitler came

to power in 1933. Here all those opposed to Hitler — political adversaries,
members of the Resistance, people considered inferior (gypsies, blacks,
homosexuals, handicapped people and Jews) by the Nazis — were
”concentrated” in highly fortified camps. The Nazis declared that the German

people were a super—race and that there was no place in their empire for
people they considered inferior.
In January 1942, the leadership of the Nazi Party decided to murder more
than 11 million Jews then in Europe. To this end, they built extermination

camps, specially designed for the fast and efficient execution of millions. The
death camps were all run by the ”Death’s Head” 5.5., so called for the skull

insignia on their caps and their talent for torture and cruelty. These camps
were built in total secrecy in isolated areas of Poland: No one was to know
the real reason the Jews were deported here. The Nazis claimed that the Jews
were simply being taken to work camps in Poland. Most people believed the
lie.
Trains from every European country under German occupation went back
and forth to Poland carrying Jews crowded together in cattle cars. The journey
could take days, with nothing given to the prisoners to eat or drink, and no
word said about what was to become of them. Most trains went straight to
the death camps. Most people were murdered in the gas chambers a few
hours after arriving, their bodies then burned in huge incinerators. For a
while the Nazis spared those people they thought they could use. Yet even
these strong young men and women had to work so incredibly hard for the
Germans, under such wretched conditions, that most died within a few weeks.

A few very lucky ones were still alive when the Allied Forces liberated the
camps in 1945, like Otto Frank. Altogether, 6 million Jews were murdered

by the Nazis.

In Dec ‘99 Ruchika presents at India Habitat Centre
11, 12 Dec

Rekhakriti

19, 20 Dec

The Diary of Anne Frank

23, 24 Dec

The Emperor’s Very New Clothes

All productions directed by FEISAL ALKAZI

