THE LESSON
By Eugene Ionesco.

Summary of the play
A student goes to a professor’s house for tuitions. During the lesson, the professor gets
excited, irritated and ﬁnally kills his pupil. At the end of the play, the maid says to
the professor, “Sir, come down please, your pupil has arrived...”

The knife that rapes and the word that kills
Eugéne IoneSCO was born in Rumania in 1912. At a very young age, he was exposed to
the ravages of war. “I am eight years old, it is evening. My mother is holding my
hand, it is the rue Blomet (Paris) after a bombardment. We live in the ruins”
(“Victims of Duty”) At eight years of age, he was already acquainted with nightmares.
“In my memory, the grotesque apparitions resembled characters out of Brughels or
Bosch—huge noses. deformed bodies, terrifying smiles and cleft feet.” (Spring 1939).
All his plays exploit the themes of death, sin and the absurdity of life. His theatre
could be termed nihilistic since it does not carry any “message”. He describes the world
in all its absurdity. This leads him to attack the very base of our society, the essential
characteristic of man, language.
“The tragedy of language” (“Notes and counter notes”)
is fully described in his ﬁrst play, “La Cantatrice Chauve”, where language is ripped to
shreds and degenerates into a string of incoherent words,

In “The Lesson”, however, language has an ulterior motive; it is an instrument of
oppression and helps one to dominate one’s fellow beings. Such domination is almost
always accompanied by the total annihilation of the personality of the individual so
dominated. What could be more surprising, then, that Ionesco should have chosen as
characters, a professor, whose profession is to teach, therefore to speak and to indoctrinate and a student whose duty it is to listen and, thus, to submit. It would, however, be
superﬁcial to view “The Lesson” as a parody on traditional teaching methods, or as a
stray case of one individual
dominating another or even a
feudal
society
oppressing its members.
“Brainwashing” or intellectual rape which coutinues to be the favourite theme of
Ionesco’s plays, takes on the dimensions of'vampirism in the lesson. In the play, we
witness not Only the meeting of the vampire and one of its victims, but also the victim’s
total destruction which leaves her inert and drained of all vital
Dracula’s instrument of power is language.

substance.

This

