M A CB E TT
by E uटुडे n 6: Ion esco

“Oh look here is a person who doesn’t know how to write Macbett”.

Such was the ins-

tantaneous reaction of all those who saw it even though it said below “by Ionesco”. Only
the more courageous ventured to correct it.
One can after all, ask that, by whether replacing “h” by “t” and by modifying the spell.
ing of certain words has Ionesco actually written a very original work ? Is it really all that
different from Macbeth ? “Macbett” is a comical play and a sad one. More than that
it is a desperate one, with a genius all its own. Ionesco has structured his parody as a
tragedy. Without any doubt it is his most notorious play and the most humorous one.

We see it all—lust for power, series of heartaches and death which is the ﬁnale of everything and which the spectators guess right from the beginning. The author reviews all
the manifestations of power and all the men who exercise it as he sees it, there are only
Macbetts in this life who wait in ambush to plunge a knife in the backs of their fellowcreatures to take their place.
Thus Shakespeare’s Malcolm—the saviour becomes Macol, who according to his own
words has no wish to possess “the king becoming graces such as justice, verity ..,

I have no relish of them; but abound in the division of each several crime, acting
it many ways”.

He further

declares “It is myself I mean, in whom I know all the

particulars of vice so grafted, that when they shall be opened, Black Macbett will
seem as pure as snow”.
Krishna.

After this we could negate the bliss promised by

Rama

and

Macbett will the n be a play in which crime shall be perpetually repeated, more के than
that it will be so common place that one gets acclamatized, and worse, one would abet
it by the laughter that it provokes. As in Macbeth here too, it is a woman who
prompts the murder. The genius of this creation however lies in the metamorphosis of
Lady Duncan (or Lady Macbett) into a “charming” witch. As a catalyser in a chemical
reaction her presence is evident in the entire play (even in her absence) culminating
in her disappearance. Who is she ? The symbol of our base instincts? She engenders
an atmosphere of movement, analogous to the rapidity of ideas that ﬂash through
our mind. A rapidity that will overthrow the “heroes” and drive them into the
trap of “Pére Ubu”. All this forms the most explosive mixture possible.

—K . M AD A V A N E

