UBU ROI

3:३३" an:

B y Alfred J arry

:3

The Avant-garde theatre of the 20th century keeps as one of its reference points the
explosive “generale” of UBU ROI performed in 1896. Alfred Jarry now regarded as
the father of modern “theatre of the absurd” exploited ingredients that are commonConventional theatre emphasizes the unities of time and place and of
place today,
language as a real means of communication. In the “theatre of the absured” language
is not an adequate instrument for the expression of the deepest levels of meaning. It is
replaced by “Pure theatre” i.e. abstract scenic effects, mime, juggling and acrobatics.
Also by clowning fooling and mad scenes, Language itself is replaced by verbal nonsense
with elements of dream and fantasy which often have a strong allegorical component.

Thus in Genets use of ritual and pure stylized action, in the music hall routines of
“Waiting for Godot”, in Tradieu’s attempts to create theatre from movement and sound
alone and in the ballets and mime-plays of Ionesco and Beckett we ﬁnd_a return to earlier
non-verbal forms of communication.

the
Alfred Jarry ( I 873- I 907) is one of the most extraordinary and eccentric ﬁgures among
example
an
was
he
Wilde
Oscar
than
more
“Poétes Maudits” of French literature. Even
merge
of life following art. One of those bizarre specimens of “Paris bohéme” who
of
characters
their lives and their poetry by turning their personalities into grotesque
drink
their own creation. He dressed in a Cyclists costume around with pistols, practiced

(absinthe) as a discipline, ate ﬁsh he caught at will anywhere in the Seine and became
the theoreticien of “Pataphysics” which he deﬁned as the “Science of imaginary solutions,
to
which symbolically attributes the properties of objects, described by their virtuality
t he i r l i 1 teame n ts , ’ ’

n character
“Ubu is a savage caricature of a stupid, selﬁsh bourgeois. But this rabelasia
is a terriHe
satire.
with his falstaﬂian greed and cowardice is more than mere social
Ubu makes
fying image of the animal nature of man, his cruelty and his ruthlessness.
chased out
himself king of Poland, kills and tortures friends and enemies, and is ﬁnally
that appeared
of the country. He is mean, vulgar and incredibly brutal, a monster
reality by 1945”.
ludicrously exagerrated in 1896 but was far surpassed by

of
Jarry consciously intended his play to confront a bourgeois audience with the horror
its own complacency and ugliness.

The public on that memorable evening of December

10th 1896 was indeed stupeﬁed.

As soon as the Opening line “Merdre” was uttered

the storm broke loose. It took 15 minutes to restore order.
this ﬁrst performance said “After us the Savage God.”

Yeats who was present at

for food or
rI‘he only logic of Ubu’s personality are his primitive instincts GREED—
ICE—his
treasure symbolized by his disproportionate stomach FEAR and COVVARD

