312.1990

TI MU R
H ind i
Written by RAKESH

_

Produced by l PTA, LUCKNOW

Directed by SURYAMOHAN KULSHRESTHA
SYN OP SI S

The play is knitted around the events of resistance
offered by peaceful farmers and citizens of tyrant Timur during
his Indian campaign. After conquering and establishing his

reign of terror in Southern Russia, Iran, Afganistan and India
upto Delhi, Timur planned to plunder the area between

Himalayas and Shivalikas. Timur took the route through
Meerut. The farmers and citizens of Meerut led by a Sufi and
king of Meerut decided to resist him and they campaigned
against him throughout the area. The villagers had no arms to
fight the equipped army of Timur but they decided to teach him
by self destruction. They deserted the villages after intoxicating
the water tanks and putting fire to their belongings. Timur lost
many Soldiers, horses and cattle and had to flee away due to stiff
resistance. He was also confronted at the thought level by the
Sufi whom he killed in outrage. Timur’s own men deserted him
and he felt badl isolated humiliated and self condemned. The
haunting broug t to him dreadful dreams. Eventually he left
terrorized and apologetic.
No tyrant can face people’s movement, is the lesson,this
eventful battle gives. It is also established through the events that

the basic fibre of real religion is love and unity not violence and
hatred.
DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Fundamentalism, terrorism and violence in the name of

religion are threatening the national unity and integrity today.
Such threats can only be met with united movement of eople.
The play ‘TIMUR’ unfolds this on the basis of historica events
around Timur’s invasion in India. The play has been designed
to suit its )resentation even at such places where there are no
basic facillties of lights, auditorium etc.
CAST AND CREDITS
Timur-MPDas Khokhan, Sufi-Ashwini Srivastava
Makkhan, Pandit Ji-Hare Krishna Arora Hallo Bhaiya,

Thaneshwari Trader Of Delhi- Swadesh Bandhu, Veerpal—
Rarnesh Sharma, Padmini-Veda Rakesh, Mansoor Khan-Ashok

Singh, Saifuddin/Soldier 1/Villager S-Azia Afzal Khan, Shamsoddin-Sanjai Mishra, Sikander’s Mother-Mridula Bhardwaj,
Sikander-Sunil, Hairat Khan-O.P.Awasthi, Gairat Khan- Dadhi

Ram, Sepahsalar-Sukhendu Mandal, Khalil/Villager-l-Sayyed
Laraib, Rasool Khan/Soldier3—Chandra Shekhar Chaturvedi,

Ghanshyam- Sanjeev Bhattacharya, Durgadas Brijpal-Jayant
Munshi, Sewak Ram- Arun Shekhar, Nankoo-Shatrughan Shar-

rna, Villager3-Vinay Singh Chauhan, VillagerG-Atam Jit Singh,
Villager 7-Mukhtar Ahmed, Soldier Z—Ram Kurnar Yadav, Villager Z-Rakesh, Soldier 4-Rajendra Kurnar Tewari.
SURYA MOHAN KULSHRESHTHA(b. 1953)
Employed in the administrative wing of Life Insurance
Corporation of India, Sh. Kulshreshtha possesses degrees of
B.SC. LL.B.Trained in theatre arts, from Bharatendu Academy
of Dramatic Arts(BADA), Lucknow in the year 1976-77, he has

specialised in direction. He attended Workshops and has been
associated with theatre groups like IPTA and MEGHDOOT.
He directed 30 full length plays, 10 short plays and 6 street plays.

