2092.1990

BHUM _CHU

Bhutia
Written by LHA TSHERING
Produced by SIKKIM TRIBAL YOUTH ASSOCIATION,
GANGTOK

Directed by Mr. SONAM GYATSO
SYNOPSIS

This play is based on the legend of Bhum-Chu an annual
festival held in South Sikkim. Due to the secrecy of practice of
the puja connected with the festival of Bhum-Chu,the common

people have no knowledge of the historical background of the
festival. The Play is an effort towards unveiling this historical
background o the festival to the public. Since Sikkiam does not
have any particular style of drama except for the Opera style of
Tibetan drama which has not been accepted by the common
peo )le due to the difﬁculty in understanding the play; this play
has een done in a simple folk style with minimum of action and
simple language so that all can understand it. The play has been
divided into five scenes representing the different ages of history
through which the story passes. The background is common for
all the scenes and the props of the pla are minimum. Due to
the limitation placed on the number 0 participants, the group
had to resort to recorded background music instead of involving
musicians.
DIRECTOR’S NOTE
This play is based on Bhum-Chu festival of South Sikkim. In order to bring to the people, the historical background
of this festival, this drama is being staged in a simple folk style so
that the common people may understand the importance of the
festival.
CAST AND CREDIT
Sonam Pintso-Zenga, Sonam Gyatso-Trisong Detsen &

Kartok Chempo, Chezong Bhutia-Guru Padmasathva, Karma
Dima- Khando Yebbey Csogyal, Sammup Tashi-Lhasey Murung
Esernpo, Tashi Dadul-Verechona, Chewang Rinzin -Guru Tahsarnchen, Karma Samphel- Guru Garwang Rinzmg Langpa,
Nakshu Bhutia-Nagadah Chempo, Loday Zangpo-Tersung &
Men Thekong solong, Pema Wangyal-Labour, Kunzang BhutiaLame, Choda Benzongpa-Sick Man, Tashi Tshering-Lhat Sam
Cempo, Karma Sonam-Minister, Sonam Gyatso DokhampaPintso Nakgyal, Hissel Doma Lopcha—Queen, Tashi-ThendupDancer, Sonam- Chenzor-Dancer, Ugen Gyatso-Dancer &
Damchen Dorjee, Tashi Tsewant-Dancer, Kelsang ChodenDancer, Tashi Lhamu-Dancer, Karma Mechung—Dancer, Dor—

jee Uden-Dancer.
SHRI SONAM GYATSO
Shri Sonam Gyatso is an Acharya of Buddhist studies
and a research scholar of high calibre. He is a very proﬁcient
writer of dramas, stories plays and poems. He has a vast experience in staging plays and dances and he is also a keen
innovator in the field of drama and dances.

