.
.

LEKHA BE] DA
Dogri
INDER KHAJURIA
NAR
Sh.
Late
Written by
Produced by IPTA, JAMMU
Adapted and Directed by DEEPAK KUMAR

21.12.1990

SYNOPSIS

To perform the last rites of her husband, young Bhagan
enters into an illicit relationship with another man. The child
that Bhagan would bear out of the relationship would repay the
loan, paid by the money lender Bajia for performance of last
rites.

Ironically Bhagan suffers in desecration on conceiving
Murku. Murku is born with a loan against his name in Bajia’s
led er. Bhagan is threatened by Patwari who wants her pound
of gesh. Even before Murku breathes in fresh air, evil money
lender snatches Bhagan’s cow and her new born calf in lieu of
interest. Both Murku and Kulbhushan (Bajia’s elder son) grow:
Murku as a slave and Kulbhushan as a candidate for the
forthcoming polls. Kulbhushan approaches ailing Bhagan for
her vote which she ultimately fails to cast. Bhagan bids adieu to
her body on the polling day. Murku is obliged to seek fresh loan
from the money lender for the performance of the last rites of
his mother and the vicious circle goes on.
The play is set in thirteen distinct scenes.
DIRECTOR’S NOTE

The play has been conceived in BHAGAN-the dying
folk theatre form of Jarnrnu. The revival is not to recreate its
vulgarity but to put in a test while dealin with modern socioeconomic and political contents. The patﬁetic tale of our helpless villagers has been recreated for stage. An effort has been
made to use the modern theatre techniques blended with folk
theatre.
CAST AND CREDIT

Rohlu-Arvind Anand, thtak—Madan Rangila, BajiaRaj Singh, Patwari—Suresh Sharma, Saneeto-Gangesh Bharti,

Bhagan-Rajni Dogra, Murku-Surindcr Sharrna, Mantri-Anil Raj
Chopra, Kulabhushan-Vijay Kumar, Workers-Randhir Dev
Singh, Parvin Sharma, Jananiyan-Tilotma Jarnwal, Chanda Sharrna, Sirnrni Gupta, Saroj Sharma, Mard-Vishal Gupta, Koushal
Sharma, Mohan Singh, Vijay Kumar, Gayak Tola-Bishan Dass,

Chajju Ram, Krishna Kurnari, Neelarn Thapa,Om Parkash,
Makholi Ram, Kishan Lal, Sajiay Dhol/Dholak-Chiran Jee, Bansari-Rakesh Kumar, Harmonium-Harish Kaila, NarisinghaBishan Dass, Chimta/Thali-Makholi Ram/Krishan Lal, Credits:

Songs Compositions-Dogri Folk, Music-Harish Kaila, Lights-Jai
Ram Sharrna, Sets-Raj Singh, Madan Rangila, CostumesMohan Singh, Property-Vijay Kumar, Make up-Kamal Sharma,
Asstt:Dir.-Raj Singh, Group Manager-Raman Kesar,
SHRI DEEPAK KUMAR (b. 1962)
A science graduate in Agriculture, Deepak Kurnar has
worked in 30 plays as an actor and in 6 plays as a back stage
worker since 1976. He has received Best Actor prizes at the
festivals of State Akaderni and other occasions. He has directed
about two dozen plays, organized and attended a number of
workshop and has three years Research work on Folk Theatre
of Jammu Region.

