22.12.1990

DU LLA BHATTI
Panj abi
Written by KANWAL VIDROHI
Produced by LOK KALA MANCH-CHANDIGARH
Directed by KANWAL VIDROHI

SYN0PS I S
Dulla Bhatti is known as the hero of the history ofold Punjab due to
his and his forefather’s sacrifices fer the masses. It is said that the birth-time
of Dulla and IIaidri son of the great Mughal emperor Akbar was the same.
According to the forecast Haidri was brought up by Ladhi(mother of Dulla)
inspite of her enimity with Akbar. In a competition in martial art in the court of
Akbar, Haidri lost his position by one point. Akbar accused Ladhi of being a
stepmother. She felt insulted and marched out of the darbar of the king. All
this happened in the presence of Dulla Bhatti who decided to take the revenge.
Ladhi returned to her village with her son. Dulla supported the downtrodden
and became the leader of the masses. On the other hand Haidri fell in love with
a court dancer and became a dead drunkard. Masses were provoked to revolt

under the leadership of Dulla. One day he was arrested by Mughal soldiers and
crucified. His death and state exploitation compelled people to unite to save
their rights and respect. Because Dulla lived and died for the masses fighting
for the sake of all castes and creeds. Therefore everybody in Punjab remembers
him as a hero and sings songs in his memory.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
If there is a beautiful script having multi locations/historical Backgound/enlarger caste and the group is equipped with limited resources as well
as creative/theatrical/professional cormmttment, should we drop the script ?
‘No’ we must choose it and to produce it with the help of our own
heritage i.e. traditional theatre.
Should we adapt and utilise the traditional style of production as it

was under the time span hundreds years ago ?
‘No’, we must have some creative timely required changes by using
the basic elements of traditional theatre.

In the production of play ‘Dulla Bhatti’ ‘Saal’ a traditional Punjabi
style has been used.

CAST AN D C RE D ITS
Actors
Kanwal Vidarohi, Sukhbir Kaur, Amrik 'I‘eja, Vibha Hundal,
Raj inder Gill, Navrang Naag, Mr. Dardi, Kikkar Singh, Ansh u , Monty, Ravi nder
Ravi, Neelima Bisht, Hardip.

S i n ge rs
Bhupinder, Surinder, Satpal Suri, Gurdip Bhullar, Lakshvindcr,
Subhash Goel, Mangat Ram, Usha Bhatti, Madhu Sharda.
Mu s ic ia n5
Mali Ram, Ustad Amir Ahmad Khan, Randhir Dhira, Mundri Ia],
Jarnail Singh and Ramesh Chand.

Dancers
Ra khwinder Singh , Varinde r Singh , Amritpal Singh , .Iatinde r Si ngh ,
Mahabir Singh, Manjit Singh, DalerSingh, I'lardeepSingh.

SI‘I. KANWAL VIDROHI (b.1953)
MA in Dramatics and rcseaich scholar on topic"Elements of Indian
Theatre in the Theatre of West " , Sh. Vidhrohi won so many honours and awards

as director. He attended national and international seminars, workshops and
conferences as delegate aswell as coordinator. I Ie has translated/adapted about
16 novels/stories and written 6 plays. He has acted in telefilms and has directed
many telcfilms. IIc has also edited magazines devoted to art of theatre.

