Kaido spreads the scandal. Village women taunt Malki and ask her to keep Heer
locked up in a cellar so that she may not have a bad inﬂuence on their children.
Heer, ignorant of all that had happened returns home in a playful mood. Mother,
borlmg With rage, abuses and threatens her. But even her pleading has no effect and Heer is
adamant.
Chuchak, Heer‘s father, feels helpless.

An offer for Heers hand comes from the

Kheras of Rangpur. Kaido takes Malki and Chuchak for consultations with other relatives.
The whole village knows the story.

Heer‘s friends bring message from Ranjha. Heer

meets Ranjha in the fields and she wants him to take her away. Ranjha wavers and in the
midst of this, appears Heer‘s father with her uncle and drags Heer away to his house.

ACT 11

There is a lot of gaity in preparation of Heer‘s marriage to Saida of Rangpur. The
mother has prepared the bridal veil. Relations come and congratulate Heer's mother. Heer‘s
friends sing the usual marriage songs.
On this scene ofjoy and gaiety enters Heer laden with grief and sorrow and pleads with
her mother to save her from this living death.
The arrival of the bridegroom‘s party. Kaido brings the priest for the marriage
ceremony. Heer most vehemently denies the marriage bond which is being thrust upon her.
In spite of her denial Heer is forced into the marriage bond through the clever manipulation of Kaido, her uncle.

songs.

The time has come for Heer to leave the parental house. The women sing farewell
Heer appeals pathetically to her father and asks him not to send her away.

ACT 1 l l
Rangpur—the village of Heer‘s in-laws.

Women sing of their beloveds.

There is a general atmosphere of gaiety.

Heer is in anguish.

Sehati, her sister-law, consoles her.

Ranjha in the garb of an ascetic comes to the village.
unhapiness and request him to visit her house to bless her.

Women tell him of Heer‘s

Ranjha calls out to Heer by her name. Sehati, the sister-in—law, is angry with the
ascetic. The two lovers recognise each other: but, Saihti throws him out of the. house and
in return is cursed by him.
Heer tells the whole story to Saihti.

At ﬁrst, Sehati refuses to help but when Heer

pleads in the name of Murad, Saihti‘s lover, she relents.

A plot is hatched.

