Heer‘s mother-in-law is sad because her son is not happy. Sehati persuades her mother

to allow Heer to go out into the ﬁelds.

The mother agrees.

Sehati rushes in to inform her parents that Heer had been bitten by a snake.
bitten Heer is brought into the house.

Snake

A snake charmer is brought in but he can do nothing.
The voice of the ascetic is heard outside and Aju, Heer‘s father-in-law rcquests him

to treat Heer.

The ascetic agrees on the condition that no one but an unmarried girl remain

with them.

Heer and Ranjha plan to elope.

Heer bids farewell to Sehati.

Voices are heard outside crying that Heer has been seen running away. Anxious
parents come out of the house to discover the empty bed.
People rush out to catch the
runaways.

A CT I V

Malki, Heer‘s mother, is anxious about her daughter.
Heer since her marriage.

There has been no news of

A new attendent tells Malki and Chuchak that on the river bank he had seen a tall
woman tell the girls how someone called Heer had run away with Ranjha, the lovers had been
caught and tried. But the Prince had released the lovers and arrested the Kheras instead.
The parents immediately recognise the woman as no one else but their own Heer. They
prepare to go to fetch her.

Heer enters her parents” house with her friends. She complains to her mother for
having forgotten her daughter. The parents promise to marry her to Ranjha.
Kaido, once
again, plays the villain. Heer‘s father-in-law sends a messenger asking for
Heer‘s return. The
request is turned down and the messenger returns threatening them
of dire consequences.
Kaido dictates a letter to his brother and forces him to agree to
send Heer back after a month.
The women taunt Malki about Heer’s love aﬂair.

Kaido excites the people who come to Chuchak’s house
and demand Heer’s expulsion.

A challenge is thrown to Chuchak.

Kaido suggests that to poison Heer would be better than
to see her dishonoured.
Mother poisons the daughter.

‘All my eﬂbrts to get you, O Ranjha! have been in
vain.
relations & the Kazi have killed me.
spirit as. '

My parents, brothers,

And there comes an end to our love,’

Cries Beer‘s

