pain. He had already had two heart attacks. Last couple of
days, he had also had some fever. "
Mr Himanshu, who has played the lead role in most
ofhis uncle's operas including the latest one "Amir Khusro",
said: "He was ocean and, though I tried really hard, I could
never learn all that he could teach me. His contribution to
the propagation of Uttarakhandi folk art is unparalleled."
His friend and theatre personality Satish Sehgal
added: “There was another fact to Prof. Upreti. He was a
card-carrying communist till as late as 1968 when the
Communists in India split up. He was jailed in 1962 at the
time of the Chinese invasion. But ideology aside, he was a
man devoted to music and theatre. Even till the end, he
gave his all to his art."
Many of his friends, however, felt that despite
receiving several state and national awards, Prof. Upreti
never got his fair deal. Mr. Sehgal said: ‘ ‘Look at his house
in ldgah. He has died a pauper. He could have become
anything ranging from a professor, in economics or politics
to a music composer in the ﬁlm industry or even a Minister
in the Uttar Pradesh Government. However, he always
stuck to his resolve to serve music. He was a very serious
person. He was always srnilling and never lost his cool.
Men like him very hard to ﬁnd."
HIND US TAN TIMES
8 June 1997

MOHAN UPRETI GAVE
A NEW IDENTITY TO
THE ART OF HILLS

story that has resounded through the hills since the 13th

century. Charmed with the musicality of the balad, Upreti
formed the Lok Kalakar Sangh, which helped spread the
art of the hills even as it heralded cultural renaissance in
the region. .
In 1962, in the the wake of the war with China, Upreti
was forced to leave Almora. Coming to Delhi, he formed
the Parvatiya Kala Kendra in 1 96 8 , with a view to
promoting the folk forms of Uttarakhand. He would adapt
the fok dances and songs of the region to the requirements
of contemporary. stage, and this resulted in various
choreographic compositions. Under his direction, these
shows were presented in various Indian cities as well as
abroad.
Another phase in his career started with his effort to
create an indigenous theatre which could encompass the
entire gamut of the life of the hill people and deepen their
aesthetic sensibility and awareness. At the same time, these
productions introduced the urban audiences to new sources
of spiritual regeneration and enrichment.
In collaboration with writer B . L. Shah, Upreti started
staging ballads. Rajula Malushahi was the first attempt
which was directed by B.M. Shah. Among these ballads
are Ajwa Bafaul, Mahabharat, Rasik Ramol, Jitu Bagadwal,
Hill Jatra and Bhana Gangnath. His recent work, Amir
Khusro in Urdu was a remarkable success. He has also
given an innovative form to Kumaoni Ram Lila which was.
termed "the longest opera in the world" by a French critic.
A soft spoken rna‘n, Upreti was associate professor at
the National School of Drama. His friendly nature and his
music had endered him to the masses of the hill, who
lovingly call him 'Mohanda.‘
Today Mohanda is no more, but his music remains.

NEW DELHI : Mohan Upreti, the theatre personality who
died here on Friday night, had give the arts of the hills a
new cultural identity in tune with the contemporary
sensibilities. It was through his creative endeavour that the
rich and varied folk tunes ofUttarakhand found expression
on the modern stage as operas.
A post graduate in political diplomacy from
Allahabad university, and a caste Brahrnin, Upreti decided
in late '405 to go back to his roots and work as a cultural
activist. Inspired by the late P. C. Joshi, his creative world
was inﬂuenced by Marxism. In the late '50s he came in
contact with the famous folk bard of Kurnaon, Mohan
Singh, and heard Rajula Malushahi, the evergreen love

D. S. Bajeli
TIMES OF INDIA
8, June 1997

मोहन उप्रेती के निधन से पर्वतीय

संस्कृति का ध्वजवाहक बिछुड़ा
अल्मोंड़ा 7 जूना सदाबहार कुमाऊँनी गीत "बेडू पाके बारो
मासा" की पुन बनाने वाले अन्तर्राड्रीय ख्याति प्राप्त रंगकर्मी मोहन
उप्रेती के निधन से पर्वतीय अंचल की संस्कृति का ध्वज वाहक सदा के
लिए बिछुड़ गया है। उन्होंनै कुमाऊं अंचल की "राजुला मात्राओं ’
"रसिक रमौल' है ' 'गंगानाथ' है ' 'भोलानाथ' ' ' 'वालागोरिया' है लोकंगाथाओँ

