I just come back from Mussoorie and came to know about the sad demise of

Mr. Mohan Upreti. May his soul rest in peace.
On behalf of Natya Ballet Centre and myself. I send my heart-felt condolences
on his bereavement. May God give you the strength to bear this irreparable loss.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
MS Rupa Lal Chairperson
Natya Ballet Centre, New Delhi

While in Lucknow, I heard about the sad demise of Mohan-j i . In course of

my very long association with the National school of Drama and also in various
theatre-contexts. I had time and come across this wonderful person who was both
as a person and a theatre and music exponent so very inspiring. I, and many in the
Indian theatre scene, have lost a mentor, a wise and humane person who always
gave us something.

May god give you the courage to live without him. I also fervently hope that
Paravatya Kala Kendra would not stop its woderful wOrk. May it go on doing its
wonderful work and keep aloft the ideals which Mohan Upretti-j i stood for.

With heart-felt condolences and deep sympaties.
Rudra Sen Gupta
Director, Nandikar
Calcutta

I was shocked to know of the sudden demise of Mohanj i . It was recently that
I. met him and talked a great deal abbut a worthwhile recording, he had done at
Nainital for IGNCA during my tenure there. I was amazed to ﬁnd that he was ever
smiling despite so many odds that punctuated his life from time to time. He gave

music to a few CPC productions earlier, and everytime he created something
refreshing. He was very warm to one and all who-so-ever came in contact with
him. His leaving us thus is a very personal loss to me, as to thousands of his other

friends and fans.

I have no words to express to console you. But, it is a fact of life and you
have to endure it. May God give you strength to bear his unfortunate separation
for all the time now onwards and to sustain you for continuing the creative work
that he was actively involved in.

Gopal Saksena
Director
Common Wealth Educational Media Centre for Asia
New Delhi

