of mohan upreti
g in an
Even at this distance of New York, sittin
Centre,
ln
Linco
the
ite
apartment of Broadway, right oppos
t the
forge
t
where I am an intern for a brief period, I canno
city, to
great Mohan Upreti. I call (long distance) my ﬁrst
i, has
get this (bad) news-that a father-ﬁgure, Mohan Upret
passed away. He was a great man.

a cultural
maker, I would go to a factory, not come to serve
institution." Sumitra C. believed him at face value and since
and take.
then started a long association of mutual give
His association with the Kendra beneﬁted mutully.

The SBKK needed his artistic input and he, a stable base.
He helped the Kendra mount the Shankarlal Festival, the

What makes great - anything? It is a sense of integrity,
an iota of impeccable artistic credentials and a human being
far above any other. Mohan Upreti represented all this and

mi
Holi Mela, the Kamani Auditorium, the Basant Pancha
event.
ble
memora
a
celebrations and many

more .

his expertise in folk and operatic traditions and thus began

He was a father ﬁgure, largely uncelebrated, of the
theatre, music and dance world, in that order. Born on July
6, 1928 (hence this prioritisation over all else from New
York, where much else happens all the time), Mohan Upreti
was destined for a national role, even if he came from a

a long creative association resulting in over 50 full length
productions. His association with the NSD spanned some
30 years or more .

humble Kumaon stock.
Why humble? (The word humble has been used,
misused and abused because of that Kannada character,
remember Deve Gowda?)
Because, Kumaon, for long, was that neglected belt
from which, despite the Pant, Pandit and Pandey
connection, little else sprouted. Until Mohan Upreti
happened.
Mohan Upreti happened, as do many historical
ﬁgures. He learnt classical music under Pandit C.S. Pant
and Pandit V.S. Thakur. At the Allahabad University, he
underwent advanced training in music and founded the Lok
Kalakar Sangh in Almora. He got deeply immersed in the
folk traditions of the region and created several dancedramas, theatrical productions and mimes. His artistic
pursuits brought him to Delhi several times and he served
the Jamia Millia Islamia as a Professor of Music in 1991-

The National School of Drama (NSD) requisitioned

In 1968, he formed the Parvatiya Kala Kendra (the
Centre for Mountain Culture, loosely translated) and
focussed his energies on the collective talents of immigrants
from Garhwal who settled in Delhi. To date the group has
done several productions on the tales and myths, lores and
legends of the region.
In his passing away last month, the world of theatre,

opera, music and dance has truly lost a star. For Moha’n
Upreti was extremely modest, low—key and understated.

He was an intellectual artist who kept to himself, worked
quietly and instilled a lot of camaraderie in others. His
Parvatiya Kala Kendra consists of ordinary folks who have

blossomed into substantial talents. He gave the Garhwalls
and other assorted folks settled in Delhi, a sense ofpurpose
and a cause for celebration. In his demise, they work and
fortunately in his talented wife, Naim a Devi there is a base,
a rallying point as it were. His equally prodigious brother,
Bhagwat Upreti is the musical soul of most productions
and with likeminded, kindred spirits Mohan Upreti's name
can live on.

92.
Ashish Khokar

It was his coming to Delhi, the first city, that
established him nationally. He ﬁrst served the Shriram
Bharatiya Kala Kendra way back in 1964, when he joined
it as a program officer. His joining the Kendra is a piece of
history in itself, for when he came to be interviewed at the
Mata Sundari Lane address of the SBKK, he was asked by
Sumitra Charatram if he, as a communist, would not
create problems. To which he replied: "If was a trouble-

FIRST CITY

July, 1997

