which in that period disallowed choice of vocation and
freedom of self-expression. It is through great inner struggle
that we were able to seek reconciliation between the two
and if we were not shattered by this conflict, it is primarily
because we stood by each other and gave strength and
support to each other.

Our friendship matured into fruitful collaboration as
adults later in several national assignments. I was
priviledged to have Mohan as a colleague when I headed
the Software Planning Committee for Doordarshan
appointed by Govt. of India during the early eighties. Our
Report gained much from his rich cultural experience and
insights and also his political maturity. Later we were
together in a delegation of scientists, creative writers and
artists to the Soviet unior under the auspicious of the IndoSoviet Cultural Festival. Mohan's paper on Indian Folk Art
and Culture was very much appreciated in Moscow. But
what endeared him to his colleagues and also to everyone
with whom he interacted was his capacity to respect others
as much as be respected himself and to easily build bridges
of communication and understanding with others. He was
totally free from ideological intolerance in an era when
ideology was put in high pedestal and partisanship
bordering on fanaticism was the order of the day. Mohan
was truly and wholly an artist and he was above ideology
in the narrow sense of the term, though not free from
ideology as a world-view and an orientating principle for
thought and praxis. In the earlier years of "high ideological
commitment" I remember several occassions when his
intervention helped to soften frayed tempers and to ease
tension through his rich sense of humour and capacity for
laughter. His laughter was very infectious and disarming!
I remember one occasion when our discussion on an issue
said:
had produced great heat and tension. And then Mohan
have
I
that
"Would you kindly listen to this new tune
Mohan
composed ! " When some colleagues protested,
last
his
in
said
had
Bakunin
what
remarked: you know
Only
perish.
will
world
the
of
years: All the ideologies
listen to
Beethoven's Ninth Symphony will last! So please
song.
his
to
me ' ' And, indeed, everyone laughed and listened
That resilience Mohan retained all his life.

by a
I had taken Mohan with me on an invitation

the
parliamentary Sub—Committee which was discussing
any check
issue of how Television was allowing without
harm to
untold
sex, pronography and violence and causing
rs was fully
children. The concern of Committee membe

justified. But they were not willing to distinguish between
artistically permissible depiction of sex and its pornographic
portyal. We were trying to argue with the Committee
members that not all representations of sex, man-woman
relations, and nudity could be treated as pornography and
that the critics should not surrender to prudery and excessive
Puritanism. This will be rejected by our youth today who
are in revolt against the norms of an over-repressed,
conservative society. The Chairperson shot back in
disagreement: "Do you regard the ﬁlm song, Choli Ke
Peeche Kya Hai and the visuals accompanying it as proper
and moral? Isn't that grossly vulgar? "

I didn't know how to respond to that question, though
the vulgarity of this song and the visuals was
unquestionable. At this point Mohan seized the initiative.
He said: "Madam, that is gross vulgarisation of a folk song
which has been popular for centuries. Now listen to me,
please". And then in his melodious and enchanting voice
he sang the folk song :
"Piya kaisejhulaon ras ke b ijana
Patli kalai pei barkat na
Bindiya ke bhar mora matha dukhe
Hansuli ke bhar uthe sar na
Lahnga ke bhar meri kamar dukhe
Choliya k'e bhar dukhlejobna"

The impact of this wornderful folk song and its poetry
was at once electrifying and chastening. The SubCommittee members were completely disarmed and were
asking Mohan to sing one or two more songs. Where our
arguments had failed, Mohan's music had succeeded. After
the song was over, there was warm applause. No further
questions were asked. Members remarked: "Why can't
Doordarshan produce programmes on the basis of such
songs and such poetry which form part of our tradition and
are so full of the joy of life and not at all vulgar". Mohan
had deep faith that where ideology failed, art succeeded;
and where ideology in it perverse form divided, art in its
best form united. That was the faith which sustained him
in pioneering Parvatiya Kala Kendra as the institution
dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the folk
cultural heritage of Uttarakhand in a form suited to the
changing conditions of life and to the requirements of the
modern stage. This was a cultural project which was
profoundly ideological in the deeper sense and totally free
from and above ideology in the narrow sense of the term.
In so far as the cultural project elevated the oppressed
people and their culture from the periphery to the centre, it

