had the potential of preparing their minds and souls for
social liberation and empowerment. And from this point
of view, it performed an ideological function. In so far as
the cultural project enabled the enlightened elements from
the elite to adopt and own the folk cultural heritage and to
refine and refashion it for the modern times, it helped in
the declassing of the elite and in bridging the great cultural
divide between what Gandhi had called "the classes and
the masses" and the gap between what Antonio Gramsci
had called "the national and the popular". This was Mohan's
grand cultural vision and perspective.
Mohan had created ﬁrst the Lok Kalakar Sangh at
Alrnora and later, after he was forced by an order of the
UP. Govt. to leave Alrnora and to shift to Delhi, he had
renamed it as Parvatiya Kala Kendra. These institutions
were created for the objective of promoting a cultural
renewal among the people of Uttarakhand through a process
of elite returning to the roots and thereby creatively
absorbing, assirnilating and developing the folk cultural
heritage.
Mohan believed that the enlightened artists from the
elite could serve as catalysts of this cultural renewal. In his
life-time Mohan had been able to create an institution, to
launch certain artistic productions as pilot experiments, to
create a cultural troupe from amateurs who had the potential
of growing up into full-ﬂedged folk professionals and to
indicate the vast cultural potential of the folk cultural
heritage. He was also contemplating the next step, that of
interpreting his cultural experiments in broader and deeper
theoretical and philosophical terms so as to transform and
elevate Parvatiya Kala Kendra from a centre of performing
folk arts into a School of Folk Arts and Cultures of India
with its base in Uttarakhand. He saw in the political
resurgence of Uttarakhand a favourable setting for giving
a pratical shape to this grand vision.
And this brings me to the Parvatiya Kala Kendra, to
Mohan's colleagues and co-workers of this institution, It
was founded by him and nurtured as only a parent nurtures
his only child, with wholehearted love and affection, singlerninded dedication and attention and with great concern
and anxiety as to how the child (institution) would grow
and evolve. The members of this Parvatiya Kala Kendra
family have not yet fully recovered from the fathornless
sorrow and grief and the leadership void caused by Mohan's
passing away. He was the centre round which the whole
institution and its members had rallied; they were

accustomed to look upto him for inspiration. guidance and
direction at every point, on every issue and on every matter
of policy or the details of its implementation. Even the

personal problems of each members of the troupe were
resolved through his counsel and his imaginative handling.
All of them, old and young, men and women, boys
and girls, from Garhwal and Kumaon, who had shared his
concerns, had also worked hard to give a pratical shape to
his dream. For them it had been a joy to work with him and
under his guidance which no one ever questioned. They
had worked from year to year, from one assignment to
another, from one challenge to another and in the pursuit
of their project, had gone from one country to another,
giving performances relating to the folk songs and dances
of Uttarakhand and other regions of India. They had thus
introduced the Delhi intelligentsia to the great folk art
themes and tunes, dances, dramatic forms and folk ballads
like Rajula Malushai Ajua Bafaul, Rami, Jitu Bagdwal,
Rasik Ramol, Haru Heet, Ram Leela, Pandav Jagar etc.
They had also experimented with productions on secular
and national themes like Indra Sabha and Ameer Khusro.
Through a succession of productions presented on
the national stage, the Parvatiya Kala Kendra had in the
hard way won recongnition from top experts as well as lay
intelligentsia as the premier cultural institution working
for India's cultural renewal though revitalisation of the folk
heritage. The Kendra was evolving a " cultural model"
which other regions could emulate. With the passing away
oftheir guiding spirit, the Parvatiya Kala Kendra members
have been asking themselves: What next? Where do we go
from here? Slowly and silently life asserts itself and the
dominant thought in the mind of each one of them is: We
must not let our mentor, our master, down!
That is as it should be: I lend my moral support to
those who have pledged that Mohan's dream and his project
will not be allowed to perish with him. I also believe that
an institution created by an individual is like his child who
is notjust his extension but has a life, a will, a momentum,
a destiny and a future of its own. The same is and will be
true of Parvatiya Kala Kendra. It is already showing a will
of its own, charting out its own growth path on the basis of .
the initial push provided by its founder and mentor. I bless
this independent initiative. There is an old Chinese saying
that a thousand miles long journey begins with a single

step. We are already seeing the beginning of the new
journey.

