ABOUT OURSELVES
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was registered as a society
in 1968 with a View to promote the folks forms of
Uttarakhand connected with the rituals, ceremonies,
dances and Songs, legends, ballads, tales, as also the
traditional Ramlila in order to enhance and enrich opera

theatre. The Kendra began slowly by adapting the folk
dances and songs of this region to the requirements of
contemporary stage, resulting in various choreographic

compositions, which were staged on different occasion
in Delhi and other cities ofthe country, as well as abroad.
FOLK DANCES & FOLK MUSIC
The songs and dance ensemble was the ﬁrst phase
of artistic growth of Kendra extending from 1968 to
1980. Programmes of about two hours duration were

presented which projected the complete cultural milieu
of the region. The Kendra was cautious from the
beginning to choose such a path that would help it to
avoid the pitfall of the so called pure presentations in
the name of authenticity - which could only be crude
copy of the originals forms, or the other pitfall of an
individualistically oriented abstract choregraphy that

would have gone beyond the matrix of prevalent folk
forms. This approach helped the Kendra to preserve the
vitality ofthe folk forms as also helped it to make them
stage-worthy. This was also necessitated by the fact that
the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural needs of a

fast growing population of Uttrakhand dwelling in vast
metropolis like Delhi and what is more important, to a
new generation seeking its roots in its ethnic culture. In
a way this was an extension of the work started by Lok
Kalakar Sangh in Alrnora, wayback in the ﬁfties.

BALLADS AND TRADITIONAL THEATRE
Notwithstanding the utility and popularity of such
ensemle work, wherein were presented folk songs and
an '
dances, the Kendra developed a strong urge to build
indigenous theatre, which could encompass the entire
and
gamut of the life of the hill people of Kurnaon
A theatre
Garhwal and their aspiration for a better life.

their
which could reﬂect their problems, as also deepen
aware
aesthetic sensibility and awareness, making them
. Such a
of their past, their present, and their future
segments
us
theatre, could only emerge out ofthe vario

ballads
of the folklOrs of that region, of which the

constituted the strongest and the richest source. Being
the unwritten records of the life of the people, as lived
by them for centuries in the lap of the Himalayas, they
seemed to offer a very strong potential for any artistic
venture. The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second
phase by adapting the folk ballads of Kurnaon and
Garhwal to contemporary stage. Raj ula-Malushahi

(1981) was the ﬁrst remarkable attempt of its kind. It
was remarkable in the sense that for the ﬁrst time a
production ofthis dimension was mounted capturing the
essence of the cultural heritage of the people of
Uttrakhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that
stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod Nagpal and V.M

Badola performed in the production alongwith many
fresh entrants to theatre, and another eminent theatre

personality, Shri B .M. Shah directed it. The script was
that of Shri Brijendra La] and the musical score was that
of Shri Mohan Upreti. Since this event the Kendra did
not look back. It took up a new ballad ofthe region and
gave it a dramatic form. Ajua Bafaul (1982),
Mahabharata (1984), Rasik Ramola (1985), Jeetu

Bagdwal (1986), Hill-Jatra (1987), Bhana Gangnath
(1989), Haru Heat (1990), Rami (1992) were memorable
presentations. theatrical presentations. The other

Dimension ofthe second phare was tradional theatrical
prentations. The Kendra staged Ramlila of Uttrakhand
(198 1-85) which happenes to be a unique theatrical form
in as much as it synthesises Ramchritrnanas ofTulsi with

Hindustani, Awadhi and Brij song-compositions by local
poets of Kumaon . The entire Ramlila, sung by the actors
themselves, has compositions based on folk music, semi-

classical music. Amazingly, this corpus is staged in
eleven consecutive nights. Either some of the episodes
of this Ramlila or its abridged version, were presented
not only in Delhi, Bhopal and Ayodhya but also in China,
North Korea and Bangkok. On the insistence of the

organisers of Calcutta Theatre Festival of Nandikar, the
complete abridged version was staged. The other attempt
in Hindustani mixed with Garhwali was the presentation
of Mahabharata in Pandav Jagar style of Garhwal .
Not is this all. The Kendra ventured into another
experimentation - that of presenting folk ballads of
central Himalayan region ‘ HaIu-Heet‘ (1990), Lok Devta

