ON STAGE
Bhurnikeshwar Singh
G . S. Bedi
Jitendra
Vishwanath Manrnohan
Bhagirath Bhardwaj
Pankaj Sharma
Ashish Batra
Jay Ram Mahto
A ma r N at h

A “GIJNTEMPOBABY PﬂﬂllUCTlllN 0F MAHAKAVI BHASA S BOOTH-HARVAM Contemporary production of a Sanskrit play is always a challenging task, we do not
know how they were produced at the time when they were written. The play Doota
Vakyarn written by Mahakavi Bhasa several centuries ago has been chossen for our
project. The production is based the performance tradition of CHHAU. The play text on
the surface level appears to be very prosaic and seems to lack dramatic qualities.
The play is an episode from Mahabharata where Krishna goes to Kauravas as a messenger of peace on bahalf ot Pandava to convince Kaurava to give the Pandavas their share
of the kingdom so as to avert the war. But Duryodhana not only rejedcts the claim of
Pandavas for their share of the kingdom. but also insults Krishna. Angered by Duryodhana's

Brijendra Mishra
Yogendra Singh
Miss Mahua

४ («a :\

Sudarshana
रे {7
Duryodhana
'
\ 5
Vasudeva
O .
Kanchukiya, Sharanga Dhanush,
Nakul, Krishna-l, Hathi है Garuda
Bhima, Krishna-II. Garuda
Yudhisthira, Krishna-III, Dhritrashra,
Nandaka Khadag, Hathi, Garuda
Arjun, Krishna-IV, Garuda
Sutradhar. Kaurnodaki Gada, Sahadeva,
Hathi, Garuda
Duhshasana, Panchjanya Shankha,
Garuda; Vashuki
Sutradhar, Panchjanya Shankha
Garduda, Vashuki
Dropadi

.

OFF STAGE
Production Co-ordinator
Asstt. Production

Vishwanath Manrnohan
Anand Gautarn
Ashish Batra, Arnar Nath

Stage Manager
Set props and ornaments
M ake-u p
Costume

Rajend ra
Roshan, Jay Ram
G.S. Bedi, Bhagirath

words, Krishna takes the form 01 the universe (Vishwaruparn) and summons the

Light-Desig ning

Himanshu B. Joshi

Sudarshana chakra. Sudarshana Chakra, personified, narrates the power of Krishna‘s
weapons - Saranga (the dhanush). Kaurnodaki (the gada), Panchajanyarn (the sankha),
Nandak (the sword) and finally the Garuda. At the end Dhritarashtra treats Krishna with
respect and honour. The play is a prelude to the inevitable Mahabharata war. It echoes
the impending danger to humanity. Krishna’s efforts to prevent this disastrous course of
action proves futile. The play has many relevant rneassages to the contemporary world, it
one goes deep into the many layers of its meanings.
In the production of the play an attempt has been made to transform the text into performance - a pure body theatre. The movements and the voice of the actors actually convey
the meaning of the text beyond the words and the play as such transcends from the
realm of workds to that of meanings (sub-text). The full potential of my play text can be
brough out only when the full potential of theatre is exploited. Chhau is a dance-theatre
known for its vigour and dynamism. The actors have been trained in the basic movements of this from with a view to evolve new forms of expression - in terms of movements
and voice through a series of improvisations centering round the situation in .the play. In
the production the lines of the text are enacted through carefully choreographed movements and sound patterns to bring our the full potential of dramatic word.

Sanskriti Shlocka

Brijendra Mishra

Music Accornpanist
Harmoniurn

Flute
Mardala
Dhol- Nagara
Shankha
Singers
Photography
Poster and Publicity
Light equipments
Set Designing
Music D i recto r
Asstt. Director
Script
Translation

:

Rama Jena

:

Aditya Kr. Vishwal
Pratibha Jena
Bhumikeshwar, G.S.Bedi,Bhagirath
G.S. Bedi
Rama Jena and All Actors
Sanjay Kr.and Mahesh
Print-one
Gulshan Kr. Batra
Satya Brat Rout
Miss. Rama Jena
G. S. Bedi
Mahakavi Bhasa
Harivansh Aneja

.
:

The Play is choreographed and directed by Bhumikeshwar Singh

nlnmrim's Bin - um

/ ८

।, Bhumi Keshwer Singh born . at Gorakhpur, Uttar
Pradesh, Graduated from Osmania University,
Hyderabad. l have done my Diploma course in ACTING from Sriram Centre for PertormingArts, New Delhi.
l have received training in Seraikella Chhau Dance
from Triveni Kala Sangam. New Delhi. government of
Chhau Dance Centre, Seraikella, Bihar and Acharya
Chhau Nritya Bichitra. । have been awarded scholarship by Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi for advance training in Chhau Dance under Guru Lingaraj Acharya.
८
During my scholarship period I also took lesson from
I दृ Shri Shashadhar Acharya. I learnt Phari-Khanda
(MARTIAL ART) technique from Shri Krishna Nayak
r
to achieve a competence in the training of Chhau. I

also learnt the art of making Mask which is used extensively in the Seraikella style
under Shri Dhirlal Bhol. । also learnt Mime from Shri Niranjan Goswami, Director, । ndian Mime Theatre, Calcutta. receipent of junior fellowship offered by Dept. of
Culture Ministry of HRD Govt. of India, Aug. 1996 to July 1998.
Experienced in different field of theatre like Acting, Mime direction choreography
and Chhau dance workshops at present working for the promotion and development of seraikella Chhau Dance and other forms of Art as a free-lancer.
For futher information please contact :
Bhumikeshwar Singh
8-239 School Block, Shakarpur, Delhi-110092

Tel. : (011) 2212049

MIISIB IIIBEB'I'DB
RAMA JENA specialised in Sangeet Visharad in Hindustani Classical Music from
Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, New Delhi. Learnt Oddissi Style of music from Guru
Surendra Nath Jena and Shri Bankirn Sethi. Learnt Odissi Style of Indian Classical
Dance from Guru Surendra Nath Jena. Accompanied Odissi Dancers in various
dance programmes. At present teaching in Mater Die Convent School

‘ 'द्रातिआ' ‘ क्य'धत्युत्तिख्या बाँठद्देथाठा छाया घ्रक्युत ठाहाट्याछि
street जो धाब्बक्वीटा. लाटव्वा के 'द्धूतत्याक्चम्मू" क्री छऊ
तृत्य-ठागृत्टा धोली ठो' टुद्रङ्मक्षिक्यरिक्ला, ठाहाआयत युद्ध
क्री ख्यिठक्शाल्शत्साट्या द्युष्ठझूल्पि लो झाठालीटा. ख्याटघक्तों
क्को, ज्जिबंतब 'अहले wrist, लोअ, grammar, ख्यिक्षिस्तता,
जुझुध्यागृ, get ट्वि'क्य a उल्लघ-झाध्रुग्लिख्या घुटा हों,
ग्राबन्ठिस्वाता carat द्याबता हें। eater: सृरग्रं ठाति आंक्चजा

टला म्रद्योठा, areas ज्यो बांग्रेखछगेटा ख्वाल्शता हें।
SET I]ESlGHER
SATYABRAT ROUT - A well known threater director and designer. Shri Satya is a
graudate of National School of Drama. Several of his successful productions are
featured in major national theatre festival held In Delhi and other parts of India and
abroad.

em ठाध्याटाया बिरंह “ 'ह्मजि२३८द्वा'
warrants: — ख्तछि

This production is financed by the deptt. of Culture, Ministry of HRD (Govt)
oun SPECIAL THANKS
STUDENTS AND SATYABRAT ROUT,
DIRECTOR OF TRIVENI KALA SANGAM AND ALL OF ITS STAFFS AND CHHAU
AND K S RnJENDRAN
MISHRA
SHISHIR
.
KAUSHIK
UMESH
,
VAGEESH KR. SINGHQNRANJAN GOSWAMI

