ni of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, and _
SHAILENDRA SHANKER has been an alum
is
Columbia University, New York. Drama
later of the famous ‘Brander Matthews Theatre’.
ﬁrst
and achievements to his credit. He was the
his life-long passion. He has had several ﬁrsts
m
rn
sojou
his
ng
York and Washington. Duri
Indian producer in the ‘Voice of America”, New
ce plays in America. He has acted in Nor- .
America he became the ﬁrst Asian to act and produ
and produced George Bernard Shaw’s
man Krazna’s ‘John Loves Mary’ and acted in
'
A
‘Over-Ruled’ and ‘The Philanderer’.
ced in Delhi are ‘Long Day’s Journey
Among the plays he has acted in and/0 r produ
Circle’. He has just written a play
into Night’, "The Tender Trap’, and ‘The Caucasian Chalk
which he hopes to produce this winter.‘
re, but he comes to us with vast
PROTAP ROY is a new-comer to the Delhi Theat
e Group, which produces plays
experience. In Calcutta he was a member of The Little Theatr

The Players with whom
in Bengali, and he has acted in many of their productions ; and also of
peare besides many of other
he has acted in practically all the plays of lbsen, Shaw and ShekeS
playwrights such as Anoulhi.

ces. She has played with
ANNE SHARMA needs no introduction to Delhi audien
able Mr. Pennypacker’,
distinction in a number of'productions, among them ‘The Remark
of Lif'e’, "The Diary of ३
‘The Queen and the Rebels’, ‘Look Back in Anger’, "The Facts
Anne Frank’, ‘Harlequinade’ and ‘Dandy Dick’.
Delhi theatre.
CAROL BAXTER and ANN KHAN are both new-comers to the
exception of
This play is in fact positively their ﬁrst appearance on the stage, with the
to
school and college productions. We feel conﬁdent that our audiences will look forward
seeing them often in the future.
JIM TY'I‘LER has acted in more than twenty plays in Delhi Curing the past eight
years, among them—‘Dial M for Murder’, "The Tea House of the August Moon’, ‘Our
'I‘own’, "I‘he Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker’," ‘Waiting fcr chot’, ‘Witness for the Prosecution’, "I‘he Waltz of the Toreadors’, "The Diary of Anne Frank’, "The Lark’, and ‘The
Caucasian Chalk Circle’.
SUSHIL JHAVERI is well knov’vn as an AIR newsreader in English. In his school
in England he took part in a number of plays. He has played the lead and in other important
roles, both in Delhi and in Bombay, in "The Prodigious Snob’, ‘Bonaventure’, ‘The Dangerous
Corner’, ‘Jean Val Jean’, ‘Pygmalion’ and recently "The Man of Destiny’.

