TH E ATR E WORKSHOP
Theatre Workshop was born in June 1958, the child of two theatre enthusiasts who,
with a few friends, wanted to launch a group which was not .over-fett
ered with committee

management. Initially the idea was to show that a Delhi amateur group could, if
it had the ‘
mind to, stage more than two productions in a season.

If for no other reason than that it succeeded in its primary objective its founders
feel
it has thoroughly justiﬁed its existence. For, whereas before the 1958/59 season
productions by
leading amateur groups were comparative 1y few and far between, from
that time onwards there
has been an unprecedented feast of productions of all kinds of plays in
several languages, Its
advent even stimulated the emergence of new groups, among them
the American Theater
Association who have given us a number of very "good productions,
notably ‘The Man Who
Came to Dinner.’

The young group did not lack friends and well-wisher’s and
it owes much to the
support both theoretical and practical of theatre enthusiasts
among whom The Little Theatre
Group and the Delhi Art Theatre gave it unstinted encour
agement.

It made its debut with a production called ‘The Queen’s
Dilemma’, a play based on
the legend of the monk who changed bodies with a king for
a period of a year so that he could
personally experience living a worldly existence. This was
presented for private consumption
to a.select number of theatre lovers.
Its ﬁrst public production—in September l958—was
‘Waiting for Godot’, produced by Walter Gardner Stanbr
idge. Other productions in the 1958/59
season were ‘Tea and Sympathy’, produced by Som
Benegal, ‘Witness for the Prosecution’.
produced by Alfred Hall of the British Information
Service. This production broke all previous
records for amateur plays staged in English in Delhi
by running at the Fine Arts Theatre for six
nights. ‘The Queen and the Retels’, produced by
Walter Gardner Stanbridge came next, and
after that ‘You Touched me”, produced by Chris
Rosenfeld to whom Theatre Workshop
owes a great debt of gratitude.

“
The ﬁrst production in the 1959/60 season was “The
Facts of Life’, produced by Walter
Gardner Stanbridge. ‘This was fol lowed by a ventu
re on to the Hindi Stage, “Yasmine’, which
was an adapta tron of the story ‘The Lady cf Carr
illa’. It was not a success. But this was follo'
wed by‘The Waltz of the Torcadors’ in which Chris
Rosenfeld played a leading part besides .
producmg the play. It was her cn 1y appearance
on the Delhi Stage, although the number 'of
productions for Wthh she was reSponsible durin
"
g her stay here was phenorninal. ‘The Diary
Anne Frank’, produced by Mich
of
rel Overman, followed.

During 1960/6], due to the retirement of one
of its directors and the preoccupation
of the other in launching an abortive attempt
to
professronal theatre, only one production was establish by means of The Delhi Playhouse a
staged—"The Man in Half Moon Street’.
one, likea predecessor ‘Yasrr ine’, was a ﬂcp.
This
So, last season its one remaining director Spent
lickinghis sores, helped greatly by the Unit
y Theatre and The American Theater Assoc
iation in
whose Jomt production of “The La rk’ he took
part, and by the Little Theater Group for
he played 1n The Caucasian Chalk Circle,
whom
and by the Delhi Art Theatre with whom
he made
his debut on the Hindi stage with a three
-line part in ‘Soroshi’.
.
~That Theatre Workshop is by no means 1r.or
ibUnd we hope will be proved by the
present production. In enters on the seco
.
nd stage of its life with the appointment
of Gulsh-an
Kapur as its Art Director. Its exist
ence as an independent play-produci
ng unit is not now so
es sential as it was four years ago, for the
amateur theatre in Delhi 18 pretty llvel
y——rarely does a
week go by in the season without at least
one production, sometimes even two,
from different
groups. 80, although we have every inte
ntion of coming up now and then with
a production of
our own, chieﬂy we expect to te occupied
in cc-cpcrating सांसी other groups in their
as we shall be next month with Tl‘e
productions,
. Little 'Ilca
- tre Crcr
मृ .p in
' their
' roductio
' n on Novem er३
30th and December lst and 2nd of ‘Har
vey’.
p
b

‘

८' i -

'

