CHIEF SECRETARY
JAIPUR

Dated 30—11—1975
Dear Shri Mantri,
It has given me pleasure to learn
that the Cultural Society of Rajas—
than is bringing out a Souvenir in
December, 1975.
It is hoped that the
Society will continue its efforts
towards fostering and promoting the
ideal of integration and national
unity by way of organising various
cultural programmes connected with
it.
I wish the Society all success in
its ventures.
Yours sincerely,
- c: /‘
मृ
CS . 08 L Vizurana

Accountant General, Rajasthan, Jaipur.
Dt. 17.1273
Dear Sri Mantri ,

Thank you very much for your letter
informing about your programme.
I send my best wishes for the suc—
cess of the programme.
Your sincerely,

हुँ. C/Z, cJu/v‘u/mezyrm

MESSAGE
Dt.17-12-73
It gives me great pleasure to learn that, as in previoUs
years, the Cultural Society of Rajasthan, Jaipur is once
again organising its cultural extravaganza in the form of
the annual Language Drama Festival in the last week of
December, 1973. This has, no doubt, been a major event
in the cultural life of this historic city of Jaipur, which
the art loving public eagerly looks forward to every year.
Apart from the excellence and variety of entertainment
provided by the various regional societies, this function

tends to foster and promote the ideals of national solidarity and emotional integration; at the same time providing
the local intelligentia a glimpse into the rich . cultural
heritage of the various regions of this vast country.
I am happy that after an . interval of three years, I am
once again in Jaipur this year to witness this rich fare
of cultural entertainment. I consider it a privilege to
extend my deep sense of appreciation to the members
of the Cultural Society of Rajasthan, and in particulars
Shri R. D. Mantri 8 H. P. Saksena who have been the
moving spirit behind organising this major cultural event
in the city, and wish the function a thumping success as
in previous years.

6३. C. dihandlani
Sr. Dy. Accountant General (lnsp.‘-Civil)
Rajasthan, Jaipur.

