Dated : 6-12-1973 ‘

My dear Shri Mantri,
I am thankful to you for your letter dated lst Dec, 73
asking me to write a few words on your venture to

organise the Language Drama Festival at Jaipur. Whenever I hear of Drama Festival, my memory goes back to
early fifties when a couple of drama-loving citizens of
Jaipur had organised the first drama festival in the Mahaveer Jain High School for four days when
language
dramas in Sanskrit, Urdu, English, Hindi, Marathi, Begali,

Gujrati, Kannada, Tamil, Malyalarn and Telgu had be
en
staged. I still recollect how the participants in the drama
had volluntarily come forward to put up the drama with
out any expenses being reimbursed to them. One of the
objects of organising such dramas was to create better
understanding among the various language-speaking
citizens of Jaipur by bringing them on one plateforrn.
This objective was more than achieved when about 100
persons participating in the dramas were meeting almost every day for about 10 to 15 days for rehearsals
and trying to understand the language and the situations which were the heart and soul of the drama. I
vividly remember how Shri Niranjan Nathji Acharya, the
then Dy. Speaker of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly who was the Chief Guest in one of the festivals
appreciated the Kannada Drama “School Master" which

had pictured the pitiable life of the village school teacher.
lnspite of the language, he could fully grasp the situations and understand the characters. Such festivals
remind us of the integrated character of our culture and
similarity of approach to problems in our county. The
situations and main theme of the dramas of other countries would look foreign to us while our dramas taken
out from any part of our country and staged in any language would mostly depict similar characters and situations.
I am extremely happy that the beginning made about
20 years ago has continued by the efforts of the Cultural
Society of Rajasthan. I am conscious of the difficulties,
both physical and financial, in organising such events
but I am cofident that with the tenacious persons like you

and Mr. H. P. Saksena, the festival would continue to be
a regular annual feature, thus providing a common platform for the various language-speaking persons of Jaipur to come to-gether for better understanding and
fellowship.

With best wishes for the grand success of the festi- ,
val.

Yours sincerely,

5. e/Iclavzyappa
Addl. Chief Engineer,
P.W.D., B. 8 R. Rajasthan

