A Few Words About Us
This Society was founded in May, 1958 with a band
of enthusiastic persons residing in this rose pink city of
Rajasthan. The membership consisted of the sophisticated gentry drawn from various circles ir-respective of
the caste, creed, sex, political or non political. It was
very much expected that the Society will provide rich
and variegated programmes to entertain the members and
public at large. But it had to face many challenges in or
out of the member-ship and still continued to function
under all odds-sometimes with thumping success and
some times with a little failure. It has to its credit various
drama productions full length as well as one Act Plays.

It had also won the best prize in full length drama
competitions by producing UNDER SECRETARY which
was also witnessed by late Prithvi Raj Kapoor, a great
dramatist of his time.
The Society, along with the Language Drama Festival
had also been producing its own plays. The plays based
on the ideals of national integration namely DARWAJ E
KHOL DO 8 lSHWAR ALLAH TERO NAAM commanded
great appalaude and were staged at various District Head
Quarters under the auspices of the State Government
(G. A. D.). The play lSHWAR ALLAH TERO NAAM was
also witenessd by the members of the Social Congress
Forum in October, 1971. The Members of

and State Legislative Assembly
play.

Parliament

highly appareciated the

As is not unusual, the Society lacks both with the
finances as well as persons of organising capacity. The
members placed in high position in this Society also
never bother about its advancement and development.
There will be many suggestions in paper as well as by
mouth but the difficulties to be faced in their implementation are never appreciated. Still the Society is running-

rurming to survive its existence.

The Society hasd so far organised 30 programmes
and produced atlease 10 full length plays. A banquet of
flowers to the dynamic personality of Shri H. P. Saksena
with whose devotion, hard labour and dedication to the
theatre, the production of full length plays could be
possible. This time we are taking you thirty years back
in Parshi Theatre.
(R. SD. (W10.ntn i

Founder Secretary

(Bileuinga
I wish your programme should
go successfully.

K. C. Mod i
Director, Hindustan Radiators Co.

Jodhpur

