In most plays the themes were Truth, Nobility, Faithfulness, and so forth, and the plays were based on mythology, history, legends of the Middle Ages and adaptations
of Shakespeare. Because of the need for Hindu-Muslim
unity, many companies staged plays stressing this idea.
Qtlch plays included Itfaq (Unity, or The National Hero)
and Noor-e-Watan (Light of the Motherland), both
popular hits of the twenties.
The best-known writer of this period was Agha Hashar
Kashmiri, called the Urdu Shakespeare. Among his many
famous plays were Safaid Khoon (White Blood), modelled
on the character of King Lear; Khwab-e-Hasti (The
Dream World of Existence), a mutilated version of
Macbeth; and Said-e-Havas (The Victim of Desire),
inspired by Shakespeare’s King John. The writing was
sprinkled with alliteration, rhyming couplets and comic
interludes.
In his later years Agha Hashar wrote many original
plays. As his art matured, his lyrics became chastened and
he shed rhymed dialogue, alliterative speech, comic inter-

ludes and superﬂuous songs. Ankh ka Nasha (The Witchery of Eyes), a story about the evil inﬂuence of a prostitute (Agha Hashar spent most of his time with prostitutes
and had fallen in love with one), has rounded characters
and amazingly real scenes in a brothel. His last play,
Rustam-o-Sohrab, the tragic story of the two legendary
Persian heroes. Rustarn and his son Sohrab, is a moving

masterly dialogue, movement and sharp, effective scenes.
These plays (the last was never staged) represent an
abrupt change of course in the literary and dramatic
direction of those times. In some ways they are a precursor
of modern Hindi drama and they f'oreshadow the Prithvi
Theatres, wich ﬂourished in the ’ﬁfties.
The Parsi theatre was an amalgam of European theatre

techniques and local pageants, farces and operatic dramas.
The sets and costumes were the nineteenth-century Western version of Oriental exotica. There was always a

backdrop curtain painted in crude colours. Mythical titans
raged and thundered on the stage. Devils soared in the
air, daggers ﬂew, thrones moved and heroes jumped from
high place walls. Vampire pits. the painted black-clorh of
a generalised scene and mechanical devices to operate
ﬂying ﬁgures were directly copied from the nineteenthcentury Lyceum melodrama and the Drury Lane spectacles
in London.
The production of a play was a big budget affair. In
mythological plays the cost sometimes rose to a lakh of
rupees (over a million rupees in modern value). In a scene
from the Bhagavatarn written by the well-known Pandit
Narain Prasad Betab, Krishna multiplies himself into
countless Krishnas; the effect of the miracle was created
by arranging mirrors, and the optical illusion was cornplete.
'
Invariably, the play opened with a prayer song, remi-

drama of human passion, of the unconscious will to self-

niscent of the nandi of the classical Sanskrit stage. The

destruction in a fatherson relationship.

actors, in full make--up and costume, their hands folded

It has strong,

