and mocking

caricatures of misers and cuckolds, they

remind one of Moliere’s plays and of the commedia
dell ’ar te.
Music was the chief concern of the playgoer. If the
play was poor, the public came to see its favourite actor in
a particular scene or song. Once, in a production of Sati
Manjari, Master Nisar, the well-publicised star singer who
played the heroine, did not appear because he was ill. The
public started booing and catcalling. He had to be brought
from home on a stretcher and produced on the stage to
sing. He was forced to sing encores of the same song eleven
times.
The opening chorus was always set a classical melody.
The duets of hero and heroine were a mixture of the classical and the folk styles, with a dash of current popular
tunes. The duets of the comedian and his wench were
dazzling nonsense in a snappy, fast, trippling rhythm, with
a great deal of clowning and tumbling. The entry of the
comic hero—for example, Munva, the clown servant in
Agha Hashar’s Khawab-e-Hasti—was signalled by the
rhythm of the tabla. The duets of the hero and the heroine

laid on voice training. In auditoriums with bad acoustics
packed with two thousand people, in improvised halls
made of tin sheets and straw mats, sometimes without any

roof, the actor’s voice reached the farthest spectator as
the applause came from the galleries.

The actor impersonating females grew long hair, since
wigs were not in vogue. A group of teen-age boys appeared
as dancing girls in court scenes. Sometimes there were

thirty-six in a company and they worked in three shifts.
The star actor was paid from Rs. 500 to 700 a month, in
days when wheat was sold for 30 kilos a rupee. The extras
were paid Rs. 30-40 a month. There were always two sets
of alternative actors for the main roles. This was not only
to give rest to the chief actors, but also to ensure the hold
of the producer on the players, who might choose to be
difﬁcult and threaten to sabotage the show. A good company generally had 100 to 150 members, excluding the
establishment staff, and a whole troupe of gate-keepers

and back-stage workers. They toured towns and cities like

were romantic, sentimental. Comic duets had echoes of
the songs of clowns and tumblers of pre-World War I

a huge circus, with truckloads of scenery and properties.
The actors specialised in particular roles and scenes.
Some portrayals—for example, Agha Mahmud’s Bilwa
Mangal, Miss Gauhar’s Draupadi and Chintamani (the

London. Music, in the scenes of murder, bloodshed or

courtesan turned saint), Rahim Bakhsh’s Fazita (the comic

precarious escape from a palace balcony, followed the
popular Western horror tunes.
An actor in the Parsi theatrical companies was required

villain), Bhagwan Das’s Krishna,

to know singing, dancing, music, acrobatics and fencing

gud’s Hamlet today. Bhagwan Das playing Lord Krishna
had a following of millions. Famous heroines of this

and to possess a good physical bearing. Great stress was

and Master Nisar’s

Uttara (the noble heroine of the Mahabharata)—were as
famous as Lawrence Olivier’s Richard III and John Giel-

