1 6.01 .201 6
Aashadada Ondu Dina (Kannada)
Original Hindi : Mohan Rakesh
Kannada Translation: Siddalinga Pattanashetty

Direction: Jagadish Manvarthe
Troupe: Bharthiya RangaShikshana Kendra

About the play

R angayana , M ysuru

speciality of this play is how and in what manner time affects human relationship. The uniqueness of this play is
that, like any era stands still in its speciﬁc period, reminesces its experience and exits after its time, each character in this
play mingles with its speciﬁc relationship, solidiﬁes its experience like a rain cloud and melts away after its time is over.
In this way this play, intertwines the relationship with nature has made space for a natural emotional range without any
antics of acting. Likewise, each actor and actress teach us how to live the role on the stage. This way, the play 'one day in

Ashada' does not remain as just a drama but becomes an experience oflife.

Director's words. . .

A person who sees a fantasy and does not have the concept of reality, himself brings his life to extreme misery.
Time does not wait for anyone. Time would have elapsed by the time one realizes the mistake. The body would have worn

out in vain. Both Mallika and Kalidas fail in building their life. Mohan Rakesh who has seen such a miserable life
personally, has given a new dimension to the character, in such a way that the historical Kalidas by recreating it in a manner
of closeness to the common human being. Since man leads life alongside both reality and fantasy, this play will remain
contemporary at all times.

Group

BharatiyaRangashikshana Kendra, the subsidiary of Rangayana is in its ﬁfth year. One year Diploma is awarded
in RangaShikshana. Karnataka State Open University has recognized this school. It is a full time theatre and Rangayana
provides free accomodation and gives monthly stipend. Along with regular classes at the school as per the curriculum,
practical teaching receives a higher priority. The objective is to give a demonstration of the training. An actor should
always grow in front of the audience, whose reaction should fathom his experience. Already, sound wave demonstration
in AdimaRanga and Dum and Rhythm and Yoga demonstration under the concept and guidance of Smt G Bhavani and
Native Kolata 'Kathemathu Dharma‘ demonstration has been successfully given under the direction of ShriSantosh
D indi gnur.

