1 6.01 .201 6
Jangtur Pangtur (Rabha)
Concept : Sudarshan Rabha
Direction: Rayanti Rabha
Troupe: Manchalengka

The Group
(Socio Cultural Organization), Assam
Manchalengka is a Socio-Cultural Organization established in the year 2009 with researchable thought
and idea
from folk story, folk instrument ,folk dance and music. Manchalengka produces modern drama without
affecting folk
traditions. One of a mentionable dance music composition directed by Prakash Rabha is “ Rabha Tribes Traditional
Depiction“ other production are directed by Rayanti Rabha such as Bwsmwta,Pinjora Trwngdarn,Janong-Jinor1g,Jangtur
Pangtur etc are performing all over the country.
Synopsis ofthe play

Once upon a time, in a remotest village, nearby the Hoktopra hill, there
lived a huge python in the cave of the dense forest of the hill. The villagers greatly
frightened at the fierce hiss ofthe hungry python and thought a plan for their safety.
They declared the python king and decided to offer a maiden to it every year for
getting rid ofbig disaster. The victim girl was dressed as bride and taken with music
and dance and pushed to the hungry python. In this way many tribes of the Rabhas
were in the verse of extinction .In the meantime two brave brothers Jangtur and
Pangtur observed this inhuman activity. One day, they severely fought with the
man eater python and at last killed that demon. Thus, the rest ofthe community was
served at last.
The Director
Rayanti Rabha has been active in theatre for the last 16 years. Born on 1983 in Goalpara Assam. she received training at
Kalakshetra Manipur , Irnphal from eminent Director shri Heisnam Kanhailal and eminent actress shri Mati Heisnan Sabitri. She
learnt all the different physical and vocal excercises under

shri Kanhailal. In 2009 she formed her own theatre group named

MANCHALENKA ( a socio cultural org.) The group largely stages folk plays and conveys social messages to its audiences. Rayanti
Rabha has acted in many plays . Some ofthe prominent plays are SATI ( written by H . S Shivaprakash ) and DA KGH A R( written by
Rabindra nath tagor) “ Uchek Langmaidong” directed by H. Kanhailal. She has also played major roles directed by Shukracharjya
caSte & credits

.

.

Deuri 2

- Miss Namita Rabha

Jangtur

' Sh.“ Shaggatﬁfabha

Ajogar ( Python ) - Sri Biraj

Pangtur.
Nlrmom
Nisimoni
Father

_
_

Bhog
.
Mule 1
Mus1c 2

sri Dlpen .a la
MISS Pinaki Rabha
Miss Gitika Rabha
Amanda Rabha

— Miss Lipika Rabha
.
. )
… Sq Jyoti Frasad Rabha
- Miss Pratima Rabha

Daughter 1

- Miss Mridula Rabha

setting 1

' LaChll Busmalary

Daughter 2
Deuri l

- Mamata Rabha
— Sri Maneswar Rabha

Setting 2
Light

- Jeepika Rabha
- Manjit Saikia

