17.01.2016
Orgon, a wealthy bourgeois, is in awe of Tartuffe, an irnposter and a
fraud. Both Orgon and his mother are swayed by Tartuffe’s piety. They consult
him before taking any decision related to the family. However, the rest of the
family is not blinded by Tartuffe. They try convincing Orgon that Tartuffe is a fraud
but in vain. The plot heats up as Orgon announces his decision to give his
daughter Marianne’s hand in marriage to Tartuffe. Further, Orgon signs over all
his worldly possessions to Tartuffe. In an effort to persuade Orgon about
Tartuffe‘s insincerity, the family devises a plan to trap Tartuffe into confessing his
desire for Elrnire. Finally when Tartuffe has incrirninated himself beyond all help
and is dangerously close to violating Elmire, Orgon orders Tartuffe out of his
house. The drama ends well, and Orgon announces the wedding of Marianne
with her lover Valere.

Moliere (1622—1673), was a French playwright and actor who is
considered to be one of the greatest masters of comedy in Western literature. [2]
Among Moliere's best known works are The Misanthrope, The School for Wives,
Tartuffe, The Miser, The Imaginary Invalid, and The Bourgeois Gentleman.
Thirteen years as an itinerant actor helped him polish his comic abilities while he
began writing, combining Comrnedia dell'arte elements with the more refined
French comedy. Through the patronage of aristocrats including Philippe l, Duke
of Orleans—the brother of Louis XIV—Moliere procured a command
performance before the King at the Louvre. Performing a classic play by Pierre
Corneille and a farce of his own, The Doctor in Love, Moliere was granted the use
of salle du Petit-Bourbon near the Louvre, a spacious room appointed for
theatrical performances. Though he received the adulation of the court and
Parisians, Moliere's satires attracted criticism from rnoralists and the Catholic
Church.

Prof. K. MADAVANE obtained his doctorate from JNU on the
representation of death in Theatre of the Absurd. Madavane retired as Professor
at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Having trained in Paris, Madavane returned to
has
‘ New Delhi to form Chingari, (1983) a theatre group with a difference. He
in
directed more than 100 plays in English, Hindi, French and German. It was
was
which
women,
of
Canada that Madavane wrote in French, The Mahabharata
on 12thproduced in 1995. The Mahabharata of women was also performed
in
staged
14th April 2013 in Melbourne with an Australian cast. The play was
position of
many cities in India in its English version. Presently he is holding the
Delhi.
the Creative Director, in Sri Ram Centre for Performing Arts, New

Moliere's

Tartuffe (Hindi)
Adaptation : Atulkumar Mittal

Director: K. Madavane;
Troupe:Sriram Centre for
performing Arts. New Delhi.

