18.01 .2016
Kallu Karaguva Samaya (Kannada)
Orginal : P. Lankesh
Stage Adaptation: B. Chandregowda
Design / Direction: Sumathi K.R uso
Troupe : Lalithakala College,
University of Mysuru,

About the play
tranquil
The play ‘Time when stone melts’ tells the story of love-romance that brings dynamism to a
like a husband
town. Amruthambudhi is a weird town. This town is usually a place of fights. There was nothing
her pararnour
silently feeling bad when wife committed adultery. The murder of the women adulteress and
the money and
were killed at the same time. It was the custom of the town to tie the person who did not return
an enquiry but to
subject him to bonded labour. And also, Panchayat meant it was the speciality not to conduct
where such demons
directly put him in the fire. ‘The time when stone melts’ is the story when even in this village
writer ‘Lankesh’ who
lived, pushed back cruelty and showed the way to live in humanity. It was the creative
also. We salute all of you who
gave this story to the readers. We have tried to extend this story to the audience
have responded to our endeavour and presenting this play before you.
Group

the degree and diploma in
Fine Arts college is the pride of University of Mysore. In this college
graduate degree in Dance are held. In
performing arts like Music, Dance, Drarnatics, Garnaka, Violin, and Post
giving programmes by all through the
these departments, the creative growth of students is encouraged by
the prestige of this college by working as
year. Famous music, dance, drarnatics experts have enhanced
ge of Music & Dance’in September 1965.
teachers here. Fine Arts College was started under the name of ‘Colle
rechristened as ‘University college of fine
Later in July 1971 it was started in the present building having been
t and initiated the growth of this collage.
Arts’. The then Vice Chancellor Shri. Kuvempu took special interes
K S Rangappa and Registrar Dr. C. Basavaraj
Due to the ncouragernent of the present Vice chancellor Prof.
participation of the senior and junior teachers,
and the interest taken by the Principal Prof. Mahajabeen and the
the drama division of Fine Arts College to give a
creatively enthusiastic students, it has become possible for
for the first time. The Drama division of Fine Arts
presentation of play at the National Drama Festival-Bahurupi
opportunity.
College is grateful to Rangayana who provided this

