18.01 .2016
Aranya Gatha (Hindi)
Playwright: Bhooshan Bhat, Bhopal
Design & Direction : Kanhiyalal Kaithwas
Troupe: Madhya Pradesh
School of Drama, Bhopal M.P
G rou p

Madhya Pradesh Natya Vidhyalaya established in 2011 by the state government. Natya Vidhyalaya
offered a full-time 2-year course include one year intense practical training and one year internship program.
The academic syllabus exposes the theatre productions and creative aspects of performing arts like writing,
acting, designing, yoga, martial arts, Film making, Children's Theatre and Music.

About Director
An alumnus of NSD, known as Actor, Director and designer at Theatre for last 30 years. He has
experience of working with the eminent theatre directors like Late B.V.Karanth , Satish Dave, Bansi Kaul.
Received ' Kabir samman' by the Government of Madhya Pradesh in 2010. Awarded with 'lftekhar Rang
Gaurav‘ in 2013. Presently working as an Assistant Theatre Director at Madhya Pradesh Natya Vidyalaya.

About Playwright
A person of eclectic talent, Mr. Bhooshan Batt is a writer, director, music director, lyricist, singer and an
actor. A prodigy of former director Late Shri B V Karanth, Bhatt was his assistant for 14 year. Bhat has worked
as an actor, writer, director, singer, music director for over 600 episodes based on various social issues to
communicate with the tribes of Jhabua. He has written the story, screenplay and dialogues for a Chattisgarhi
Feature fllrn Chattisgarh Mahatari and a hindi fil dekh Tarnasha Ravan Ka which is under production. H e has
Written 42 Episodes of Malgudi Ka Narbhakshi (Malgudi Days). Currently, he is working on sound anthropology
and documenting the work of Shri B.V. Karanth under the name of 'Raag Karanth' which is a nationwide
documentation program on the methodology of B .V. Karanth's theatre music and is first of its kind.

About Play
In Indian Tradition and culture, any incident occurred at a particular time, instead of place or date of the
same its importance, it‘s reason of occurrence and truth and love came out as a result of that incident is
recognized in the history. Folk songs, Tribal songs and stories have such glimpse in them, which came out of
the history and received respect in the form of Historical Heroes and tribal deities. These tribal groups have
other art, but they do not have any particular theatre style. Aranya Gatha is the first of its type. It's not a theatre
of any tribal story, but a tribal culture knowledge and a new type of theatre experiment. Aranyagatha, is a folk
theatre production presented by students of Madhya Pradesh Natya Vidhyalaya. This production has
conceived under academic training of folk and tribal culture of Madhya Pardesh. The Dindori District of Madhya
Pradesh is well known for its vibrant tribal art and Culture. The region have 3 prominent ethnic groups, Gond,
Baiga and Pradhan. The play Aranya Gatha bringing the story of Ramayani, that traditionally performed by

Pradhan tribes.

