1 9.01 .201 6
Chitrapata Ramayana (Kannada)
Playwright : H.S. Venkateshamurthy
Design/Direction: Manjunatha L Badiger
Troupe: Samasthi, Bengaluru

Playwright
Dr.H.S.Venkatesh Murthy is more familiar to the state as a poet and plawvright. So far more than fifteen of his
collections of poetry have been presented to Kannada literary world. The major plays written by him are ‘Alilu Ramayana’,
‘Hoovi’, ‘Sunnada suttu', ‘Kamsayana’, ‘Kuni kuni navile’, ‘Agni varna’, ‘Urmile”, ‘Urya uyyale’, ‘ahata’ etc.
For his contribution to children’s literature he has been awarded Child literature award from Kendra sahitya academy and
for his work ‘kumara vyasa kathanthara’ he received V M Inarndar memorial prize.

About Director
Manjunath L Badigera is a graduate of Neenasarn Rangashikshana Kendra and he has worked as repertory actor
and director. He has studied Yakshagana systematically at the Udupi Yakshagana Kendra and done his diploma in
folklore from Janapadaloka, Rarnanagar. At present he is serving as actor, director at Sarnashti team at Bengaluru. So far
he has directed plays like Harinabhisarana, Miss Sadarame, Bornrnanahalliya kindarijogi, kathana, saphalya,
parityakta,satyagraha, khaidi, sarnbashivaprahasana, chitrapatha ramayana, dashananaswapnasiddhi,
seethaswayamvara, Prameelaarjuneeyam, chirakumarasabha, vishake etc.
Troupe
Sarnashti team took birth in 2000. Its objectives are to look for new talents and nurturing interest in theatre in
them. So far our team has successfully broght dramas like Ashadanaondudina, sarnbashivaprahasana, Mrichakatik
a,
haddumeeridahaadi, alegalallirajahamsagalu, harinabhisarana, kathana, Miss Sadarame, kathe helathivi,
saphalya,
avanthara, shandilyaprahasana, nayi kathe, prameelarjuneeyam, chirakurnarasabha and vishake
on the stage. A I so ,
they have organized dramas like karnadarsha, and kolalu bhoomigeetha, by Prayana
thanda of neenasam, and rayasya

vishva rnatthu tabarana kathe, Baba Saheb Ambedkar,,suryana kudure of Janarnanadatatearn
. It is conducting literary
evening programme every week for enhancing literary interest of members.

About Play
Dr. H. S. Venkatesha Murthy’s play “Chitrapata Ramayana” is not the story
of Valmiki’s Ramayana. This is more of

a folk Ramayana. One of Helavanakatte Giriyamma’s poetic works contains some
source lines of this. In this play, the
author has adopted a style where the story is presented through showcasing
pictures & folk styled songs & dances by
devotees of goddess ‘Yellarnma’, called “Bhootaes”. The current drama
depicts an imaginary scenario after the
coronation of Rama in Ayodhya. Here, Chandranakhi's cunning plan leads
to Ravana appearing in Seetha’s quarters.
“How did he appear there?”, “Who is Chandranakhi?", “Will there be another
war between Rama and Ravana'?”. . . these
are some of the questions that the play unravels as it proceeds. “The goal
of a story becomes removing darkness and
showing light...” In the background of atrocities that women face every
day, the play motivates the audience to assess &
review the perspective from which women view men, the perspec
tive from which men need to view women, women’s

freedom of expression and most importantly the relationship between a mother and
child.

