[——

1 9.01 .201 6
Dr. U.R. Ananthamurthy's

Samskara (Kannada)
Stage Adaptation :
O.L. Nagabhushanaswamy,
M.C. Krishnaprasad
Direction: H. Janardhana (Janni)

U.R.Ananthmurthy

T roupe: Ran 9a Y ana Re PertorY , MY sore

Dr. U.R. Ananthamurthy who was a very important Kannada writer brought to Kannada sensibility and experience of both
native and non-native locales. He enlarges Kannada consciousness through ﬁction, rational thinking and intense discussion. He
started his literacy career with the publication of Endendu Mugiyada Kathe, a collection of short stories in 1955, the other collections of
short stories are Mouni, Prashne, Akasha mattu Bekku. He brought a collection called Muru Dashakada kathegalu combining all the
volumes in 1989. His First novel ‘Samskara’ was published in 1965. This novel is translated many Indian languages besides English,
Russian, French, German and Hungarian. Bharthipura, Avaste, Bhava, Preethi Mruthyu mattu Bhaya are his other novels. He started a
literacy quarterly in 1981 called Rujuvathu. He won Karnataka Sahitya Academy award in 1983, Karnataka Rajyotsava award in 1984,
Central Sahitya Acaderni award in 1992 and Masti award in 1994, the Jnanapeeth Award he was conferred is 1994 came as a very
signiﬁcant laurel to him.

O.L. Nagabhushanaswamy
He is lovingly called OLN by one and all and his literacy service has been very signiﬁcant. Including a collection of poems Prof.
Nagabhushanaswamy has published thirteen works of his own. Besides eight edited volumes and thirty four works of translation have
ﬂowed from his pen. From 2005 to 2010 he has served in government and no-governmental organisation as director, member, and
resource person very effectively. Earlier he had translated walter’s play ‘sacrates’and new contributed the stage version of ‘Samskara’.

Mayasandra Krishnaprasad
Mr. Krishnaprasad hails from Mayasandra. He is 3 attached to the stage right form his boyhood days. He has acted in one of
the well known troupes of Karnataka, Benaka, in Bangalore. He served as drama teacher in Bala Bhvana Bengaluru. At present he is
with Rangayana, besides being an actor for the last 26 years, Mr. Prasad is also and accomplished stage director.

About Play
‘Samskara’ is one of the extraordinary achievements in Kannada literature. The work contains some of finest
features in the modernist literature. Samskara is one work which kept the Kannada fictional world alive and alert

Ananthamurthy’s argument with the conservatives from Samskara itself. In the work the Confrontation of the another with
the brahmrnical moorings has emerged as a shinig metaphore. The lyrical flow of the language has redoubled the charm

of this novel. From the formal point of view ‘Samskara’ is a play, at the outset. The unity of time, place and action have
been sabguarded here. Theme is a hero and an anti-hero. The anti-hero who does not appear on stage haunts as though
he is alive though in actuality he is dead. Theme is a heroine who has acted both of them. Theme is ideological clash; the
progression of the story is achieves through dialogue. At the climax of the story Praneshacharya and chandri come
together and from them onwards the story assumes a new direction. Although Ananthmurthy appears to discuss in
‘Samaskara’ as a critical insider, the story goes beyond this predictable parameter. The conventional morality and the

instruct are petted against each other; ultimately the instruct emerges victorious. When an individual confronts the
problem of choice Praneshacharya accepts the ways of Naranappa that seems to be the message of the novel .

-Dr. K. Marulasiddappa

