I965, from
Aniala Maharishi Aniala Maharishi graduated from the National School of Drama in
the years
Over
h.
Chandigar
,
University
Puniab
where she went on to do her doctorate in theatre from
of India.
Govt.
Affairs,
External
of
Ministry
the
under
Mauritius,
she has worked as a cultural expert in
texts,
Not only has she acted in more than 40 productions of western, traditional and modern Indian
Medea,
Antigone,
as
such
Marathi
and
Hindi
English,
Sanskrit,
in
plays
several
directed
also
has
but
arean,
Vikramorvashiyam, Ashadh Ka Ek Din and has done costume designing for Greek, Shakespe
Epic
and
Indian
Classical
of
Study
ive
Comparat
Sanskrit and modern Indian plays. Her book ’The
Indian
’Classical
like
articles
several
of
author
the
is
she
and
NSD,
the
Theatre’ has been published by
Theatre Architecture’, ’Style of Acting in Sanskrit Plays’ and ’Inter—relationships between Drama and

Dance in Ancient Theatre’. She has written for the World Theatre Encyclopedia on dramaturgy in inde— »
pendent India. Ms. Maharishi is also a Bharatanatyam dancer with seven years training in the art form.
She retired as Associate Professor from the Theatre Department of Puniab University in 2004.

Ashok Sagar Bhagat Ashok Sagar Bhagat, a graduate of the National School of Drama, is a respected stage and light designer. He has worked for established directors from India and abroad and
managed the stage and technical aspects of several Festivals of India. At present he is Associate Professor at the National School of Drama, New Delhi, and Visiting Professor at the Indian Theatre Institute,

Chandigarh and the Bhartendu Natak Academy, Lucknow. A Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee for
excellence in light design, Mr.Bhagat was also the Art Director for films like Bandit Queen, Jayaganga
and Hazaroon Khwaishen Aisi.

Sankar Venkateswaran After graduating from the Calicut University School of Drama & Fine Arts
with a first rank and a specialization in theatre direction, Sankar Venkateswaran went on to complete
his training in acting with the Theatre Training and Research Programme, Singapore. In 2003 he founded the group ’Theatre Roots & Wings' of which he is now the Artistic Director. Over the years he has
worked with various eminent theatre artists from across India and abroad as an actor, director, music

composer, and percussionist. His maior appearances have been in plays like Performing Women (New
Delhi, Tokyo, Seoul, 2007-08), Centaurs (dir. Anuradha Kapur, World Social Forum, Nairobi, 2007),

Singapore Beckett Proiect (dir. Philip Zarrilli, Patricia Boyette, 2006). His most recent directorial proiect, Quick Death, was performed across the country in 2007. Mr. Venkateswaran has also been invited
to conduct workshops for the actors of Kuna'uka Theatre Company in Tokyo and theatre professionals
in Mumbai.

Meher Malik One of the most talented contemporary dancers in the country today, Meher Malik heads the BANJAIZA dance company and is accomplished is the forms of Belly-dancing, Hip-hop,
Middle Eastern and gypsy dance forms, Salsa, Jazz, Kathak, Odissi and Bharatanatyam. In September
2007 she secured the second highest score at the Belly Dance Festival in England. She has traveled
widely in India and abroad to perform at various prestigious festivals and programmes and is presently
training students while pursuing further studies in dance herself.

Meeta Mishra Meeta Mishra graduated from the NSD in 2005 with a specialization in Design and
Direction and went on to receive training at the NINASAM Theatre Institute in Karnataka. Over the

past few years she has designed costumes and sets and helped in the direction of plays. In the past she
has worked with the Bread and Puppet Theatre at New York and with the Karnataka State Repertory,
RANGAYANA, for three consequent seasons, where she contributed greatly with her organizational
skills during the annual national theatre festivals. At present Ms. Mishra practices theatre in Karnataka
and Delhi.
’

