Bharatanatyam exponentGeeta Chandran pays homage to her friend, Rakesh Sahai, who documented h er work for almost a decade
RAKE” SAHAI,

' few years back, is extremely
poignant. My good friend,
photographer Rakesh Sahai,
who took this picture died suddenly
this January. Rakesh had spent
the last nine years photographing
dance at my studio, Natya Vriksha in
Delhi and had developed a unique
eye, ८ passion and understanding
of Bharatanatyam.
The memory of this particular
shoot is extremely precious to me.
Wanting to capture a different ﬂavour of dance in the Khajuraho
temple complex, we discussed a different look for the shoot; it would

be in a black cotton saree with minimal dance embellishments, it

would contrast and highlight the
detail and ornate carvings of the
temples in the background.
It was 5 pm when the light
turned just right, a mellow orange
that transformed the temple stone
to an incredible luminosity, and
Rakesh clicked thousands of
exposures from all angles, even as
I posed in classical Bharatanatyam

postures.
At the very end, as we were

Winding up, he spotted this smaller
shrine along the periphery of the
Lakshman temple. And he helped
me clamber up the high-ish ledge

where I squeezed myself between दृ

pillar and a wall. Precariously balanced with the light rapidly fadin'
away, Rakesh opted for black and}
white exposures to retain the deli-,
cate contrasts of that moment. ^
this frame was created which I
think is an extraordinary capture 0‘Khajuraho at its very best.
,.
The juxtaposition of the dancer
as a minimal intrusion in a classic ‘
shalabhanjika posture against the है

filigreed sculptures of the temple है"
complex is what makes this such 31
memorable image. In 2014 itself, ..
part of the celebrations of my four; ,
decades long dancing career, Naty ५

V'riksha organised an exhibition of,
photographs by Rakesh. This imag!
became the leitmotif for that show

and we used it on the invitation

3

and the posters.

५;

Earlier this year, accompanying t",
Sharanya, my daughter, who was a ’
forming in Khajuraho, I returnedto;
the temple complex. But I just Coul I
not bring myself to return to the दृ
Lakshman Temple. The memories टु
Rakesh were simply too fresh and g,
recent loss too raw for me. I simply ,-. ८
was not readyto open that memo - नं३
basket at that time. But the image
he created remains, etched in time, '

just as Khajuraho remains timeless
etched in stone.

Chandran striklng the shalabhanjika pose in the Khajuraho temple complex

s

-, This photograph, taken a

/";

