THE REPERTORY COMPANY
The Repertory Company of the
National School of Drama is a performing group of players and
technicians who have graduated
from the School in the past years.
Formed in 1964 with just four actors, the Cornpany was started on
an experimental basis by Shri E.

stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekant,

Begum Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri,
Mahabhoj, and Mitro Marjani. In
the past years its repertoire has

also included foreign plays in
translations and adaptations.
Some examples: Brecht’s Cauca—
sian Challk Circle,. Three Penny Op-

Alkazi, the Director of the School

era and Puntila and His Man Matti;

till the late 19705 and a dynamic
theatre personality who had a
major hand in nurturing and expanding the Company over the
years.
In 1977, when the Company ac—
quired the status of National Repertory, Shri Manohar Singh took
over as its Chief and carried its

Shakespeare’s Othello and
Macbeth; Moliere’s School for

activities across the nation, the

of Two Masters; Saroyan’s The Cave

foundation for which had been
laid by Shri E. Alkazi. Since the
early 19705 the Company has produced a rich variety of plays that
range from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works. A

Dwellers; and Bernard Shaw’s Pyg—

Wives; Osborne’s Look Back in An—
ger; Bond’s The Fool; Chekhov’s

Uncle Vanya and Cherry Orchard;
Pirandello’s Six Characters in
Search of An Author; Istvan
Orkeny’s Totek; Rostand’s Cyrano
de Bergerac, Goldoni’s The Servant

few examples: Tughlaq, Andha

malion .
The Company is based in New
Delhi, where it gives regular performances. It has a Studio Theatre
and a beautiful Open-Air Theatre.
The latter is one of the best of its

Yug, Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed,

kind, situated in natural sur-

Panchvan Savar, Rasgandharva,

roundings readily adaptable to
different environments and thus
enriching the different style of
productions which have been
staged there.
One of the remarkable contributions of the Company’s activities
which has given a new dimension
and opened a new avenue for the
Indian theatre is the use of hi storical monuments and ruins like

Surya Ki A n tim Kiran Se Surya Ki
Pehli Kiran Tak, Charpai, Sainyan
Bhaye Kotwal, Adhe Adhure,

Sandhya Chhaya, Iasma Odan, Mattaoilas, Kath Ki Gadi, Virasat,
Mashriqi Hoor, Main Ladli Maina
Teri, Pagla Ghoda, etc.

The Repertory has worked with
a variety of directors from India
and abroad. Besides using the best
available scripts the Company has
also successfully dramatised and
produced a few novels and short

Pinjor Garden, Chandigarh,
Ferozeshah Kotla, Talkatora Garden and I’urana Quila in Delhi for

