itﬁs must ३ rspéct ’
ड्े ‘ tau/thew awars’
- mm or mini
New Delhi. 18 November

Post the ‘award—wapsi' campaign
across the country during which
a slew of writers returned their
Sahitya Akademi awards to protest against “growing intoleran-

ce”, Akademi President Vishwa-J
nathPrasad'I‘iwari today saidWrits ers must respect the awards they
1 win.
-

।
Contei-ringtre'YuvaPuraskar'
i, on young authors from two Indiहुँ an languages in a ceremony here,
दृ Tiwari laid emphasis on the im' ३ portance of Sahitya Akademi
awards.
7 “Such honours are an acceptance by the society and it is on the
basis of society's acceptance that
institutions like Sahitya Akade-

‘ mi gives away these awards, Which
our writers should respect,” Tiwari said in his speech delivered
in Hindi. ,

The Akademi had on 14 November in a function in Mum-

wari said.
The Yuva Puraskar was given
to 23 authors under the age of 35
years and includes a cheque of Rs
'50,000.1128 an engraved copper

plaque.

,

“For such occasions, honour is
a more beﬁtting termthan awards,
for the latter term gives a materialistic impression. But honour
is above all this. The money that
we receive can be shared with our
children but the honour that we
earnis extremelypersonal and cannot be shared. We cannot sell-it,
neither can we return it,” Tiwari
said.
In the recent past, a number of
filmmakers, scientists, Writers
and historians returned their
' awards toprotest against the “cli-

५' AmeenImam (Urdu), Veera Rathod
(Marathi), Sudeep Chakraborty
(Bengali), Narayan Jha(Maithili),
Hansda Sowvendra Shekhar (Eng—
lish) among others.
'
Thirteen books of "poetry, 3

novels, 6 collection of short stories and one‘book of literary
criticism have,,won this year's
Yuva Puraskar with no award
for Kashmiri language.
K , Sreenivasaro, secretary,

Sahitya Akademi also spoke of
the importance of;the awards.
“The Akademi seeks to encour- ‘
age andlpromote young writers
across India and in all the: 24 regional languages through the
Yuva Puraskar instituted in

2011.

,

“We also organise periodical—
mate of intolerance” in the coun- “ " ly literary event called Yuva Sahiti across India in all the 24 rectry.
At least 38 authors including ognised languages. It also has a
Nayantara Sahgal, Ashok Vaj- scheme called Navodaya, where
peyi, Uday Prakash, Keki N Dar- young writers can get the helpof

uwalla had returned theirAkade-

the Akademito publish their first

works in their regional language,”
" bai presented" the Bal Sahitya ' sakar awardee Aman Sethihad al- he said.
Meanwhile “Avishkar”, a twoPuraskar 2015 to writers for ' so j oined in theprotests by return- ’
day Young W'riters' Festival is
their contribution to Children's ing his award.
Akademivice president Chan- scheduled from tomorrow here
Literature.
'
“Lately, awards havebeen in me: drashekhar Kambar gave away the Where youngwriters from 22 dif_ dia headlines. Four days ago, Bal awards today to the authors who ferent Indianlanguages will take
~ Sahitya awards were conferred" were chosen in a unanimous vote part and present their works in
upon in Mumbai.) Hosting such by the Executive Board of the in- the programme and noted writ— '
ers like Arun Kamal, Humra
८ awards tw1ce in a single week is stitution.

3 a, indeed a celebration, and this _

; gives me immense pleasure,” Ti-

mi awards. The 2012 Yuva Pura-

The 2015 Yuva Puraskar awar- . Quraishi and Rahul Saini chair
dees include Indira Dangi (Hindi), the sessions.

