. my life (0
Sangit NatakAkademi awardee Shilpguril Reba Kanta Mahanta in conversation with The Sentinel
. FROM .OUR CORRESPONDENT

Affairs, Government of Assam. In this course

of time, 'I also took initiative for holding var' ious workshops, on mask culture and aware-

SIVASAGAR, November 15: Reba Kantav'
Mahanta, a prominent artist in the field of tra—ditional mask culture of Assam, who has been
rendering exponential contribution towards
this unique art form, once again made the en—
tire State proud when he was presented the

ness pro gramme of the endangered unique art

form.

.

tigiou's award to Mahanta for his life-long con-.

Most memorable incident in your life
Certainly, the meeting with former President of India, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. It was in
the» yea-r 2003, when I represented Assam in
the Republic Day procession held in New Del— ¸

tribution to preserve the, endangered tradition

hi with the mask-making tableau and cultural

of mask making at the grand Durbar Hall of
the Rashtrapati Bhavan on October 23.
' ‘ ' In an exclusive interview with The Senti-

performances and bagged the second prize for
the State of Assam. Seeing our performance

nel, Shilpguru Reba' Kanta Mahanta emphasizes how» his work has become his devotion.
Excerptsfrom the'interview:
How do you feel receiving the national

Dr APJ Abdul Kalam invited me along with
my team to Rashtrapatj .Bhavan where we dem-

Sﬁangéet‘Natak Akademi Award this year. Pres-.5
idem-Pranab _ Mukherjee presented the 'pres—-

in the procession, the honourable President

onstrated the scenes ofbhaona with mask before him. We received high praise from the
President. How could I forget the day? The

honour of Sangeet Natak Akade mi Award?
'No words to explain. I am happy that my
devotion towards myWork was acknowledged

memOry of that day is preserved in my mind
to cherish for my entire life.

And of course, the receiving of the pres-

by]0111001111९1३/३८3: premier body. I have devo t-_
ed my life to keep alive the unique art form
and promote it at the world stage.

tigious Sangeet Natak Akademi award from
the hands of our President Pranab Mukherjee
on October 23 , 2015.
Would you like to say something about

How did you get into mask art?
,I imbibed my love for mask art at an early

age from my artist father Gopikanta Mahanta.
He even taught-me the tips of Xatriya. dance.
I' Started my career in 1957 with participa~
tion in the central celebration of Independence Day as .Borgeet and Xatriya dance ar—
tiste. I also took part in the All India National

Congress session held in,- Pandu- as Xatriya

Shilpgur'u Reba Kanta Mahanta receiving the SangeetNatak Akademi b गृ
Award from President Pranab Mukherjee at Rashtrapati Bhavan in
’
New Delhi recently. (Sentinel)

your recommendation for Padma Shri?
३ रे 1- am thankful that the Sivasagar district

administration has forwarded my name forthe

prestigious Padma Shri award. I have devot—
dance artist in 1957. But my career as a mask masks used in bhaona. In 1986, I performed ed my life to keep alive this art form. I must
artist started in 1976 with participation in NE bhaona with mask at Digboi and Guwahati thank everyone for their love and support and
India Cultural function where I demonstrated under the aegis of the Directorate of Cultural acknowledging my contributions.
J

