Synopsis
OPENING TABLEAU.
the darkness.
Scene

1.

Desdemona alone. Great black hands come out of

The abduction of Desdemona and preparations to meet the Turkish ﬂeet.
Shakespeare’s Act one condensed into about ’7 minutes. Othello, black
general in command of white man’s army, runs off with the daughter of
one of the leading members of the establishment. The Duke is reluctant

to institute proceedings against him since he is now urgently needed to
repel the Turkish invasion. Iago is present on the sidelines as a sardonic
black jester; he has a long and bitter speech on what it costs to be an

‘Uncgle Tom’, the strains and compromises of making it in a white man’s
worl .
2.

The collage. Othello’s memory of the storm at sea leads into the epilectic

Scene

3.

ﬁt. The other characters get their hooks into him—literally. He falls
and the events of the play ﬂash before his mind. He imagines an adulterous Desdemona working with the other whites to destroy him.
Interview between Duke and Cassio as a contemporary scene. Duke
gives Cassio a severe reprimand for his drunkenness and then reveals that
he is going to promote him in Othello’s place. Cassio is made to renounce
his friendship with Othello and then receives the Cyprus command in
return for his disloyalty.

Scene

4.

Egged on by Iago, Othello decides to kill Desdemona.

Scene

5.

Othello gets the news, that he has been recalled and that Cassio has been
appointed in his place. Now that he’s defeated the Turks, he’s outlived
his usefulness. He turns on Desdemona in a fury, slapping her face.

Scene

6.

Scene

7.

Desdemona’s monologue, justifying her marriage to Othello. Iago pours
scorn on her view of the black man as a noble savage.
Othello and Desdemona confront each other. He is appalled by what he

Scene

thinks of as her duplicity, she is baﬂied by his unmotivated savagery.
Scene

8.

Brabantio’s monologue. He appears here in his alter ego as a bigoted
Jewish paterf'amilias. His small-minded prejudice provides yet another

9.

With a scream of frustration, Othello drops out of character and turns on
his tormentor, Iago. He is no longer the black general but a black actor.
Desdemona and Lodovico arrive, also as actors, and try to throw Iago
out of the play. He ignores them and tells Othello that it’s only right for
him to kill Desdemona- she deserves it——but that he’s quite wrong to kill
himself. The would be doing whitey’s work for him.
Lodovico, Duke and Brabantio try to persuade Othello to ignore lago’s
remarks and continue with his allotted role. Othello remains noncommittal.

variety of racial bigotry.
Scene

Scene 10.

Scene 11 .

The black actor Othello has only half his mind on the job.

He’s busy

working out the implications of what Iago has said. Desdemona the
actress is thrown into a panic and is killed. Iago reappears to remind him
that he need feel no guilt, and urging him once again to reject the course
that the whites have mapped for him. At the crucial moment Othello
hesitates, knife in hand. The whites kill him, and while Iago cradles the

body, Desdemona rises to join the others who draw together in smiling
complicity.

