The House Negro and the ﬁeld Negro by MALCOLM X.

Back in slavery days there was what they called the House Negro and the Field
Negro. The House Negroes lived in the house with the master, they dressed pretty
good, they ate good because they ate his food——what he left.
They loved the master; and they loved the master more than the master loved .

himself.

They would give their life to save the master’s house—quicker than the

master would.

If the master said, “We got a good house here”, the Negro would say,

“Yeah, we got a good house here”. Whenever the master said ‘we’, he said ‘we’.
That’s how you can tell a House Negro.
He identiﬁed himself with his master more than his master did himself.

And if

you came to the House Negro and said, “Let’s run away, let’s escape, let’s separate”,
the House Negro would look at you and say, “Man you crazy ! What you mean,

separate ? What is there a better house than this ?

Where can I eat better food than

this ? Where can I wear better clothes than this ‘2” In those days he was called a
‘house nigger’ and that’s what we call them today because we still got some house
niggers running around here.

On that same plantation there was the Field Negro.

The Field Negroes—those

were the masses. There were always more Negroes in the ﬁeld than in the house. The
Negro in the ﬁeld caught hell. He ate left-overs. In the house they ate high on the
hog. The Field Negroes didn’t get anything but what was left of the insides of the hog.

That’s what you are—gut eaters.

And some of you are still gut eaters.

The Field Negro was beaten from morning to night; he lived in a hut; he were

old cast-off clothes.

He hated his master. He was intelligent.

on ﬁre, he didn’t try to put it out; he prayed for a wind.

When the house caught

When the master got sick the

Field Negro prayed that he’d die. If someone came to the Field Negro and said,
“Let’s separate, let’s run”, he didn’t say “Where are you going ?” He’d say, “And
place is better than here”. You’ve got Field Negroes in America today.
Negro. The masses are the Field Negroes.

I’m a Field

Just as the slavemaster of that day used Tom the House Negro to keep the Field
Negroes (Le. Revolutionary Negroes) in check, the same old slavemaster today has
Negroes who are nothing but Uncle Toms. To keep you and me in check, to keep us
under control, keep us passive and peaceful and non-violent. It’s like when you go to

the dentist and the man’s going to take out your tooth. You’re going to ﬁght him
when he starts pulling. So he squirts some stuff called Novocaine in your jaw, and
you suffer—peacefully. Blood running down your jaw and you don’t know what’s
happening.

Because someone has taught you to suffer—peacefully.

The slavemaster took Tom and dressed him well, fed him well and even gave him
a little education—a LITTLE education; gave him a long coat and a top hat and made

all the other slaves look up to him.

Then they used Tom to control them.

The same strategy that was used in those days is used today by the same white
man.

He takes a Negro, a so-called Negro, and makes him prominent, builds him up,

publicizes him, makes him a celebrity.
Negroes—and a Negro leader.

And then he becomes a spokesman for

