_
र सौहार्द पूर्ण
दे-, कलाकारों क्री चुनाव समिति आदि में मै" उनके साथ रहा हूँ। हमारा उनसे संबंध बराब
। जितनी सुखद स्मृतियां
रहा I अब जब भी ऐसे मौके जाते हैं, मोहन जी बराबर राद जाते हैं । वे चले पाये

बनी
हैं, दुखदायी लगने लगीं है । उनका अभाव खटकता है । उनके चित्र उभरते रहते है । उनकी याद
रहती है ।
वे एक Legendary Figure थे-मेरा ऐसा मानना है । उन्हें मैने कभी नमस्ते नहीँ क्री, पर अब

करता दूँ। उन्हें शत् शत् प्रणामरा मुट्ठी बांध कर कहूँ-लाल भलाम .......
-पंचानन पाठक
2 9 -4 - 9 8

ABOUT OURSELVES
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was registered as society in 1968 with a View to
promote the folk forms of Uttarakhand connected with the rituals, ceremonies,
dances and songs, legends, ballads, tales, as also the traditional Ramilila in order

to enhance and enrich opera theatre. The Kendra began slowly by adapting the
folk dances and songs of this region to the requirements of contemporary stage,

resulting in various choreographic compositions, whic.h were staged on different
occasions in Delhi and other cities of the country, as well as abroad.
FOLK DANCES 8c FOLK MUSIC

The songs and dance ensemble was the first phase of artistic growth of the
Kendra extending from 1968 to 1980. Programs of about two hours duration 1
were presented which projected the complete cultural milieu of the region. The

Kendra was cautious from the beginning to choose such a path that would help it
to avoid the pitfalls of the so called pure presentations in the name of authenticity

- which COuld only be crude c0py of the original forms, or the other pitfall of an
individualistically oriented abstract choreography that would have gone beyond
the matrix of prevalent folk forms. This approach helped the Kendra to preserve
the Vitality of the folk forms as also helped it to make them stage-worthy. This

was also necessitated by the fact that the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural
needs of a fast growing population of Uttarakhand dwelling in vast metropolis

like Delhi and, what is more important, to a new generation seeking its roots in
its ethnic culture. In a way this was an extension of the work started by Lok
Kalakar Sangh in Almora, wayback in the fifties.

