_
BALLADS AND TRADITIONAL THEATRE
Notwithstanding the utility and popularity ofsuch ensemble work, wherein
were presented folk songs and dances, the Kendra deveIOped a strong urge to
build an indigenous theatre, which could encompass the entire gamut of the life
of the hill people of Kumaon and Garhwal and their aspiration for a better life. A
theatre which could reflect their problems, as also deepen their aesthetic sensibility
and awareness, making them aware of their past, their present, and their future.
Such a theatre, could only emerge out of the various segments of the folklores of
that region, of which the ballads constituted the strongest and the richest source.
Being the unwritten records of the life of the people, as lived by them for centuries
in the lap of the Himalayas, they seemed to offer a very strong potential for any
artistic venture. The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting
the folk ballads ofKumaon and Ga rhwal to contemporary stage. Raj ula-Malushahi
(1981) was the first remarkable attempt of its kind. It was remarkable in the
sense that for the first time a production of this dimension was mounted capturing
the essence of the cultural heritage of the people of Uttrakhand. It was also
remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod Nagpal and V.M
Badola performed in the production alongwith many fresh entrants to theatre,
and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directed it. The script
was that of Shri Brijendra Lal and the musical score was that of Shri Mohan
Upreti. Since this event the Kendra did not look back. It took up a new ballad of
the region and gave it a dramatic form. Ajua Bafaul (1982), Mahabharata ( 19 84) ,
Rasik Ramola (1985), Jeetu Bagdwal (1986), Hill-Iatra (1987), Bhana Gangnath
(1989), Haru Heet (1990), Rami (1992) were memorable theatrical presentations.

- Of these Rasik Ramol was picked up by Doordarshan for its national telecast in
1986. The other dimension of the second phase was traditional theatrical
presentations. The Kendra staged Ramila of Uttrakhand (1981—85) which happens
to be a unique theatrical form in as much as it synthesizes Ramcharitmanas of
Tulsi with Hindustani, Awadhi and Brij song-compositions by local poets of
Kumaon. The entire Ramlila, sung by the actors themselves, has compositions
based on folk music, semi-classical music. Amazingly, this corpus is staged in
eleven consecutive nights. Earlier some of the episodes of this Ramlila or its
abridged version, were presented not only in Delhi, Bhopal and Ayodhya but also
in China, North Korea and Bangkok. On the insistence of the organizers of Calcutta
Theatre Festival of Nandikar, the complete abridged version was staged. The

1 other attempt in Hindustani mixed with Garhwali was the presentation of
Mahabharata in Pandav Iagar style of Garhwal.
Not is this all. The Kendra ventured into another experimentation - that of

presenting folk ballads of central Himalayan region - ‘ Haru-Heet’ (1990), Lok
Devta (1994) and Gori Dhana (1996), in Hindustani, so as to reach larger
audiences. These were well received in Delhi. Haru-Heet was also presented at

the State Drama Festival organised at Bareilly by Sangeet Natak Academy, U.P.

