_
DIRECTOR'S NOTE
"This world is full of opinions. Half of them are by the people who have
never been in trouble."

\Vhen I first read Brecht's play Caucasian Chalk Circle, I was mesmerised
by the portrayal of Azdak, a street smart waster, who had dived deep in the

cauldrom of human misery and had seen the ugly face of injustice and human
problems. \Vhen a coup in the city catapulted him in the chair ofjustice, he put all
his experience into the process ofjustice. Ignorance oflaws, rules and learned and
lengthy procedures did not stop him. Armed With overriding desire to be fair, he

devised new and unconventional procedures to divine truth and mete out justice.
He could do it only because he knew what injustice is all about.
My directing Goria is pure coincidences. It is a valuable coincidence for it
reawakened my interest in the human drama of justice and its chief actors - the
men and the women responsible for justice. In Goria I found another man who

resolved to do justice and devised his own methods and procedures to ensure it.
In the sixth century feudal India governed by courts, courtiers and palaces,
Goria left his palace and took his court to the doors’teps of the people. He travelled

through his entire kingdom meeting people, listening to their problems and solving
their cases with the help of his native wisdom and the desire to do justice. He
devise all kinds of tools to divine the truth. This was a revolutionary procedure.

From the way his people revere him till today it is abvious that he succeeded in
what he had set out for.

My encounter with Goria and the people who revere him has enriched my
understanding of the process ofjustice.
—Ramesh Barbe/'3

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra expresses is gratitude to the Department
Govt. of India,
of Culture, Ministry of Human Resource Development,

wishers for
I.C.C.R., Shri Ram Bhartiya Kala Kendra, patrons and well
us to present
their generous help and coopration which made it possible for
and other cities
various facets of culture of Uttarakhand not only in Delhi
of India but also abroad.
Hukum Singh Rana
General Secretary

w

