In the crumbling two—storey—
ed ancestral house of the Deshpan-

de's

at

the play

Dharangaon
begins

in

three

Vidarbha,

for

6—30 P.M.
Academy

days after

Tatyajee's death. With. the blind
and deaf mother occasionally call—
ing out to her dead son, the fa—
mily waits

December 3

the arrival of her

Wacla Cltireéancli.
Kalavaibhav, Bombay
Drama : Mahesh Elkunchwar
Direction : Vijaya Mehta

son Sudheer and his working wife
Anjali from Bombay. They arrive
८
around midnight and it is apparent that only Aai, Tatyajee's wife,
mourns his loss. Her only daughter Prabha, who wants to become a doctor
or a teacher, resents having to depend on the generosity of Bhaskar,
Tatyajee's eldest son and now the head of.the family.
Next morning Bhaskar and Vahini try, and fail, to interest Sudheer
into sharing the funeral expenses. Anjali grumbles about the dilapidated
house. Sudheer decides to ask Bhaskar about division of properties including jewellery. Aai quietly pays for the hOusehold needs out an emer—
gency fund left by her husband.
In the afternoon on the same day Anjali is annoyed at Vahini's
plea that her teenager son Parag be taken to Bombay for further studies.
Sudheer cannot talk to his brother about the property because Bhaskar
is enraged at having seen Parag with a low—caste (Deshpandes are Brah—
mins) boy. Chandu, Tatyajee's somewhat retarded youngest son, Cuts his
foot badly on the rusty metal of a tractor standing on the yard for
ten years. Ranju, Bhaskar's daughter, has only films on her find and
the way her English Teacher whistles to the girl from the main gate
irritates Prabha.
.
An after—dinner conversation about Sudheer's colour TV in Bombay
brings about the involuntary disclosure by Vahini that all the old
copper and bell—metal utensils have been sold. Bhaskar blames Sudheer
for not sharing the financial burden of running the estate. Prabha wants
\

her share so that she can stay in a hostel at Amravati and get a univer—
sity degree. Sudheer refuses to contribute to the "Shraddha" expenses,
complaining of extravagance. Bhaskar stands on family prestige and proposes to sell the broken—down part of the mansion. Aai ends the debate
by offering to sell her portion for the salvation of her husband's soul
and then begins to weep. Sudheer agrees to take Parag to Bombay.
Later in the night Sudheer reluctantly accepts Anjali's suggest
to take his share of the family jewellery. Ranju weeps on Chandu's shou—
lder because she fail in her examination now that her tutor has been
dismissed. Prabha to raise money for her education by selling her share

of the jewellery. Aai is revolted but later relents. Reconciled to the
fact that he heirloom has to be divided. Bhaskar asks Vahini to wear
the ornaments before they are given away while she does so. Plaster
falls on her from the ceiling and she is frightened at the omen. Tatya—
jee's mother waits for her son. Aai appeals to her husband not to haunt
them for she will try to fulfil his wishes.

