Jalaluddin

Hyder,

a

high—

minded leader of dacoits who robs
the rich to help the poor, plans

to loot the Sultan's treasures.
Diler
Jung,
the Sultan's
two
frees
Commander—in—Chief,
girls from the clutches of Allama,
who wants them to join the harem
and in the process uncovers a plot

December 6

10—00 A.M. & 6—30 P.M.
Academy

Wad/iri- Quiﬂoor
N. S. D. Repertory, Delhi
Drama : Pt. Radheshyam Kathavachak
Direction : B. M. Shah

by the courtier Salmat Baig.
As Salamat Baig persuades the Sultan to get drunk, Diler Jung
comes रंगु) warn him against a revolt by the people. Diler Jung leaves
after accusing Salamat Baig of kidnapping girls. Late at night, after
the Sultan has gone to bed, Salamat Baig steals a diamond necklace and
caught by Jalaluddin. Salamat sounds the alarm and Jalaluddin is cap—
tured with necklace on him.
Jalaluddin's

daughter,

Hamida,

set

out

to

free

him,

dressed

as

a boy. She hears the news in the forest while taking lessons on the mar—
tial arts along with cousins, Kamal and Jamal, who she beats with ease.
Diler Jung catches Kamal and Jamal about to kill a sleeping Hamida in
the forest. She requests him to let them go and falls in love with her
saviour.
Allama threaten Salamat that she will live with him only as his
wife and not as cook. Draught—hit peasants and shepherds plead with

Salamat to lift taxes. His servent Kamru wrist on being paid bribe
before he gets Salamat to agree to the proposal.
Brought before the Sultan for trial, Jalal accuses him of robbing
the pople and is sentenced to death. Hamida rescues her father just
before her execution. But Salamat manages to stab him on the back before
they can escape. The Sultan's daughter Roshenara fall in love with the

"boy" Hamida.
Jalal dies and Hamida refuses her legacy, resolving to loot the
Sultan's treasures instead. Roshenara posters Akmalshah, Hamida's Ustad

for the "boy" Hamida's whereabouts and is told that "he" will loot the,
Sultan's treasures in the next 24 hours.
,
After Allama has served an ultimatum, Salamat askes Kamru to caﬂ a

Kazi to marry them. As the Kazi is about to perform their nikah, someone
shoots an arrow carrying the warning that Salamat will die in a week.
Malka Husnara chides the Sultan for his drinking and womanizing.
Another arrow comes in carrying the warning that his treasures Will be
looted within 24 hours. The Sultan suspects Malka and is about to
strangle her when Salamat comes to assert that Diler Jung is behind all
this. The Commander—in—chief pleads innocence whereupon the Sultan asks
him to guard the treasures.
After 22 hours, Hamida enters the treasure room and is shocked

to find Diler Jung on guard. They fight, Hamida's identity is disclosed.
Diler Jung falls in love with her and yet must do his duty. In the mean—
time, Jamal and Kamal steal the treasures. The Sultan comes with Salamat

who

accuses

Diler

Jung

of

conspiring

with

the

Dacoits.

Diler

Jung,

