Dakshina Shanna: NSD Graduate (2002): Visharad in Satriya

Dance and Borgeet. She worked as an actress with National
School of Drama repertory company for 6 years. Her prominent
plays are Par Harnr Khejlna Hai, Antraal, Seemapaar, Shortcut,
Uttaramchar‘it, Gunda, Hum Tum, Aur AglrSaal etc. . She has

performed all over India, China.& Bangladesh.
Dakshina is a multi-talented expert. She conducted several theatre
workshops as a Camp Director and directed many plays like Ram
'V'ijay, Dusri Duniya, Ashari Atmar Kahini, Amak Khelibodoi
Diya. She is an excellent make-up artist andhas done make-up for
many NSD repertory productions. She teaches the art ofmake-up
in many institutes like Sri Ram Centre and-Aakar Kala Sangarn.
'

She wrote a TV. Serial ‘Rahien Aur Bhi Hain’ for Doordarshan

Nort—East. She is a freelance actress andis involved in training for
acting. A group known as Shilp Kanon in Naugaon Assam. runs
under her guidance. She is recieptant, oﬁ Sangeet Natak
Akademy’s Bisrnillah Khan Yuwa Puruskar (Acting) in 201 0. She
has bagged Pratibimb Yuva Rangkarrni Award for her outstanding
contribution in theatre in 201 1 in New Delhi and the Best Actress
Award Jyoti Rupa and ‘Surja Bora" play competition in 1998 in
’As5 am.

. .ड्ा Director’s Note
I got thisbpportunity to direct this play through my Guru Shri Suresh
Bhardwaj. It was a challenge for me to direct this diﬁicult text.
Because of the inherent seriousness of this play; I was worried if I ’ ll

be able to giv;ejustice to it?

*

से

I

The play is about the layers ofman-woman relationship. People get

married, live their life together, but most ofthe time they are not able
to understand each other completely. The play Saari Raat showcases
the depth ofthe relationship ofa husband and a wife. The old man of
this play is an unreal character, basically it is a thought of the wife.
The wife in this play ﬁnds her world, her thoughts, her desires in this
old man, which were never fulﬁlled by her husband. However, after
this night, the communication of the old man changed the mind—set

and thoughts 0fthe man for her wife.
At the end of the play I tried to give a slightly different dimension to
the story which was not there in the original script, as I wanted to
portray a: positive way to: live life. I am very much thankful to Sh.
Suresh Bhardwaj who gave me this great opportunity to understand
life, relationships and its depth.

