SumanVaidya is a NSD Graduate (1996). He

started theatre in Nainital with Yugmanch in l 9 87.
He has served NSD repertory company as ‘A’
I Grade Artiste for 6 years. He has performed
extensively in India and abroad. Some of his

distinguished plays in main lead are : Avimarak,
Charandas, Dusri Duniya, Antral, Shortcut,
Gunda, Batohi, Ban Bhatt Ki Atrnakatha,

Chafnakya Vishnugtl’pt,’ Janeman, '1857 Ek
Safarnama, Intezaar Abhi Aur, Aur Agle Saal,
Phandi, Beech Sheher etc. He is teacher of voice

and speech and acting. He is also working with
children for last 7 years. He has directed many
Hindi and Assamese plays like Kajirangat,
Hahakar, Swapnor Jagat, Kathgorat Bhagwan,
Death Watch, Phandi etc. . The play Kajirangat
Hahakar was performed _ under his direction in

National
Theatre Festival Jashne Bachpan
organized by NSD TIE Company in 2008. He is
recipient of Natsamrat Best Actor Award 2011.

Currently he is working as an Actor and teaches
Voice and Speech and Acting.
~
Anshu Pawar is a post graduate in Mass Comm.
From Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan. In 2010 she did her
ﬁrst theatre production “Ek Aur Dronacharya”
which was an “ANTRAAL THEATRE” group
production and was directed byAkbar Quadri. ‘ She
has also worked with Anjana Ranj an and
K. S.Raj endran. Other plays in which she acted are
Mausarn Ko Na Jane Kya Hogaya Hai, Tom
Sawyer, Future Bazar,. etc. . She was working with
Pragya Channel as an Anchor and was featured in
DLF Life Insurance Television Commercial and a
TV Serial.

1

Neelesh Kumar Deepgﬁ horn in 1981is a graduate
from Sangeet Natak Akademy’s ‘Yuwa
Rangkarrni Natya Karyashala’.(2001). He has
been awarded the scholarship by Ministry of

Culture, Govt. of India (2006). He is working as ‘ a
theatre artist since last 10 years and has worked
with well known directors like Mohan Mahrishi,

Kirti Jain, K.S .Rajendran, Anjana Rajan, Sanjay
U-padhyay, Suman Kumar, Kavita Kundra,
Prakash Jha. He has also acted in the plays like
Vidyotma, Baghdad Burning, Aurangzeb, Chirnte
Wale Baba, Dar Se Bich-udi, Mahadevi Verma,

Assi' Beheri Alang , ArnlisJal Damroo Baje etc..
Presently working as a Assistant Editor at Natrang
which is a well known Theatre Magazine.

