चिं'
Summary of the Oriya Play CHAlTl GHODA
Children fill our lives with laughter and joy. They are our heirs and the future hope of
the country. The child needs proper care, attention, affection and security——he needs
proper education for his mental development and growth.
But unfortunately thousands of children in this country die due to malnutrition every

year. Out of the 40 crores of children in India, 45% are below the poverty-line. About 10
crores of the children in our country are working as child labourers. Ill-fed and ill-clad
they till the sail, or toil arduously in the factories or are half suffocated in the dark interior
of mines in the bowels of the earth. They sell their body and soul to ward off starvation
and are tortured, oppressed and exploited in the process.

Wherever we go-in the dusty village roads, on the banks of rivers, in the court-yard
of temples, on' the city-pavements, on platforms, in bus stands, by the side of gutters and
garbage tins we find swarms of helpless, hapless children, struggling hard to eke out a
living.

They are like worms crawling in the slimy, murky gutters, and are in a condition of
living death. They are poor semblances and carricatures of human-beings and belie the
statement ‘where children are not, heaven is not,’ and that they bring into our lives a
fleeting touch of eternity.

The aim of this play Chaiti Ghoda is to make the audience conscious of this alarming
social malady and to find out means to eradicate this problem. “Chaiti Ghoda"
is an
attractive Orissan traditional folk-dance this element has been integrated
and blended

with the texture of the story.
The play deals with the pathetic story of a helpless orphan, Champa
, who lost her
parents in a flood. Her parents had once presented a pair
of clay-horses to the gay,
happy and carefree Champa. Now crestfallen and dejected,
she still goes on clinging to
the hope that her parents would return one day mounted on the
‘Chaiti Ghoda."
After she lost her parent her shrewd uncle Gurnan came
to sympathise with her and
occupied her hovel, and she became a target of Gurnan
’s inhuman torture. At the end,
driven out of her own house, she rneandered helpless
with the throngs of unfortunate,
unwanted orphans and destitute children.

While she was drifting about alone, like a leaf borne
along a turbulent current, she
found refuse in the house of Srimant Patnaik,
prominent political leader and social worker.

Champa worked hard from mom to night in his house
as a maid and tried to please
everybody, but was rebuffed and abused by Srimant and
his wife.

Anuparna, Srimant’s wife is the Head-mistress
of a school and lectures to her
students about the love and affection of a mother
, but at home she does not show any

पुए

