"क्व

फै

compassion to Champa and ill-treats her.

Srimant gives an eloquent speech in a public

meeting to celebrate ‘The Year of the Child’.

He enjoins his audience to wipe away the

tears of the poor destitute children and bring a smile on their lips, and fill their lives with
sunshine and happiness.
and drives her away.

But at home he behaves impatiently and cruelly with Champa

Once again Champa finds herself out on the streets. The only one who sympathises
with Champa, is Srimant’s young son Bulu. But his sympathy and love for Champa is of

- no avail against the cruel behaviour of his parents.

'

In the meantime, Guman, Champa’s uncle had somehow got wind of Champa’s
whereabouts and K has landed at Srimant Patnaik's house. Guman, cruel as he is, wants to

drive a bargain with Srimant and is ready to sell off Champa for a paltry sum of Rs. 500/-.
The Sutradhar of the drama, stands for the conscience of mankind and represents
the humane values of life. At his clarion call, there is a change in Srimant Patnaik and his
soul is infused with a new joy. At the height of the realisation Champa suddenly appeared
before him.

Srimant, his eyes brimming with tears, repents for his atrocious behaviour

and accepts Champa as his daughter—as the child of his own flesh & blood.

Champa,

thirsting for love and security, now finds herself encompassed with love and is able to
establish her identity as a daughter and sister, and her life is filled with peace. and happiness.
But there are thousands of Champas in our country—orphans, child labourers and

destitute children.

Their lives are nipped in the bud before they can blossom.

They are

debarred from enjoying life and the beauties of nature engrossed in their task and doomed
to a hard and painful life, they have no time to drink in the beauties of nature and lead the
carefree and gay life of a child.
So let us take a pledge at this moment that with this lamp of faith and hope we shall
enkindle innumerable lamps and light up the whole world with its radiance. Let us seriously
take up the cases of the unfortunate children—the flotsam and jetsam of our society and
try to fill their lives with the glory with which they come trailing into this world. Let us keep
the windows and doors open.
They will see the light of Civilisation-fplay, laugh as the world goes. Let them claim
to belong to the humanity and let them swell up with the feeling that they are not destitutes

but are part of the posterity that runs into eternity.

है Correspondence :
GENERAL SECRETARY

UTKAL YUVA SANSKRUTIK SANGH
BANA BAGICHA, SAIKH BAZAR, CUTTACK - 753 008, ORISSA
PHONE : 91-0671-603184 I FAX : 91-0671-619102

