National

है

क्शात्रष्णदृहृदृदृ'दृ'दृशांणिद्दद्रशब्बशात्सा
Plays, Folk Performances and Art & Craft Workshops

During the initial ten years of its work process, the Toli had opportunities to interact with
various theatre personalities and groups active in practicing drama /theatre with children
around the country. It led us to realize that Toli should find a way-out to bring the major
works together on a single platform. As a result, the Toll organized NSD's first ever
National Theatre Festival for Children ”JASHNEBACHPAN" in 1998. Most of the theatre
directors, teachers and groups active in urban areas of the country revealed their urban
sensibility through their work in Jashnebachpan.
Till 2001 , the Toll had no access to the children from rural areas through any of its activity.
Keeping this aim in view, the Toll organized its first "BAL SANGAM" a rnela of folk and
traditional performing arts by children mostly from rural areas of the country in 2001 .
This national rnela also attracted a huge audience and thereby added itself as another
annual national event for the Tol i .
Jashnebachpan and Bal Sangam were held together till 2003. From 2004 to 2007, these
festivals were organized in alternate years, which brought more space for each of them to
flourish independently.

This time, NSD is celebrating its Golden Jubilee year (1959-2008) and as a part of this
celebration, it was decided to hold Jashnebachpan and Bal Sangam simultaneously so
that the participants from varied backgrounds can see each others work to absorb
energies, skills and processes in order to gain inspiration for their future work. Therefore,
this particular "National Theatre Festival for Children" is not only oriented towards the
Delhi audience but also aims at interpersonal exchange primarily by seeing each others
work and interacting through workshops scheduled in the morning hours during the
festival.

This year, the volume of the festival is larger than ever in many ways. 22 plays of several
languages from various regions of the country are scheduled to feature at various
auditoria between 10th and 20th October, 2008. For the first time, we have also invited a
play from Seoul, Korea for participation.

We have also scheduled (3 groups of children to give their traditional performance
consisting of music, dance, acrobatics, martial arts, etc. in the campus of Bahawalpur
House, NSD from 1 2th to 18th October, 2008. The participating children will not only be
having two day outdoor rehearsals and 7—day performances for public but also be seeing
theatre productions at various auditoria during their nine days of stay with us. At the same
time, all the participating theatre groups may have the special opportunity of seeing the
traditional performances by children from rural areas

अब्दुल लतीफ एद्रराना
प्रमुख, संस्कार रंग छोले

