MIOIIHIIB Gl’llllll

About"!!! Play

हैगा" North Eas‘ Theater Academy iNETAi wa.
established under the umbrella of Abrram~Ek~
Gat: (an Eco—Socio Cultural organization) at
Dergaon. Assam. in 2006. with a view of
providing training in drama to the people of the
region. It offers courses and scholarships and
aims to enable placements in the future. NETA
has several achievements to its credit and its
play Seu/r'a Gad/ was judged the Best Children's
Play in the 18th All- India Multi-lingual Drama,

The plav centers on a group of children living ll‘
a city colony Their fathers work in the same
company and the children are very close to
each other. Because of their busy schedules the
parents never have time for their children who
get bored and disillusioned with their
mechanical lives. One day they discover an old
damaged car at the spot where they usually
play. and this car becomes their means for
imaginary escapes to wherever they wish. The
play looks at how the car affects their lives and
how they learn to cope with its loss.

Dance and Music Competition held at Bareilly.
U? in January 2008.

टाक्षुह के बाटे में

त्राटक के बादे में

द नार्थ-ईरट थिएटर अकादमी (नीता) की
स्थापना असम के डेरागांटा है एक

कॉलोनी में रहनेवाले कूछ बच्चे है । उन

आर्थिक-सामाजिक-सांरकृतिक रनंगटन
'अचिराम-एक-गति' की छत्रछाया है हुई थी ।

और बच्चे भी एक…दूरनरे रो काफी धुले…मिस्ने

इस नाटक के कंन्द्र में शहर को एक

सबक पिता एक ही कपनी में काम करत है

उददेश्य था इस क्षेत्र के लोगों को
नाटय-प्रशिक्षण देना । जीता में छात्रो को

है । अपनी व्यस्तता के कारण माता…पिताआं

अच्छे पाठ्यक्रम के साथ छात्रवृत्ति भी
उपलब्ध कराई जाती है । चीता' की अभी
तक कई उल्लेखनीय उपलब्धियां रही है ।
लियुजिया गाडी को बर्ष 2008 है बरेली, उत्तर
प्रदेश है आयोजित बहुभाषी नाटक, नृत्य ब

रहता जिंस कारण है ऊच्चे रहत है और अपनी

संगीत प्रतियोगिता है श्रेष्ठतम बाल नाटक के

रुप में पुरस्कृत जिया जा चुका है ।

के पास अपने बच्चों के लिए समय नहीं
मशीनी जिदगी रने परेशान भी । एक दिन

उन्हें अपने खेलने की जगह एक टूटी हुई
कार मिलती है जिसक सहारे वे कल्पनाओं है
ही अपनी हच्छऱआँ करें पूरा करने लगले है ।
नाटक में दिखाया गया है कि use है कारें
उसके जीवन को प्रभावित यती है और करने

है अपने अकेलेपन की पूर्ति करना सीखते है I
M10!!! the ”"3610!

Simanta Phuken has been involved in theatre
front an early age. Over the years he has
participated in several All—Assam one-act play
competitions where he has won many awards
including that of the Best Director and Best
Actor. Mr. Phuken is an established stage—
director and actor and has to his credit works
in radio and television. He has directed several
leading groups of the Assam Mobile Theater.
Some of the plays he has produced are Kanak

Lata, Bhog/ora Kr'ya, Eta Prernar, and Has
Sanfrash. His popular video films include,
amongst others . Karna/ Kunwari, Mon
Phagunar Posua and Jakar.

