Music and dance reviews
Melodious 'l’l ,/
mandolin
abiridranath Tagore
RNagar Cultural Association is conducting mu-

sic programmes every month
punctually, from the last 25
years. It also conducts music
competitions, Harikatha, Namasankeerthana, etc apart

from a music festival, every
year.
The 26th annual music fes-

Mathur Srinidhi on the Vio—
lin and vyasa Vittala 011 khanjari while replying to the sallies of mandolin, maintained
their musical composure and
played with alacrity. But, sen—
ior percussionist Tiruvaruru

Bhakthavatsala supported on
mridanga in his characteristic
and enjoyable manner.

Visually

appealing ३

Four members of theAbhiAssociationwas held last week jatha Dance Ensemble pre-'
A performance by the members of Abhijata Dance Ensemble
with vocal, mandolin perform- sented Hari Hara, blending
ances andNamasankeerthana Bharathanatya and Kathak.
(set to Atta thala) to the archiShiva praise each other quotconcerts at the Sri Vinayaka
Lakshmi and Bhavani tease
ing Kalinga Mardana, Natara— " tecture of a Hindu temple.
Cultural Centre of Vinayaka
spouse of the other to herald
The sacred ‘Beejamantra’ was
ja's dance at Kanaka Sabha,
Devasthana. Another name
supremacy oftheir husbands
Ravana Vadhe etc. Dr Ganesh also used intelligently. Even
for the instrument mandolin
(Hari or Hara). Finally they
the common place ‘Alaripu’
agree that both Hari andHara Avadhani’s composition was
. is ‘U Srinivas’. He was a child
highlighted thegrace and digalso interesting.
aregreat and supreme.
prodigy and a versatile manniﬁed beauty ofRama's style.
Rohini Prabhath, Neha SeFor the second item, the
dolin player, who inspired sevThe main item ofthe
shadrinath, Ashwin Prabhath
eral youngsters to learn man— popular devaranama ofPuevening was ‘Navarasa M0dolin. One such youngster is U » randaraDasa - ‘Yene Bhamini, . and Naveen Heggade - gave
hana’. Different reactions of
better account ofthemselves.
Yene Bhavani’was chosen. In
Rajesh, younger brother ofU
Their nritta was invested with the royal audience in the
the next piece, Vishnu and
Srinivas. I
clan and crisp lines. They per- court, to Baala Krishna, who
In his concert forthe RT
formed with ease and involve- had cometo kill Kamsa - were
‘ Nagar Cultural Association on
performed by Rama. Her porment addingto the visual apThursday, Rajesh presented a
trayalwas neat and pointed,
peal and the choreography
number of well-known cornthe easy ﬂow of one episode
was also neat.
positions in popular ragas.
(Rasa) to another, to depict ,
Drawing his inspiration from
tival ofthe RT Nagar Cultural

Excellence

a popular varna in Mohana,

different ‘Rasa’ making for vi-

rendered in super fast speed.

by AIM, at differentvenues in

The evocative keerthana ‘En—

. the city. Folk music and dance
from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh,

sual delight; Krishna coming
alive each time in the delineation. There was an unmistakable grace that lent a touch
of classto her performance
and the easyway she covered
the stage added a distinct
character to her elegantstyle.

Nepal, 0disha, Rajasthan, '
Kerala, Gujarat,Telangana

Even in the Thumri, Sancharis were so variegated and '

and ofcourse Karnataka —
were not only colourful but
also attractive.
Rama Vaidyanathan, a leading Bharathanatya exponent

eloquent that they were full of
life and involvement. Restrained but irnpactful and
matured Abhinayawith
telling expressiveness, re-

ofIndia, performed on Friday
at the Chowdaiah Memorial
Hall.

from the wings also shared
the honours with the dancer.

he saluted to invocatory God

inAbhinaya

' through ‘Siddi Vinayakam’ in

Shanmukhapriya. ‘Manavyalara’ was in good speed
while ‘Sharavanabhava’ was

The Bengalqu International Arts Festival was organised

tha Muddo’ reminded past
masters of Kamatic music.

’I‘yagaraja's familiar kruthi
' ‘Nagumomu’ was given a detailed treatment. Rajesh's
mandolin is melodious and he
plays with ease and assurance.

But his attention was more on
speed and rhythm-oriented
swaraprastharathan ragaala—

pana and ‘nerv ’. They say
‘speed mars the melody’. Sea-

soned connoisseurs felt that a
slightly slower tempo would ‘
have invested it with greater
grandeur.

t क्यों
xi ,
gm .. «A...

RaVinath I at

IAF

Innovative Rama
Vaidyanathan opened her
dance recital with ‘Sannid—
hana’, in which she compared
the development of Alaripu

ceived admiration. Musicians

Natuvanga - Dr S Vasudevan,
vocal - K Venkateswaran, mridanga — Sumod Sreedharan

andviolin -Viju S Anand.
' 'Mysore V Subramanya

