two exciting plays in a year, has not served the purpose of a permanent
company giving regular shows.
ThOUgh Habib Tanvir’s work is valid and
meaningful in its own way that is besides the point in this context. The
record of the LTG is more unsatisfactory in spite of number of plays it
produces in a year, in spite of the great advantage of having a theatre
of its own, it has failed to leave a mark on Delhi theatre scene. The reasons
are not hard to find. The plays prcduced by it have been inconsequential
and the production mediocre.

The National School of Drama and its repertory perhaps could have
filled this void, for at least it does not lack recources. This it has failed to
do solely because it never has any guiding impulse towards this goal
not even try to become a part of the mainstream of the land.

It does

A real tragedy that has happened in the last few years is that many
significant theatre groups which since 1967 had been the life blood of
theatre in the city have either become inactive or have lost their purpose

of direction.
Some young boys and girls always forming new groups with a lot of
talent and enthusiasm strive hard to make their mark. One such group
which should be mentioned is Non-group which had organised a weeklong festival of six plays. Whether it was a signiﬁcant event in the city may

be debatable, for one may question the choice of the plays, but a more
important question is whether they will survive the initial flush of energy.
For many a time it has happened that for the ﬁrst venture there is an
abundance of enthusiasm, cooperation and energy, but soon after things
begin to look different.
Another healthy and very encouraging sign in the theatre of the city
is the ever increasing interest shown by colleges in dramatic activiti
es.

There is a tremendous quantitative increase in college dramatics. But here
too one feels a certain lack of vision and clarity of purpose. I firmly believe
that if the energy and talent in this area is properly harnessed it can prove to
be the strongest foundation of theatre in the city.
I also believe that this

is possible provided the initiative is taken by the University itself andra.
concerted effort is made to achieve a well-deﬁned goal.
Lastly, I want to say a few words about a dismal aspect of the Delhi
theatre scene and that is about the role of critics, what II have to
say may be
true of many other places but I 'am' primarily talking about Delhi. ३
A'few,

very few, exceptions apart, drama reviewers in Delhi are so ill informed an
d
ill equiped that they fail to perform even one basic function and
that is to
inform the reader intelligently about the plays.
The responsibility can
be equally shared by editors of newspapers for they really don'
t take enough
interest in the quality of the reviews which appear in their
columns.
[Courtesy Hindustan Times]

