y»"

., «.f‘

Four dancers represent the four religions of Islam, Buddhism
Christianity and Hinduism respectively.

I

“SONG OF ASIA” gives a glimpse of what Asia
could beeﬂa continent ready to learn and to teach. to
forgive and to give. Asian renaissance is its theme.
It highlights the hidden treasures of Asia , its faith.
its colour. its basic unity amidst its diversity.
“Song of Asia" was born at the Moral Re—armament centre in Panchgani in the hills of Western lndia
in January 1973. News came of the ceasefire in
Vietnam. Many asked “Will the peace last?"
Asia has seen enough of suffering. Millions have
perished in senseless wars, others live in unjustifiab e
conditions worse than death. It is time for Asia to
rise out of her misery. At Panchgani the conviction
was strengthened that Asia could be known not for
the “blast of bombs or cry of suffering” but for the
secret 0? listening and obeying the still small voice
that speaks in every heart. This secret Asia could
share with the world.
Mahatma Gandhi and many other wise men led
lives based on the dictates of the Inner Voice. The
various scenes of "Song 0? Asia" are based on true
stories where obedience to the whispers of the still
small voice has resulted in miraculous changes in
and around the lives 0? people.
A Harijan mother decides to shed her bitterness:
"I used to say that the bad habits 0? the living will
not break until they die: but from now on I will have
to say, if the bad habits break. the living won‘t have
to die."
A guerilla who is bent upon avenging the death
of his brothers says: “If I can have the courage to kill
a man. can’t I also love him enough to make him a
different man?"
From the war-torn region 0? lndo-China comes
the deepest longing 0? a Cambodian expressed in his
poem, ‘The Smile 0? the Apsara‘:
“ That our people may go back
To the land of lo re and joy
That this may happen
We swear that we will sacriﬁce
Our hate and our suspicion
A t the altar of our pride. "
A Japanese embittered by the American action in
Hiroshima realises that “if we honestly recognise the
wrongs in ourselves we can forgive the wrongs in
others”.
The various roles are portrayed by a cast 0? 50
drawn from 14 countries covering many parts of Asia
from Turkey to Japan, Sri Lanka to Papua New
Guinea. Sensing the need for a new sense of direction in Asian affairs, these men and women have
sacriﬁced personal security and comfort.
Rothay Chantharasy of Laos says, “My country
has been war-torn for over two decades. Our peoples”
sufferings have left many scars. My decision
is not
to cling to my plans and possessions but to use
my

