life to bring healing and lasting peace to lndo-China.”
Rothay‘s father is the Laotian Ambassador in New
Delhi.
Somere Jogo is a teacher from Papua New
Guinea—a country of 1000 tribes and 700 languages.
She is the ﬁrst from her country to have won the
Duke of Edinburgh Award for social work. Talking
about the future of her country which will soon
achieve independence, she says, “We have to deal

with corruption now, if we are to avoid making the
mistakes other Asian and African nations have made
after their independence.”
Sornere is part of an outstanding group of six
from Papua New Guinea.
Osamu Omura comes from Japan. “We have
learnt the hard lesson that even if you have material
progress, peace will never come unless human nature
changes.” Says Omura, “That is why [ apologized
to my father for my hatred towards him.”

The noise and colour of the Asian bazaar

-

Suresh Chandra of Fiji. the director of the play,
expresses the aim of “Song of Asia", “If hate can be
melted, that is one of the most important discoveries

in the world. If people with a compelling human
reason to hate decide to forgive, that is more im“Song of Asia”
portant than nuclear fission.
portrays true stories of how hate has been answered.
There lies its signiﬁcance.
“1 think it is going to surprise Asians and the
world. It is a unique presentation of Asia’s
treasures.“
Every single member of the cast has put things

right in his or her own life as the ﬁrst and basic step.
With clean hands they can take on bigger tasks.
Already their effort has been effective in South
and North-East India. Students in a Nilgiri School
returned books “permanently borrowed” from the
library. A trade union man got reconciled with his
ex-manager. Another respected and experienced
trade unionist said, “We union leaders have a lot of
ambitions. That is probably one of the reasons for
industrial disputes. Another is trade union rivalry.
You have shown how we can be honest and in times
of quiet think of the mistakes we have made and
correct them.”
Many who see “Song of Asia” experiment with
listening to the Inner Voice. The experiment works.
Acted upon they
Unexpected thoughts come.
could lead to very important developments.
Thoughts may come to you which could change
your life or that of your family. It could transform
a difﬁcult situation you face, and mark the beginning

of an endless adventure. What you choose decides
what sort of a future Asia sees.

L EE NA R EG E

A scene from the heart of Asia portraying a revolutionary
leader ’3 struggle
“I’ve got new stories or you, ’ ’says Mama

