Governor Nehru Opens MRA Centre in the North-East
Speaking at the occasion he said:

come to the positive part.

“Why do I regard M RA as a good thing? Because
it is in essence the teaching and not only the teaching,
but the practice of morality. My presence here,
because of the fact that I happen to occupy the position of the head of the State, means three negative
things which are very important.

“The importance is not in the membership 0?
M RA but in the leading ता a good life, by your devotion to the principles of morality, above all by your
regard for what strikes me as the great slogan, if I
may call it, 0? “what is right, not who is right” and
furthermore your practice ता tolerance and your
understanding 0? the other person‘s point 0? view.

"One is that M RA is not a sectarian activity. If
it had been it would have not been possible for me to
be here. It does not connote any kind of membership
of any religious organisation or any organisation that
could be regarded as sectarian. The second is that it
is not in any sense a partisan political activrty; again,
if it had been 1 would not have been here. And the
third is that it is not a subversive organisation. Otherwise, again. 1 would not have been here.

1 think

"You have all my blessings for your good work.
1 hope that the people ता the North-East through your
example, will become more tolerant 0? each other,
more understanding ता each other, more devoted to
the cause 0? humanity and less devoted to the cause
0? self and narrow parochial loyalties and that these
narrow and parochial loyalties will grow to enfold
the \\ hole 0? humanity."

these three negatives are important and now let me

Mr. Shari/ta." G/ms/i Finance Mimster of Wes.“ Bengal.
speak in: at (/18 end of 1:! [trim/nanny of “Song of .1? .sia ' '
in Cult-z Ha, said:
We have just witnessed an Asian drama. It has
been sometimes gay, sometimes sad. sometimes
hilarious, sometimes sombre. But always with a
story to tell—telling us 01 the beauty of Asia, ot our
people, their culture and their past.
Asra has been a great continent. . . and still is.
lt has been the birthplace of most 0? the great faiths
of the world, the borne ता great civilisations.

Asia has always stressed that the problems or
the world are not merely problems 0? economics, not
merely problems 0? politics, but that the fundamental
problems to be solved are the problems of men—
human problems, moral problems, spiritual problems.

That also has been Asia’s message. And it is for this
that these religions and philosophies arose in Asia.

It 15 Asia that can show the way for the world:
the way out 0? strong physics and weak ethics, because

Asia‘s concern has always been with ethics.

Through

this drama we have just seen, the beautiful and moving
stories, the graceful dances, the songs, we have found

again this message of Asia.

events of the 20th century: the resurgence of Asia.
But this resurgence cannot be a resurgence through
hate. It can only be a resurgence 0? love. It is Asia
that can break this chain ता hate and create a chain
of love.
Power does not reside in
Power resides in men‘s hearts.
remaking of man that Asia is
we are to make a new society, it
it. And institutional changes
about a new society.

the barrel of a gun.
It is man, and the
concerned with.
1?
is men who will make
alone will not bring

Institutional changes are necessary, but can
only be brought about by men who are transformed,
men who have seen the vision, men who have changed
themselves.

Only if men change themselves can they change
society.
That is the message of Asia: that love and cornpassion can change the world. Whether in religious
terms it 13 love and compassion, or in philosophic
terms it is the pursuit of truth and goodness, it is

Asia that has sought for that message.

This excellent cast, people from all round Asia,

have told us again of that message which we someIn the 20th century there has been a renaissance

times f'orget.

1 have been moved by this experience.

in Asia, a re-entry of this great continent in the affairs

This splendid Asian drama is a heart-searching ex-

of the world. And when the history of our times
comes to be written, this will be one of the great

moves and cleanses you.

perience, a catharsis, as Aristotle used to say, which

