५ PRAS’TUTI TRU
—

. . .

'I'el V : 3371613

‘ ट्याग आदृ यार '
प्रा

.

॰ ”miniKin

Dear Friend,
I take pleasure in presenting you a brief resume on the
hindi play Doosara Atﬂtyaya we are staging under the banner of
"thanyakar". This play has been written by Ajay Shukla and was awarded
by Sahitya Kala Parishad in 1993. The play is being stagedfor the ﬁrst
time and is being ducted by Shri Ram Gopal quaj, Director National
School ofDrama. The play has recently been published.
Three shows ofthe play will be held at Kmart Theatre , New
Delhi, on ‘
31st. Jan and 1st. Feb 98. at 6 .30 p . m .
The play has only two characters, a man and a woman. At the
superﬁcial level the play appears to be about their extramarital relatonship. The
woman, already long married, meets this man, and the twofeel that they should
be togetherfor ever.‘ But there are social and other practical barriers. Just as
they decide to cross the threshold, an incident throws all their plans into
disarray. They separate, and then meet after several years. But then time and
circumstances have changed. And so have the priorities.
The play takes; you through the intesity of all human emotions- love,
caring, ego, jealousy, guilt and aﬂection.
However, behind this facade of the apparent storyline rests the
philosophy of the play. The protagonist puts forward several fundamental
questions. What is the basis of our value system .7 How do we decide what is
right and what is wrong .7 What is the extent of individual choice or
individual's freedom of action .7
Actions as well as emotions are perhaps an outcome of a situation
over which there is no control of human choice. Rights and wrongs are decided
by time and by relative circumtances. These are perhaps not absolute things
with standard values. Time sets these values as well as our priorities.
1 am sure you will like to share the feelings of the two characters of
the play. It would.be a thought provoking experience.
Thankyou,

M I८८५
”WP/I”

I Iकिं

दैक्याञ्जक्यास्तादृत्यंम्लक्लस्काक्तश्लीछं
DELHI 110 092 0 PH. :

.

