NATYA

A C ADE MY
GOA, DAMAN & DIU

/'

VZhere was an urgent need especially
in Goa, to have some institution that
would foster and co-ordinate in the acti-

vities in the sphere of dramatic art and to
promote, thereby, the .cultural unity of the
Territory. The century-old tradition of the
Marathi Theatre in Goa, is a well-known
fact. The establishment of the Natya Academy for Goa, Daman and Diu, therfore,
was a historical event. It was the fulfilment
of the assurance given to the people by the
Government as enevitable outcome of the
traditional core of the people for dramatic
art. Government, then, took pormpt steps
to give representation to all the interests
on the Academy so that good atmosphere
may prevail, in the field of dramatic art.

A number of dramatic societies in Goa
trying their best to improve the dramatic
art need a proper guidance and help
from the Natya Academy. The Academy
has resolved to provide opportunities for
everwidening interests of their societies.
Under the auspices of the Academy the
dramatic training camp was held in October,
1966 for 21 days, to give scientific kno—
wledge of practical lessons in the different
aspects of the dramatic art. Thirty-four
budding artists availed this opportunity.

From to-day, the 2] st January, 1967
Natya Academy is celebrating the Drama
Festival, in which several regional competi—
tions are
arranged at three different
centres. Ninteeen plays, fourteen
for

Marathi and five for
staged in this Festival.

konkani, will be

The Natya Academy proposes to undertake the following main functions:—
a )

b)

To promote research in the ﬁelds
of Drama and for this purpose,
establish a Library and Museum.
To co-operate with similar Institu-

tions in other States for the furtherance of its objects and for the enri—
0)

chment of Indian culture as a whole.
To encourage the establishment of
theatre centres and promote co-opera—

tion and cc-ordination among all
the different theatre centres.
d) To promote and foster children
theatre movement.
e) To encourage the establishment of
Institutions providing training in
dramatic art and production of
plays.
f) To encourage and assist production
of new plays and develoment of dramatic art in modern lines, by sponsering
drama festivals and awarding prizes&
distinctions.
g) To encourage and assist the production and publication of literature of
Drama or concerning dramatic art.
h) To give recognition and otherwise
assist meritorious organisations in
the field of Drama.
i) To provide for, when necessry, decent
and honourable living to individual
artists of outstanding merit in the
field of Drama.

