The

rstand it:
‘ 1.6)./7 13161, ’__ An attempt to unde
By Prof. D. B. WAGH

BOUT ten years ago, English stage saw
a striking play by name “Waiting for
Godot ” It made a mark : a striking mark,
on the critics as well as the spectators. For
almost a year it created a very acute con-

troversy : what was the theme of the play?
What did the author want to convey
through the play?
Almost nothing was happening in the
play. A Mr. Godot sends a word over and
over again to two others Didot and Gogot
that he proposes to see the latter. And
Didot and Gogot keep on waiting. They
do not know who Godot is or what the
purpose of his visit is. And yet they keep
on waiting: and dialogues develop and the
play develops. Almost nothing else happens. And yet what little happens is catching, interesting and deeply. illuminating:
Slowly and gradually the theme develops:
it makes an impact on the minds of the
audience: a very deep impact and a very
provocating impact also: Mr. Godot, the
central character of the play never appears
on the scene: and yet he fills the whole
atmosphere: from the beginning till the
end. And, the readers and the spectators

possibly gradually develop the avarenes of
the striking fact that probably all of us are
waiting: waiting for a mere nothingness,
just as Didot and Gogot did.
This is an extremely sketchy and imperfect description of a good modern play: a
form to which we have gradually moved
from a simple start: The “New Play”
does not seem to be a re’Volution. At least
to a careful student of the historical development of all our visual arts, it should
appear to be very naturally evolving out of
nothing but our old accepted forms, our

accepted patterns and our accepted Art—
values.
There is firstly a change in the themes
which the new playwrite handles. To a
casual observer these themes may appear
to be breaking strikingly new ground; in
reality, they do not; they have just evolved from out of our traditional themes;
and that too slowly and gradually. It is
true that the complex set—up of the modern
society and particularly the modern urban
society has hastened this movement, this
evolution from the very concrete and physical themes to the mere conceptual and
philosophical ones of the new playwrite.
What has happened in the area of the Play
is quite the same as has happened in the
areas of other Arts : in fact the same has
happened even in Science and its conceptual framework.
One such old theme in Indian Drama,
was for example, that of Ravana running
away with Seeta the wife of Rama. The
theme was too physical: roughly speaking

it involved the actual stealing of a thing:
Such a theme gradually gave its place to a
less physical situation: You only steal the
heart of another’s wife : or there is a conभिक्षु between two for the love of a common
individual: At first, it was a conflict highlighting only one “emotion” To make it
more piquant, the confiict was shown to
involve also other emotions: the conflict
was made more colourful, though not al-

ways more actual, by showing the fall of
good men and at times helpless collapse 0 f
prized values as a mere coincidence of unavoidable circumstance—a tragic irony of
unfortunate events.
Even here the theme always developed

