around circumstance and situations—tragic,
strange, comic, helpless or unfortunate
situations. But the later playwrites broke
further new ground. The conflicts they
depicted were not results of strange circumstances: they were conflicts in which

great and powerful minds clashed: eonflicts
in which strong characters clashed: conflict in which clashed reactions to men and
their ideologies.
And slowly the artist moved away
from physical situations; he even moved
away from conflicting mental situations in
which their characters of flesh and blood
were moving. He gradually moved into a
new brave world of his own creation, a
whole world of nothing but ideas. He
revelled in pitting one idea against another:
he revelled in creating characters to represent these ideas: Mr. Samuel Buckett’s
Godot was one such character And there
are so many others living in this world of
ideas, this world from which the new
artist not only draws his inspiration but
also his characters, his situations, his conflicts, in short the entire range of his
themes.
And thus the new artist has moved
away from us: his world is a new world,
a world of ideas of his own creation or the
creation of his friends. He speaks in the
language of this new world: he writes in
this new language; he thinks in this new
language: his conceptions and his creations
are all from this new world.
Not all of us understand this language
because we have not learnt it: This language is a language of new problems and
of new, and bold- values. To understand it,
we must consciously learn it. It is one of
the worst popular misconceptions that there
is no initiation necessary to understand a
picture or a poem or a play. As long as

the picture, or the play was from a world
close to the humdrum world in which we
live and move, we could understand the
picture, or the play. But if the playwrite
lives in one world and the spectator or the
reader in another, the two cannot appreciate each other.
To understand even the routine con-

cepts of Science or Philosphy, one goes
through an elaborate schooling. Can one
then, with wisdom, expect to be in a position to understand or appreciate a Modern
Painting or a Modern Play, with no schooling, no effort or no genius ?

