From Nabodoy Costhi Outﬁt
On the auspicious occasion of our club’s 5th Annual Day Function we take
the liberty to present before you a full length drama BITANGSHA written by a
renowned dramatist and actor Shri Ajitesh Banerjee who adapted the story from
the original script “Arsenik and Oldess” written in English by Joseph Kaselring.
We have tried our best to give you the best of our performance, as in the past,
and hope it will entertain you all through.
We are also happy to present before you the famous and world renowed
pahtomime artist

Shri

Jogosh

Dutta

on 1 st and 2nd Sept., 1973 under NG
Sponsor cultural co-operation programme. We initiated the step in this direction
because the pantomime as an art is quite famous and popular cultural programme
in other cities which has not found the proper place in Delhi. We wish to

introduce this new art in order to popularise and

raise the standard of the

different aspect of art and culture. As you may be quite aware Shri Jogesh Dutta

has received aclaim, appreciations and praise from different parts of the world for
his super performance in the art of mime and communication of expressions
through excellent postures.

Cultural activity is considered to be the very basis on which the whole
civilization rests. This important aspect has been given new dimensions by different groups and agencies of this mankind. Many have dedicated their life and
energy for the upliftment of culture through different times and ages. But side by
side many factors have also jeopardised and agravated the smooth and healthy
functioning by way of constant confrontation. Theatre in the past was the only
source of enjoyment but in modern times its scope has ﬂourished extensively in

different aspects of life/- particularly in political and socio/economic conditions,
mass enlightenment and many other important aspects related to it. Theatre
served as a good media and through this expression of thought and action started

ﬂowing in from different directions. Culture is a sacred aspect in our way of life.
In actual fact it represents our socio/economic environment in and around us. In
a modern theatre we see a universal exhibition of different new ideas and problems facing a particular situation in a modern society. Various new techniques

and methods adopted have also gone a long way in popularizing theatre which,
distorted
in fact, is popular in itself. For fulfilling selﬁsh aims it has been given
from the
and ugly face which, in fact, is a negation and a complete departure

essential principles which govern culture. This sort of hypocritic mental attitude

