should be denounced in absolute terms by all the lovers of cultural heritage.
Distortions, with the deliberate motive of attaining limited standards are dangerous. It apparently turns into an immaterial, aimless ends which has not relevance

with culture in this present day society. But still we see this type of aimless
approaches operating from diﬁerent quarters with diﬁ'erent motives.
I also take the liberty of appraising you the activities of our unit in a nut-

shell.

For the ﬁrst time, since the inception of our club we participated in

outside competitions. On December, 6, 1972 we took part in the All India Full
Length Drama Competition organised by the Bengalee Club and Young Men’s
Association, Lucknow. We performed CHOPE ADALAT CHOLCHHE in the
competition and Shri Jayanta Das of our unit bagged the Best Actor Award.
Subsequently, on December 29th, 1972 we participated in the XIII All India One
Act Bengali Drama Competition. We are very much proud to let you know the

performance of LOUHA MANAB as our entry in the said competition. We
won triple crown in this competition, in addition an award of certiﬁcate of merit
for best commendable acting. The prizes being the BEST PRODUCTION, BEST

DIRECTION, BEST ACTOR, CERTIFICATE FOR BEST COMMENDABLE
ACTING. The respective members winning the above coveted prizes are :
Best Production

Nabodoy Gosthi

Best Direction

Sakti Mukherjee

Best Actor

Jayanta Das

Certiﬁcate for Best

Tapas Chanda

Commendable Actng

This year on 18th February, 1973 we also participated in the All India All
Language Short-Play Competition organised by the Allahabad Natya Sangha,
Allahabad. We staged LOUHA MANAB and bagged certiﬁcate of merit for
commendable production and acting.

In addition to this we have also performed our dramas at different places at
the invitation of different organisations. Our plays became very popular and
received felicitations and appreciations from different quarters. We also received
laurals and praise from the critics of the local newspapers and journals.

The

popularity of our plays CHOPE ADALAT CHOLCHHE and LOUHAMMANAB was, of course, due to its being the successful and realistic play having
skill in individual acting, direction and team work. Besides dramas, we have also
arranged excursions for the entertainment of our club members to foster greater
understanding, co-operation and uniﬁed thought which are the essential ingredients for smoth and effective functioning of a well knit unit.

Like other cities, in Delhi also, we have the opportunity to witness the

various cultural activities that come up from different organisations and units in

