About the Troupe
The Departmental Drama Troupe of the Song and Drama Division came into existence
eight years ago and its performances are not new to Delhi audience. The Troupe stages plays
only in Hindi.

Its performances have been equally appreciated in other parts of India. Particular
mention may be made of the Troupe’s visit to the South and more recently to Rajasthan when
its performances won laurels from the press and public alike. The Troupe has so far presented
more than six hundred performances in various parts of the country.
About the Play

The three act comedy “HE HI DEWAS JATEEL” in Marathi has been written by
three authors.—

M. G. RANGNEKAR, VASANT SABNIS, G. D. MADGULKAR

All the three are well-known humourists in Marathi literature. They give their best
in each act constituting a hilarious comedy. This version is a Hindi adaptation of the
original Marathi and naturally certain modiﬁcations of details were made.
The story is woven round a rich family, the earning member being far away in Iraq.
The other members of the family—the mother, two sons and two daughters are whiling away
their time in luxury and lethargy. Sethsaheb, the head of the family is minting money in his
business at Iraq and his heirs, especially the two sons are at a loss to know what to do in life,

as it never occurs to them that they are ever required to work for their livelihood. A shrewd
doctor who has been employed by Sethsaheb to take care of the health of his family, watches
the life of all the members and along with the weekly health-report, keeps Sethsaheb in
touch with the affairs of the family. One day Sethsaheb returns suddenly from Iraq and to
the astonishment of all, announces that he has distributed all his money in charity and has
closed his business.

He behaves in strange manner.

As all the servants of the house have

gone on strike, he orders his wife and children to do all household duties, which is a very
strange experience for them all. The servants after some days, return and beg for jobs, which
he offers, with the condition that they can stay employed but will be strictly prohibited from
doing any work.

They soon get tired of the idle life as much as the two sons who have now

started doing independent business and have discovered the pleausure of work.

And

one day Sethsaheb suddenly receives a telegram from his Manager at Iraq that his
presence is badly required. His deception is exposed, yet, his idea to let all the people in

his house know the signiﬁcance of work, is successful.

