What do South Extension,
Greater Katlash,
Hauz Khas, Model Iown
& Rajouri Garden
have 1n common?
The DLF stamp of development.
DLF pioneered. real estate development in Delhi in
the eariy 505 at a time when the postindependence population had caused alarming
pressures on available housing in the crty.

ourrose to the occasion and developed as may
as 21 residential colonies of South Extension.
Greater Kailash. Hauz Khas. Model Town and
Repuri Garden. Ea'ch equipped with a complete
intrastructure ol realities... shopping centres.
schools. Cinema halls. places or waship and more
These Colonies are the pride of the capital. a
standing testimony to DLF's comprehensive under standing at community needs that has enabled it to
give its colonies that class and corntort that are its
tnique hallmarks.
Today, history is repeating itsell in Delhi as once
again, population pressures have reached alarming
proportions. And once again, DLF is engaged in a
mammoth eﬂort to a55ist the Government in
achievmg its ००18०!।४०5 or rapidly developing the
regions within the DMA a. HCR to ease the pressure
0'! Delhi By developing one 01 the largest
lOWDShIDs श्या 0’ Delhi. DLF Outab Enclave.
Independent homes. apartments and commercial

comm.

DLF Outab Enclave is a perfectly planned minipolis
with a complete intrastructure ot laCilitles —
shopping centres, clubs. schools. hospitnts. places
ot worship and more Even security arrangements
and sub5idised trarispon Saientilically planned
and now being developed at a rapid pace so that
peOple can move their workplace and homes as
soon as passable to an open, cleaner environment
DLF Outab Enclave is the lirst in a series ol several
such protects proposed to be undertaken by DLF in
various metropolitan Cities 0! India — all conserved
with the same guiding principle -— oi bringing more
housmg within comfortable. attordable and livable
reach ol more people. By decongesling cities and
moving growing populations to open. cleaner
environments

DLF
UNIVERSAL
LIMITED
दुहुँ हुंहुँहूँझेहँह्ररु;

d '

