THE MYSTERY OF THE MIDNIGHT KNOCK
, the new theatre group in town
ख-हैं-ले-म्य-सय' by Alyque Padamsee and
' ’Renu Roy among others, made its debut

with an Ariel Dorfman play, originally titled
Death and theMaiden. Padamsee brought this
South American political thrillerto GD Birla
Sabhagar on October 31. The MidnightKnock,
presented by ARKS in association with
Spandan, was partnered by t2.
Paulina Salas was once taken political
prisoner and even ﬁve years later continues to
relive the atrocities inﬂicted upon her. She is
still disturbed and displays all the symptoms of
paranoia. Interestingly enough, her husband,
Gerardo, a lawyer, has been asked by the prime
minister to join the committee which will aim
to bring to justice those involved in said
atrocities.
Gerardo has a ﬂat tyre at night and is
driven home by a gentleman Who’d been kind
enough to stop. He returns to the house the
next night and we know him to be Dr Miranda.
Paulina knowshim too; she’s certain the
doctor was one of her prime tormenters ﬁve
years ago. She remembers his voice, his skin
and the Schubert he played before inﬂicting
any suffering.
The play spirals into a storm of conﬂict.
While Paulina wants to extract a confession
from the man and kill him, Gerardo believes in
the course of law. Even in the end, we are
unsure if DrMiranda, now imprisoned by his
once hostage, is really guilty of the crimes he is
accused of.
Alyque Padamsee headed a discussion at
the end of The Midnight Knock to discuss its
relevance in modern times. “I refuse to be told
What to eat and What to drink. What’s next?
we’ll betold What to dream?” he said.

Text: Ramona Sen
Pictures: Sayantan Ghosh

Paulina (Soﬁe Moulick) reminds her
husband (Raj Banerjee) that with a
gun they are equals and she is not
about to untie the trussed up Dr
Miranda (Keshav Roy) until she has
a confession.
It was a courageous play.
I was impressed by
Keshav Boy, who had a
difficult role, tied up on
stage for so long. Plays
like this make you think. In

reality, there’s no way of knowing who’s
wrong and who’s right —
, choreographer-dancer

. tom-116mm in a
Situation where the
tables have turned.

A very contemporary and relevant play. Keshav Roy was _ , ,
brilliant. I was really impressed by the post-interactive ,हूँ :
session. That’s a new concept. It compelled me to put
on mythinking cap about what freedom really means , 7.
these days -—
, teacher Ashok Hall
Girls’ Higher Secondary School
I was excited about this maiden production by
Alyque Padamsee’s newgroup. While the actors
were great, I thought the script was more relevant
to the South American politics it was written for —
, businessman

