Arter leaving the teaching profession, he went to the United
ﬁtetes in 1945 where he wrote several resounding articles.
his play, "Les mouches" made a hit; his book "Being and Nothing~

ness" had a great influence over the atmOSphere of war-time
\ ‘0

‘0

France and at the time of the liberation ° and with the
publishing of "Les chemins de la Liberté" he became the
leader of the new Left, which propounded a new philOSOphy
and new ethics knovm as existentialism.
Those years which brought great changes in the life
of Sartre were also very fruitful years.
_
he for plays, apart from "Huis—Clos", he wrote "Les
Mouches" in 1943, "Morts sans sépulture" and "la P. respectueuse"
were written in 1946.
The play which we are presenting today is situated
outside space and time and expresses some of the well—defined

concers of Sartre around the year 1944.

The impossibility of

communicating with others is the central theme of “this—C105",

he successively presents the various aspects of our relations
with others as follows (moral,

intellectual,

sexual

‘elations).

The main cha‘acteristic of the Sartrian hell is the
violent distortion of the ratio of time to space (maximum
time—eternity — minimal spaCL-a room) which is experienCed
along with equally distorted human relationships.
In this
play, the duo has been replaced by a trio and consequently, the

normal conservation of two people facing each other has been
replaced by a dangerous discourse — delivered by someone
looking askance

at the

two others.

(When

talking to someone

in the presence of another person, this witness looks askance to
us and forms a judgment.)
Therefore, the moral and psychological dimensions of
"Huis—Clos" are defined by the imbrications of those three
origanizing structures : sequestration, death and the trio.

151122:
० sis
The characters shown into a sitting-room by an
attendant, and he is surprised not to find any instruments of
torture हुं but he soon loses his self—control and views with
horror his condition as a prisoner expelled beyond the limits

of Time and Space, without the prospect of finding rest or
COming into

contact with the external world.

While alone, he gives way to despair हैं then enters.
a lady followed by the sane attendant हैं as she believes he is
॰
Her
an executioner, he gives his name, "Garcin, author".
conflnad
are
who
two
The
t.
confiden
very
seems
she
and
name is Ines
together in the same room, soon become unbearable to each
other.

Later on a smart young lady is also shown in. At
first, she is frightened but she soon recovers her confidence.
She gives her name as Estelle दु her behavious is affected.
While Ines takes a keen interest in Estelle as soon she enters,
Estelle orcfers to talk to Garcin who melancholically relates
his life as a journalist, and also wonders how the three of
them have been brought together (Ines, a post—office clerk,
and Eetel.e, a society lady).

