A BOUT O U R SE L V E S
The achievements of the Three Arts Club in the field
of drama should now be fairly

known to drama lovers in the Capital.

Besides being engag
has unceasingly worked for expansion of the theatre move ed in its own productions, the Club
ment by actively assisting other groups
in Delhi and in neighbouring towns and cities in the
production of plays.
During the last fifteen years of its existence, the Club has produ
ced more than a score of
plays. Notable among them being, Faisfa, Zamana, Hama
m C'aon, Ufj/zcm and D/Iong. The play
which you witness this evening—UNDER SECRETARY——is
the Club’s latest production and IS
the first play to be staged in the Delhi Natya Sangh’s Annu
al Drama Festival (1958-59).
.
Realising the need of a week-end theatre in the Capital and
in order to हुत्माहै an
Impetus to drama activity, the Club organised in December
-January, 1938-57 a Drama Festival
of its own five plays.
The venture

was

widely

acclaimed

and proved

to be very popular,
As already said the Club’s activities, as far as staging of plays
is concerned, have not been
confined to the Capital alone. Extensive tours
have also been undertaken by the Club. At
the invitation of the Army authorities the Club made
trips to _lammu and Kashmir in 1951 and
In I955 on the request

of the Ministry of lnformation and Broadcasting the
Club staged I the
play ‘Hamam Gaon’ on the occasion of All-lndia Congress
Committee Sessions held at Ajrner
and Amritsar. The Club has

also staged plays at Meerut, Solan and Sirnla.

While actively interesting itself in drama activity the Club
has been aware of the role
that art can play in reducing human misery, and it
has contributed towards raising funds for
charitable and deserving causes. ln I957 the Club
collected more than Rs. 6,000 for the
Tuberculosis Fund of the Care and After-care Comm
ittee of Ward Nos. 4 and 5. Again, on the
25th

May, l 958 a show of today’s play—UNDER SECRETAR
Y—was reserved for the same cause.
In October l 957 the Club staged three different plays to
help the Lok Kalyan Samiti raise funds
for a Mobile Dispensary for health work in Delh
i’s slum areas.
The Club has had the privilege of having
alities as the President of lndia and the Prime amongst its audience such distinguished personMinister and has enjoyed the goodwill and
encouragement of drama lovers. The Club hopes
that the Patrons will continue to encourage
it in its endeavour to revive the art of drama and
to place it on a sound footing in the
Capital city of India.—-

R. M. KAUL, Honorary General Secretary.

