A Note From the Director
The premise of Manuel Puig’s celebrated novel Kiss of the Spider Woman (originally
published in Spain in I 976) continues to provoke questions. Two men, a homosexual and
a Marxist, unlikely companions at the best of times, learn to meet through their sexual and
political differences. Ironically, it is the State, the very source of their oppression, that
provides them with the possibility of meeting.
As the prison cell becomes the site of fiction, we experience the different levels by which
the ’real’ is mediated through fantasy, delirium, a love letter, among other rhetorical
modes which are consciously highlighted in this adaptation of the text.
At first my impulse was to work towards an almost hybrid-like blending of the men and
their ideologies, but I also realized that Molina and Valentin need to retain their identities.
The homosexual and the Marxist are not necessarily interchangeable. They have their own
languages, their own politics, their own strategies of transformation. But they are also
capable of participating in a common struggle in their own ways.
Doing Kiss of the Spider Woman in India poses particular challenges not least
because homosexuality has yet to be confronted with any depth of seriousness on the
Indian stage. And Marxism in the alleged aftermath of the Cold War continues to have
significance for many of our activists. In the dialectic of these ideologies, one is caught
between Molina and Valentin without wanting to valorise or dismiss the ’reality’ of one or
the other.
Many questions have emerged through the rehearsals not least the process by which
categories like ’Marxist’, ’homosexual’, ’man’, ’woman’ are constructed. What are the

variables within these categories? What are the constants? What are the spillages
between them? From whose point of view are they shaped? Why are they silenced?
The raison d'étre for this particular production goes back to an episode from our
largely undocumented sexual history in India, which has now acquired for me the ’reality’
of fiction. In a crowd of men surrounding a vendor selling aphrodisiacs, whose sales pitch
in an open field provides the pretext for pornography, the entire site becomes a
masturbatory space. Two men are caressing each other, at first furtively, then more
openly. Two ordinary men, not ’upper class westernized’ men who are generally
associated with the ’vice’ of homosexuality in India. Just as these men begin to kiss each
other tentatively, at that very moment, plainclothes policemen emerge from the depths of
the crowd. They grab the men by the scruffs of their necks and drag them away to the
local thana.
What is the politics of two men kissing in public? What is the politics of two actors kissing
in a make-believe prison? And what is the politics beyond this privileged space of theatre
in the prison-house we call life?

