‘A student of Shantiniketan

having learnt at 'I'agore’s

MRINALINI SARABHAI

feet. she has taken to the

poet’s works in a spirit of
dedication.’
— The Times of India, Delhi

Mrinalini Sarabhai, India’s celebrated dancer and choreographer, has
achieved an international reputation that is unmatched by any
contemporary Indian classical dancer. The syntax of her creativity
meditates between a moral commitment to traditional form and the
desire to claim one’s own experiments as unique, unrepeatable. This
interface of technical mastery and creative expressionism achieves
a
profoundly versatile language of the body—simple, eloquent, visually
inspiring.

The creative anarchy ofher essentially modern style is convincingly
disciplined by the taut orthodoxy of her classical technique, learnt
from her guru Sri Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai. The result is an exalted
visual statement combining almost fanatical purity 'of vision with
modish formal experiments. An alchemy of skills, almost
unparalleled: the result of both rigorous training and eclectic
learning. This manifests itself even more clearly in her choreography,
where she has attempted innovations that have increased the
vocabulary ofdance. It is no wonder that she is ‘a legend in her lifetime ’
and has been called the ‘Empress’ and ‘High Priestess of Indian
Dance’.
As a critic wrote recently, ‘The festival attained a high water-mark
of excellence due to the divinely inspired dance that Mrinalini created
in the truest of traditions of Bharata Natyam. When she came on stage
Mrinalini was the very picture ofheavenly dancer in the court ofIndra.
In her Ratnamalika Varnam, she is able to give free reign to her
choreographic imagination and reveal the true meaning of Bhava,
Raga and Tala. Such flawless perfection is rarely seen and, what is
more, rarely acheived. It was not just the body of the dancer th
at
danced, but the mind, soul and intellect.’

TRAINING
Mrinalini began her training in Bharata Natyam at an early age under
Sri Muthukumaran Pillai of Mannarokoil and later under the gurus of
South India including Sri Ellappa of Conjeevaram and Sri
Chokkalingam Pillai. She became a favourite pupil ofthe great master
of Bharata Natyam, Sri Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai of Pandanallur,
with whom she studied until his death in 1954, imbibing the purest
form of traditional Bharata Natyam.
She underwent specialised studies of ‘Abhinaya’ and the
‘Kuravanjis’ from Mylapore Gauriamma and Andalamma of Tanjavur.
She had the distinction of being the only Indian to be taught by
Prince Tedjoekoesoemo, the brother of the Sultan ofJakarta, who was
the teacher of the most ancient school of Javanese dancing. Here she
exhibited her dancing before the Sultan. In Java, at that time, dancing

was a prerogative of the royal family; Mrinalini was the only foreigner
ever allowed to dance with the princesses.
From Java, she went to New York, where she took a six-month

नटरंग प्रतिष्ठान

course in acting and stage technique at the American Academy of
Dramatic Art. On her return to India she continued her performance of
Bharata Natyam and also studied Kathakali with Sri Kunju Kurup, who
lived for many years teaching in her home.
Mrinalini came into close contact with Rabindranath Tagore at his
school in Shantiniketan and took leading parts in many of his
dance-dramas. Her emphasis on purity of tradition and classical
technique in her solo Bharata Natyam recitals were received with
acclaim, and she began to compose new items and stress the classical
religious atmosphere for the recitals, not only through her deep
understanding and infinite ability to communicate, but also through

