‘We have had many Tagore
dance-dramas during this
festival in all sorts of styles.
Mrinalini Sarabhai’s dancedramas stand out as the most
accomplished. most carefully
thought-out actions, full of
originality and based on
strict classical training.’
— The Statesman.

costumes, lighting and stage decor. Through long years of study she
has mastered the art and evolved her own technique known as the
‘Darpana’ style which stands out for its technical perfection and
aesthetic sensitivity.

CHOREOGRAPHY
From the beginning, Mrinalinis’s need to express herselfand her own
ideas in new forms took hold of her. At first she experimented with
classical styles, changing the content dramatically, and using it to
express contemporary ideas and concerns. Soon however she started
creating a new genre of dance moving more towards the abstract.
Her first experiment ‘Manushya—The Life of Man’, became a
classic of Indian dance and heralded a new path for dance
compositions. The critic ofthe Statesman wrote: ‘I cannot think, in the
whole repertoire of all the Indian dancing troupes, ofa modern ballet,
comparable in perfection and beauty to ‘Manushya’. Based on the
Kathakali technique, it contains innovations so carefully introduced
with such exquisite taste that these modernities fit into the general
design to perfection. The mime, of which there is a great deal, makes
every scene intelligible to the untrained audience, and the effect of

this beautifully told story of Man, from birth through childhood to
death and return into limbo, is both dramatic and moving.’
7
The beautiful lyrical dance -drama, set to instrumental music,
‘Matsya Kanya’ followed. ‘No other Indian artist,’ wrote the critic ofthe
Dancing Times, London, ‘has made such successful attempts to wave
the unlimited vocabulary ofthe Hindu dance without losing something
of the ﬁne artistry.’
‘She is not only a genius at dancing but with each ballet, she has
created an idea that is valuable to the whole dance form’, wrote the
critic of India News, London.

Mrinalini continued in her search for expression by intergrating
and experimenting, so as to make the classical dance comprehensible
without compromising aesthetic standards.

One of her efforts with poetry in dance was to give visual‘ form to
Kant’s famous Gujarati poem ‘Vasant Vijayam’. Then came a full length
three hour Kathakali dance-drama ‘ ‘Nalakhyan’ with the text by
Premanand. For North Indian audiences, ‘Bana Yuddham’ was danced

with the lyrics in Hindi. Especially for the Tagore Centenary Year, new
interpretations in Bharat’a Natyam and Kathakali were given to
‘Bhanusinher Padavali’ and ‘Tasher Desh’to the accompaniment of
music in the original Bengali. ‘We had many Tagore dance-dramas
during this festival in all sorts of styles. Mrinalini Sarabhai’s
dance-dramas stand out as the most accomplished, most carefully
thought-out actions, full of originality and based on strict classical
training,’ wrote the critic ofthe Statesman. The Times of India, Delhi,

also commented, ‘A student of Shantiniketan having learnt at Tagore’s
feet, she has taken to the poet’s works in a spirit of dedication.’
A new interpretation of the ‘Geeta Govindam’ included another
ancient technique of Bhagavata Mela Natakam of Kuchipudi, Andhra
Pradesh. In New York, in 1961, Ruth St Denis wrote in Theatre Arts, ‘In

one stunning gesture, she lifts the use ofthe dance from the ordinary to
the sublime. As a cultural ambassador, she is worth fifty statesmen.’
A full length dance-drama, written by the Maratha ruler, Shahji of

Tanjore in Khadiboli, was staged and set to Carnatic music. “This
Seventeenth century musical drama soaked in religious atmosphere is
a marvellous blending of Carnatic music with verses in Khadiboli; the
whole piece has been created with vision and knowledge,’ wrote an
Indian Express reviewer.
The classical production in 1968 of ‘Silapadikaram’ in Gujarati,

