t
fec
per
of
e
mpl
exa
e
tru
‘a
and
,
art’
of
ece
-pi
ter
mas
‘a
as
led
hai
was
integration and superb entertainment’. Other rare pieces staged by

‘She is not only a genius at
dancing but with each ballet.
she has created an idea that
is valuable to the whole
dance form.’
— India News, London

Darpana, such as ‘Vikramorvasiyam’, ‘Meghaduta’, ‘Sarabhendra

ki
lla
‘Pa
’,
dha
rud
Ani
ha
‘Us
,
ka’
ari
his
‘Ab
’,
wri
‘Go
’,
nji
ava
Kur
a
pal
Bhu
Seva Prabandham’, ‘Valli Kalyanam’, ‘Yasovarman’, ‘Nalakhyana’,
‘Chitrangada’, ‘Radha Bansidhar Vilasa Nataka’, ‘Shiva Tandavam’,
‘Malavikagnimitra’, ‘Krishnagaan’, ‘Prahalada Charitam’,

‘Pancharatna Kritis of 'I’hyagaraja’, ‘Ashwatthama’, ‘StreePriyadarshini’, ‘Bhakti’, ‘Bhama Kalapam’, Maricha Vadham’,
‘Ahimsa’, ‘Kiratarjuniyam’, ‘Mohini Bhasmasura’, ‘Sampoorna
Ramayanam’ and ‘Nataraja Vandanam’, have explored the entire
gamut of Indian dance, drama and music.
‘Mrinalini Sarabhai’, exclaims a French critic, ‘puts colour, rhythm
and movement to the service of birth, love, death, worship and play,
with an indescribable beauty and purity. Seeing her, is seeing the
genius and spirituality of an ancient time recreated in perfect
harmony.’
‘In a production of Kalidasa’s ‘Kumara Sambhavam’ Mrinalini
based the entire choreography on the tenets of the ancient treatise of
drama, the ‘Natya Shastra’ following the rituals and conventions ofthe
treatise. ‘Seeing ‘Kumara Sambhavam’ is seeing the genius and
spirituality of an ancient time recreated in perfect harmony’, wrote a
critic (1981).
Of the ‘Vidhi Natakam’, a seven hundred-year-old Andhra street
theatre form combining shadow puppets and dance, the critic of The
Times, London (1980), says “I’he puppets are delicious with their
intricately patterned costumes. The dancers seem to have great fun
manipulating them in between their own appearances from behind the
screen. A fascinating experience indeed !’
In 1969, the premier ofa composition on suicide called ‘Memory is a
Ragged Fragment of Eternity’, in Bharata Natyam technique, was
enthusiastically received by audiences. “I'his touching theme inspired
by the appalling suicide rate ofwomen in India, dealt tellineg with the
life of a woman being uprooted in marriage and her suffering in her

Through “Mira”. showing the
ecstacy of suffering that
leads an individual to
salvation and complete
surrender, Mrinalini has as
no other dancer before told
the story of an individual’s
life with complete purity of
technique. She dances with
the truth of being and the
sensitivity of a great artist.’
— A London Critic.

new world, but never descended to the morbid. It had intellectual force

and dedicated artistic purpose and was profoundly exciting’, wrote the
critic of Hindu ( 1969). An editorial in the Indian Express called it the
fi rst experiment in dance that spoke boldly ofa social evil that haunted
women everywhere (1971).
‘Mira’, a composition based on the Bharata Natyam technique, tells
of the search of the individual for enlightenment, "I’hrough ‘Mira’,
showing the ecstacy of suffering that leads an individual to salvation
I and complete surrender, Mrinalini has, as no other dancer before, told

the story of an individual’s life with complete purity of technique. She
dances with the truth of being and the sensitivity of a great artist,’
wrote a London critic.
The relevance of arts and specially dance to the prevailing world
conditions has always been a bone of contention with the “committed
progressive”. Mrinalini has proved beyond doubt that the room for
versatility even inside the frame-work of our traditional arts is
immense,’ wrote a Delhi critic in 1982.

As the critic of ‘Combat’, Paris wrote, ‘Her femininity and precision
makes La Sarabhai the ideal Bharata Natyam dancer. What a
wonderful technique in every movement of body and limb ! What
richness in every gesture ! What a coordination, what a deep unity
between body and soul !’
The first dancer to use the philosophy of Tantra in dance, she
choreographed and danced in ‘Maya and the Disciple’ which had its
world premier at the Champs Elysee Theatre, Paris, in 1954.
In Germany, a critic wrote, ‘the power and ecstacy of all Indian
m

thought was portrayed by India’s greatest dancer in ‘Maya and the

