Writing in the ‘National Herald’ the eminent writer P.D. 'I‘andon
says: “The beauty and purity ofher style makes people realise that art
has no barrier and it is no wonder that she is adored wherever she
dances. If one wants to know Mrinalini, one should see her dancing.
Her entire spirit is reflected in it. Her beliefs, her faith, are woven into

the fabric of her compositions, for she believes that the artist is the
truest link between the outer and the inner worlds, the perceptible and
the imperceptible. She is the glory of Indian Art.’
As the critic ofthe Statesman, Delhi, wrote: ‘What distinguishes the

dance art of Mrinalini Sarabhai from that of the other exponents of
classical Indian dance is the insistence on creative interpretation and
the use of pure dance techniques to explore the elemental issues
concerning man and his environment. In this sense, Mrinalini’s dance
is at once modern in theme and ancient and traditional in style and
form .’

“In her creations, Mrinalini has looked critically again at
movement idioms, retained the Kathakali style while dispensing with
its cumbersome costume, used only chanting, drumming and spells of
silence instead of full-ﬂedged music with orchestra and lyric. And in
her themes, she has sought to recover dance’s ancient role ofsituating

man in his cosmic ambience, making him belong to the world as a
divinely designed order or system, not with the old, naive innocence
which has for ever been lost but with the knowledge, gained through
the centuries since, transmuted into wisdom. References to three

choreographic creations can help to sketch an outline of this new
vision. ‘Surya’ remembers the ancient Indian hymns and rites to the
Sun, but has also assimilated the import of the myth of Prometheus
and the new insights of ecology. ‘Revalation’ brings out the truth that
the endless conquest of the world really leads to the sustained defeat
of the self. ‘Mira’ expresses the insight that, for the victory ofthe self,
its transcendental dimension and the constraints of its conditioned
incarnate existence have to be harmonized. Here Mrinalini used the
brilliant choreographic idea of having two Miras go through the same
actions separaely till the integration in the end.
Over the centuries, the problem has become far more sombre for
women. Episodes of burning brides who do not bring adequate dowry
are becoming frequent. They inspired Nilima Sheikh to do a series of
paintings and Mrinalini to create ‘Memory is a Ragged Fragment of
Eternity’. Here she uses the Chollukettu of Bharata Natyam, the
relentless beat of percussive syllables, to record the mounting
explosions of greed, jealousy and hatred in the husband’s household
which at last drive the wife to suicide. Atrocities against the
underprivileged, in particular the incidents at Ranmalpur inspired
‘Chandalika’ where she used not music but only wordless
articulations. Endless lines of homeless wanderers, thousands of
children maimed, starving multitudes in the midst of plenty; these
features are increasingly becoming characteristic of the Indian scene
and ‘Parashakti’ was her choreographic response, its intensity made
further acute by the ﬂaming verses of Subramanya Bharati. ‘Ganga’ is
on pollution and its message is that without an inner cleansing, no
project can cleanse the waters of the earth and restore their lifesupporting role.
In the world of creative talent today in India, Mrinalini Sarabhai is

one of the most distinguished personalities. Poet, playwright and
novelist, she is above all a dancer and the Darpana Academy of
Ahmedabad she founded and directs has not only modulated tradition
क्योंम्पूश्यष्ठ also played a role in integrative

rinqvgtéz’f प्रतिंष्ठश्र्व
1

टु
us.ng

है

“W” ३ 'है

कि;

.
,
5215

.~-

‘AN AFFIRMATION OF WHOLENESS’

. A
५ HAITकि NY
_ KRISHN. A (,

