Satire on a song I
AmulyLGopalakrishnanEL‘

/

ti mesg roup.com

/‘
I
isi Taisi Democracy.

the new comedy col-

lective that brings together Sanjay Rajou_ ra. Rahul Ram and
.
Varun Grover, embarks on a nationwide tour in Sep
tember, but they have already hit

the big time.
‘Mere Samnewali Sarhad Pe‘,
their song about the India-Pakistan relationship, recently went
viral. It hit two sweet spots, com—
bining neighbourly sentimental—'
ity with a hummable tune. A Pa.
kistani army man responded in
kind, with a video called ‘Aisi
Taisi Hypocrisy’.
But Rajoura, Grover and Ram
are not in the people-pleasing
business. Their comedy takes on
caste, the oppressive weight of
family and patriarchy, the sharp
edges of capitalism . They bring
their mordant take to events like
the Muzaifarnagar violence, the
porn ban, the ghar wapsi canipaign. They take on Arvind Kejri—
wal, Narendra Modi and Rahul
Gandhi. Unlike other comics in
India who cautiously step away

A new comic collective does aisi tatsi

ofstandup stereotypes

from live politics, Aisi Taisi Democracy draws its entire energy
from it.
‘
It sees itself as a third space
in the comedy scene -- it doesn‘t
reﬂect the mellow, English-speak-

the death sentence, he had to do
nothing short of killing Gandhi," says Rajoura.

They bust each other’s pieties too. When Rajoura took off

on land acquisition, and asked

ing world of, say, All India Bak-

in an impassioned manner,

chod. nor the popular Hindi coniedy that mirrors social biases
rather than challenging them.
“A lot of thej okes you hear rely
on the idea that fat people are
funny, wives and girlfriends are
funny (but mothers are not), regional differences are funny, and
so on," says Ram. Such ideas are
emphatically not funny, for this
threesome. “Mayawati jokes, for
example, offend my caste politics
and my feminism,” says Grover:
Rajoura turned to comedy
after a decade in the software
industry; Grover is a screenwriter and poet behind movies
like Katiyabaaz, Dum Lagake
liaisha and Masaan. The gravelly~voiced Ram is a social activist
and the bass guitarist of Indian
Ocean. Apart from being bonded
by a common love for Old Monk
rum, the three men have a similar politics.
They speak in a cool, streetwise Hindi, and their jokes are

“what did the farmer get?", Ram
muttered “Pajero”.
Their songs are written and
rehearsed, the themes aredecided
in advance, but thej okes are large
ly made on the ﬂy They give each
other openings, draw back when

८: (From left) The trio of Raghu Ram, Sanjay Rajoura and
Varun Grover sees itself asthe third space in the comedy scene
interspersed with music. Rajoura

so music is essentialto the way we

and Grover both found the English-speaking standup scene in
South Bombay and Delhi too derivative and cut oﬁ" from its larger
context. “I wanted to do something that connected with more
people. Then I met Rajoura, who
was so easy in his skin and Ian
guage," says Grover.
“We‘re' trying to break the
stereotypes of standup. In India,
our storytelling style is diﬂ'erent,

convey things,“ says Rajoura.

“Rajoura’s the angry comic,
I’m the amused comic," says
Grover. Ram, being older and
wiser, brings a certain rigour to
the political comment. At a recent session, they took off on
Yakub Memon’s hanging and
how the death penalty was overwhelmingly “reserved” for Dalits and minorities. “Imagine, for
an upper-caste Hindu man to get
w mm"r’ any“

the one person is on a roll. One
time, they came up with a bit on
Gujarat's Sardar Patel statue. Gandhi, Nehru and Patel are sitting
around, and Patel starts to say “I
want to beprime min.. .", and Gandhi yells“statue”! Warming to the
theme, they went on about a Muslim guy in Gujarat donating the
iron crowbar stuck up his ass. But

Rajoura quickly clariﬁesthat they
have decided to cut back on the
profanity. “It‘s too easy to make

people laugh that way".
While theremay be people who
are oﬁended by the opinions, they
don’t care. Their attitude on stage
is simple, says Rajoura. “We’re
having a party, andyou’ re party to
that party."

