3 JANUARYB ommalaata TELUGU
'WRI'KI'EN BY

,

PRODUCED BY

Nadiminti
Narasingarao

,

Kala Jyotsna
Visakhapatnam

DIRECTED BY

Ianka Satyanand
SYNOPSIS
A young writer who Wants to expose the atrocities of politicians sees Mobim'
Bbasmasura, a puppet play by traditional puppeteers. Impressed by the show,
he feels pUppetry could be utilized to project present-day problems of society.
He approaches Sivaiah, the puppeteer, and asks him to change over to current

social themes in place of mythology. An old man from Sivaiah’s group kills
himself from hunger. This radicalizes Sivaiah, who accepts the writer’s
suggestion. In a dream sequence that follows the puppets revolt and opt for
. change. Sivaiah and the writer recast the puppets in modern roles and a play,
Varaleatna Bbagotam, is staged. This play — the actual story of a political
leader who takes advantage of his daughter-in-law’s dowry death for his
political advancement — tells people the truth about the political leader, who
tries to kill Sivaiah. An enquiry ordered against the politician by the government
leads to his dismissal. "Ihe young writer achieves his object of exposing the

politician.

-

'

०

रे DIRECTOR’S. NOTE
In terms of presentation, an attempt has been made here to utilize the form and
format of the puppet play, dying out slowly for want of patronage and the
_ onslaught of the media. The techniques of puppetry, and the movements
themselves, have been adapted for the purpose of the production.

CAST AND CREDITS
Sutradharudu/Sivaiah: GB Rama Krishna Sastry
Sishyudu Ganapathi: KK Satyanarayana
' _
Y'uvakavi:1 Chittaranjan Das
Vigneswarudu: P Baburao
Bangaraldca: Sarika
Kethigadu: Y\Sarveswara Rao
Sivadu/Pellikodu: Muthyalarao
Vishnuvu/Dora: P Chandrasekhar
३
Mohini/Pellikoturu: P Savithri
Pellikoturu 'I'andri: IV Subbarao
Roudi 1: M V'enkateswarulu
Roudi 2: Sanyasi Rao

Set: L Santaram
Music Direction/Harmony: D veerabadrarao
Dolak and Mmdangam: R Y'ellajirao .
Flute: .Dharmagya
Guitar: Parveesh
Talam and other effects: Dhanamjaya
Male Singer 1: Anandarao
Male“ Singer 2: Joga Rao
Male Singer 3: P Prabhakararao
Female Singer 1: Sailaja
Female Singer ५ 2 : Radha Devi
Female Singer 3: Anuradha
Costume Designer: AVNS Anand

5३33३ 1१णुथ१३१: A Amhony
1181115: tha“ Mum‘y

Make-up : K Chiranjeevi
Writer: Nadiminti Narasingarao

IANKA SATYANAND
Trained in the Intensive Theatre Workshop conducted by National School of
' Drama, Delhi, Ianka Satyanand has produced and acted in many Telugu plays.

