TOWARDS THE VISIT
THE VISIT is in every sense of the term a collaborative workshop production.
The MTW, as many of you know, has for several years created its own original
scripts through a series of group discussions.

BESURADESH, FALLOUT,

SlXTEEN-STUCK-STILL RUNNING & AZAADI have all evolved through such a
process.

This approach allows for a tremendous creative upsurge and a

plurality of vision.

Often in approaching an already written text one wonders

how to bring this ‘workshop' process into play.
Our production of THE VISIT this evening is just that.

From the very choice of the

script to the final staging that you will witness, the entire production has grown
and developed through the vital interaction of group members.

We have exploited

the thematic content of the script through improvisations, used theatre games to
expand our view on the character and the written word, collectively brainstormed
word associations to crystallize characterization, decided through consensus
on the kind of casting and most importantly, directed each and every scene ourselves.
From the first reading to the unit division, from the blocking to the fine honing

and final attention to detail—each scene has been directed by one of us.
Feisal's role has been that of a guide, helping to better sharpen the dramatic
material, involing restraint and lighthandedness on his part—but the result—as
you can find for yourself—has been tremendously rewarding.

Durrenmatt’s striking parable deals with THE VISIT of the fabulously rich
Claire Zachanassian to her pathetic native town, Guellen.

The town eagerly awaits

her visit, hoping for a large sum of money for its “deveIOpment'.
money — but there is a catch attached.

She promises the

The proposal at ﬁrst seems unacceptable,

but as the townspeople begin to buy on credit a range of consumer products, there
is perceptible change in the town's atmosphere...THE VISIT. Terrifying, thrught
provoking, inevitable.

Its relevance to our own time and space seems even greater,

with the arrival of Pepsi.

