FRIED RICH D U R R E N MATT
Durrenmattwas born to a protestant minister in 1921. He graduated
from a high school in Berne. In 1942, he studied literature and philosophy at Zurich.
He continued his studies at the University of Berne.

In 1947 he married.

Durrenmatt is one of the foremost European dramatists of the post worldwar-Il
era. He shot to prominence in the early 19503. THE VISIT, considered his
masterpiece, was ﬁrst performed in 1956.
Durrenmatt is often ranged alongside Bertolt Brecht and Max Frisch among

German authors. Kafka and the ’Camusian’ sisyphus too have had an important
influence upon his work. Durrenmatt says of himself “The village brought me forth,
and so i am still a villager". The compactness of his setting, adhering to some
extent to the Unities of place, time and action, demonstrate this. DeSpite writing
in German, Durrenmatt conveys the uniqueness and particularity of the Swiss

experience.

Nevertheless, his work has a universal character and appeal.

This Swiss-ness should be seen within the context of the world war trauma.

Switzerland, geographically central to the entire conflict, was yet a ‘neutral'
country, a non-participant, and through the war developed into a nation of the
comfortable bourgeoise. The much proclaimed 'loss of faith,’ therefore, affected

the Swiss differently.
In “Die Stadt' (The City) a critically embryonic collection of short stories,
he presents his theological stance. The extent of critical work on this anthology
is equalled by the variety of opinions upon it. From Elizabeth Brock-Sulzer's
ﬁnding a ‘devout Christianity in his work,’ to Hans Mayer's interpretation of a
“Theology without God.’ A different extreme is of God as a being who no longer
cares about man but is ‘basically a sadist whose nature compels him to torture man'.

This conception of God commences in ‘Die Stadt’, with its First Story, a twenty-eight
sentence piece beginning ‘It was Christmas’. The last piece centres around
Pontius Pilate, the crucifixion and presents Jesus as something of a Sado-Masochist.
These engagements with faith are echoed through the range of his ouvre.

Durrenmatt's other obsessions include the detective novel (a genre in which he
himself was a master), and the grotesque. Parodic Grotesque is a representation
of the tensions between earlier works of Art and modiﬁcations upon them.
This is realized in his drawing upon Aristophanes and his own extensive theoretical
work on the Tragi-comedy.

The overlapping of all these spheres within Durrenmatt's work prevents an
on a
application of any definitive label which would be an erroneous imposmon
creative vision that is intensely personal.
Durrenmatt is at heart a moralist.

A severe and difficult moralist, who asks

moral chorces
of his audience only the courage to face up to the task of making
in an ordered but amoral world.

I S A A C THOMAS

