THE 1५151'11३11५1/१1५५13९21111111. (In-DRAMA ३८९८ ASIAN THEATRE 1111"5'1३11'श्यानु"'
THE NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA & ASIAN THEATRE INSTITUTE, set up in 1959 by the
'Sangeet Natak Akaderni (the National Academy of Music. Dance and Drama established by the Government ol
India), provides a comprehensive three--ycar course of training in dramatics. It is located at Rabindra Bhavan
Fermeshah Road. New Delhi.
३

(.‘ourses
.
For the Iirst year the course ot‘ study is common to all students and consists of instruction in Dramatic
_ Literature (Eastern & Western) and the theory and practIce of Acting, Scenic Design, Costume De5Ign, I .Ighting.
.Make-up and Theatre Architecture.

The third year is devoted to specialisation in any one of the following :
'(I') . Direction

(ii)

Acting

('iI'i)

Stage Craft

(ir)

School DrI'IIIIIIlics. 1.८८. training in the teaching ol'.(lt'aIII:Itics to school children and . in the

method of using dramatic-.9 as a medium of instruction.

Specialisation in Radio & Television is also contemplated when circumstances permit.

Minimum 0II a I 1 ﬁ en t i (Ins
On the whole the School gives preference to candidates who already have a university degree.
This is
essential for those who wish to specialise in Direction or School Dramatics. For those wishing to take Acting or
Stage Craft, the minimum qualiﬁcation is S S. C.

Scholarships
Each year the‘ School olTéI9 12 seholaIships of Rs. 200 p. m. Subject to satisfactmy progIe'ss CS. scholarship is given for a period of २ years. In addition the Union Ministry of Education olIers as part 01 in: Cultural
Scholarships ८ Scheme," . two . to three scholarships each year. These are of R9. 250 p. m. for a period of two years,
extendable to three years. Prospective students may also try to qualify for these scholarships.
है-,
I urther Some StIIte AkIIdemies also oIIer scholarships of Rs. 200 or Rs. 250 p. III. to deserving candidates
from those states.
Iorexample the Mysore State Sangeetha Nataka Academy and the Iammu & Kashmir
Academy 01३ Art, Culture and Languages, have been oIIering such scholarships.

I

