A NOTE ON THE PLAY
A Bhavai performance consists of three to five separate playlets called Vesh. Unlike the Nautanki of
U. P., there is no tradition of publishing the text of a Vesh, with the result that it has remained very ﬂexible,
reﬂecting the passing moods of Gujerat through its various historical phases. During the Muslim period, many
obvious interpolations have taken place which are not relevant to the spirit of the play but may have had some
propaganda value at a given time. Each troupe of Bhavai players has its own version of a given Vesh. While
following the basic story, the players improvise their own dialogues and intersperse them with popular traditional
songs and verse which may be relevant to the occasion, like marriages etc., but which do not necessarily carry the
story forward.

The Vesh of JASMA ODAN too has many versions, each of them glorifying the theme of a Sati. The
basic story they all follow is that Jasma was an Apsara who was born as a Ode woman as a result of the curse of a
sage whom she tried to seduce at the command of Indra. While on earth, although she had to marry an ugly Ode,
she remains faithful to him, resisting all the temptations offered by the King of Gujerat.

But Jasma is a working woman and there is an undercurrent of pride in honest labour that is implied in
the story. The version of JASMA ODAN that is being presented to-day attempts to emphasise this dignity of
labour. Besides seeing several versions of this Vesh, I have consulted two texts collected by Dr. Sudha Desai and
Shri Amrit Nayak, before writing this new version of the play. I have elaborated the scene of Indra’s court and
redrawn the characters of Indra, Kaldev and Laldev.
At the end, Laldev replaced the Fakit who brings Jasma
back to life in the traditional performance of this Vesh. While leaving limited scope for irnprovision for Rangla
and Nayak, all the dialogues are re-written. The songs are selected from the traditional stock and the same tunes
are retained, but, as far as possible, they are used in a manner which would carry the story forward. Jasrna’s
husband, Rupaji (Rudio in Gujerati) is a creative soul in my version, retaining the power of concentration from
his previous birth as a Nalarishi, of course, he is ugly to look at as in the traditional story.

A Bhavai Vesh is played in the open, the audience sitting around a circular space left in the centre which
is known as a Chachar. It has no platform. Lighting is provided a by a petromax when it is available in a
village, and hand torches are used by the characters to spotlight their signiﬁcant moments.

tions, the same style is followed in the present production.

With slight modiﬁca-

Besides removing the crudities that have inevitably

crept in the costumes and the make-up of the Bhavar players at present, an attempt is made to base the costumes

on the Jain paintings of Gujerat.

It is difﬁcult to translate a folk play. While translating this play from Gujerati into Hindi we have tried
to retain the ﬂavour of the original. While the songs have been translated, the traditional tunes of Gujerati have
been retained.

The present production of a Bhavai Vesh is undertaken to give some idea of this form to our students
through their direct participation in it.
—Shanti Gandhi.

