I:>A ND UL lI3 l
' ProdUced \ by
INDIAN PEOPLES' THEATRE ASSOCIATION.
West Bengal

3Y N 0 PS I S

were yet to see
KARL MARX died in 1883 leaving behind many manuscripts which
the light of the day.

took
After his death Frederick Engels, Karl Marx’s Comrade-in-arm,

accomplish this huge
the responsibility of publishing those manuscripts but before he could
thed this invaluable treasure
task, Engels passed away. Before his death, Engels had bequea
Democratic Party. Unforof the working class of the whole world to the German Social
they could not do prOper
tunately, the leaders of the GSDP turned revisionists and naturally
e.
justice to the writings of these two great thinkers of the univers

In fact, two boxes contain-

oppression and injustice
ing the theoretical weapons of the working class in their ﬁght against
archive of "Germany. Comrade
and for a just better world order were lying uncared for in the

not bear this unhappy
Parker, a worker of London, who knew Karl Marx personally, could

help of the Bolshevik Party in saving
state of affairs and so he went to Russia to seek the
the GSDP. Moreover, by this
those manuscripts from the clutches of the revisionist leaders of
time,

all that was good in
Hitler had come to power in Germany and he was out to destroy

human society.

which
It was quite natural of him that he would not Spare these manuscripts

oppressors. Meanwhile
were, in fact, death knell to him and all other present and future
manuscripts of Marx
Lenin advised his comrades to ﬁnd out ways and means to save all the

and Engels.

s of
He was the man who could feel the real necessity of preserving the writing

Marx and Engels.

The play, Pandulipi (Manuscript) describes how those two boxes containing the
manuscripts were saved and were taken to Denmark with the help of a few comrades of

Germany who did not fall pray to revisionism and who were ﬁghting against fascism.

The

working class as a whole will remain ever grateful to all those comrades who handed over

this torch of knowledge and struggle to them.

world tomorrow and the day after.

The light of Marxism will illumine the Whole

