K A M LA
( Produced by B H U Ml KA )
SY N O PS l S
The village, Dholpur, lies by the side of the Agra-Bombay National Highway, close. to
the tri-junction of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. It is not only Dholpur, alike
it there are many other tribal—populated villages along both sides of this national highway.
About two years ago, a reporter of a largely-circulated English daily of Delhi, went in
disguise to Dholpur and purchased from their a tribal girl, Kamla, at a price of Rs. 2300. For

this he had to take great risk because the sale of girls in that area is operated secretly by a gang
of dreaded criminals with high connection. He brought the girl in Delhi and wrote three. पं
articles in his paper ( Indian Express : April 27, 28 and 29, 1981 ) on how he had purchased
the girl and how a ﬂesh-trading is being indulged in and around that area without any
resistance from any quarter. The photograph of Kamla was also published with the articles.
The eminent Marathi playwright, Mr. Vijay 'I‘endulkar’s play, “Kamla” is based on
the newspaper report.

In the introduction of the play, Mr. Tendulkar says :

“The story

published in 3 Delhi newspaper inSpired me to write Kamla. But my play is not conﬁned only
to that story. I do not like to narrate the story from the reporter’s point of view. What I have
felt after going through the news item has been present in my two-act play, Kamla. I have
made Kamla in my own way. My Karnla does not represent any speciﬁc human character.”
The present production is a Bengali version of the Marathi drama.

CR ED IT
Original script
: Vijay Tendulkar
Bengali Translation
and Editing : Dr. P. G. Adyalkar & Kalyan Chaudhuri
Direction
: Samir Mazumdar and Kajal Chaudhuri
Light

:

Stage
Music
Vocal
Make-up
Music-Operator

: Jay Sen ,
: Gopal Mallik
: Mrs. Kurnkurn Chatterjee
: Sattar
: Hirnangshu Pal & Sripati Das

Stage Manager

:

Tapas Sen

Nandadulal Das

CA S T
Samir Mazumdar, Kajal Chaudhuri, Malay Biswa
s, Satikanta

Ghosh, Ganga Pal and Sulata Chowdhury ( guest
artiste ).

