Ruchika Theatre Group’ 3 next production, as a part of the NATARANG
WEEKEND THEATRE festival is Iaywant Dalvi’s RISHIE NAA’I'E. The shows
of this are on March 61th and 7th at 6.30 pm. at this same venue.
Ruchika Theatre Group’s production of Iaywant Dalvi’s RISH'I‘E NAATE, a
sensitive play about a family with a- disabled child, was selected as one of the
five best plays of 1997. It tells the story of a couple Kathare and Shailaja whose
middle-class existence is fraught with tension : having to make ends meet,
dealing with the hustle bustle of daily life, the grind of the office and home

routine, the couple are not able to snatch even a few moments of togetherness.
Shailaja’s office also does not provide any space for her - the drone of the
typewriter, petty office politics and promotions, covertly passed pornographic
pictures. . .. And escalating all these tensions is the fact the Kathdhare and
Shailaja’s child is mentally challenged and a fast developing adolescent. This
poses an even greater challenge to the family in many new ways.
How does one cope? How does one find the space for oneself? How does one
reach out to a spouse who is becoming a different person, withdrawing further

and further into his shell? Does one look outside of marriage for another
relationship of substance? Does the secret lie in changing ones attitude to the
situation, of taking control?
The play deals with these and many other questions, and leaves us the richer,
more aware and certainly more optimistic at the end of the experience. It has had

six performances in various parts of Delhi, and will be presented once again as
part ef Natarang Weekend Theatre.
Of eurptoduction the critics havesaid,
Directed with restraint and understanding; No maudlin moments disturbed the

य०डिमियोटा३-- Siddharthdisutterlyconvincingailiachu
Hindustan Times

Masterly handling. . . Sanjeev's characterisation is immaculate, Smita is a picture of
penLup desires क्या.Sidcﬂaarthais excellent.
_ ,
TheHindu
The cast includes Smita Vats(ealier seen as Anna Karenina and Sylvia Plath), Sanjeev
BhargavaTCeciLQadit, 1)1101181.111151181811)1111111..1..18111112111.11.11, and
Siddhartha Luther to the Delhi stage. The play has been specially translated into Hindi by
ArunSehgalandﬁM 'I‘heproductionisdimctedhy FTeisaLAlkazinnchmduced by
Gouri—Niiakantan. -

awuam
r—m—nw ५७८८ «wuioﬁ

. a;
त्वगृदृ-द्वागूँ

..-,_
i‘ I ५
ﬁllilv-ﬂ

timer—«W3;फँढूँक्वव्रश्वट्वें"

