Awishkar means expression.
Awishkar is a non-commercial
experimental theatre group based in
Bombay, working for the betterment of

the parallel-stream theatre in Marathi
and Hindi.
It has been producing relevant,
non-proﬁtmaking plays consistently for
the last 18 years and also runs a
children’s theatre wing called
Chandrashala, which trains children
in the arts of theatre, music, dance,

puppetry etc. , and also gives
fullﬂedged performances like the
highly acclaimed Durga Zali Gauri.
Awishkar also imparts theatre-training:
two workshops are held every year
which try to mould and channelize
young talent.
The parallel-experimental theatre has
always faced the grave problem of
having a performing place of its own
... Awishkar has successfully tried to
offer a solution by making the hall of
the Chhabildas Lallubai Boys’ High

indegenous Indian theatre, presented
by theatre groups representing various
parts of India.
Veterans of international stature

and repute like K.N. Panikkar, Habib
Tanvir, Bhaskar Chandavarkar,

Probir Guha, B. Jayashree, Tijanbai
and the world-known puppeteer Suresh
Dutta are participating in this festival.
Our most sincere thanks to them.

The 33 plays for adults, in Marathi and
Hindi, and the 12 plays/dance-dramas
for children, produced so far (over
1200 performances) are a proof of the
consistent and meaningful work done
by Awishkar and the organisation of
this festival for two years in memory
of Shri Arwind Deshpande, reﬂects the
urge and efforts of Awishkar to
encourage new talent and to expose

audiences to the theatre-happenings on
the national level, so as to create a
national theatre perspective.

School, Dadar, available to all similar

theatre groups with the kind
co-operation of the General Education
Institute, which runs the school.

This has not only provided a ‘roof’ for
these theatre groups, but has given rise

AWIshkar

to a movement, which has made

intimate theatre and non-proscenium
theatre a possibility.
Awishkar also considers itself to be a
mother institution and helps organise
and sponsor performances of other
like-minded theatre-groups. To
commemorate the first death
anniversary of Shri Arwind
Deshpande, Awishkar organised a
month-long massive drama festival in
Bombay from 3rd January 1988 to 3rd
February 1988, wherein 16 groups from
all over Maharashtra participated and
presented 25 plays.
Awishkar also brought out a
commemoration volume called
Ranganayak which is a collection of
articles by eminent people from the
theatre world.

This year’s festival tries to reflect the
varied trends and traditions of

आविष्कार

