.J

<
D
Z
I.”

'm

The Living Theatre, Khardah, founded
1977 has been involed in a non—prosceniu'
theatre—movement and had been active i
small towns, villages, schools, universities,

among all cross-sections.of audiences spread
all over India. Social issues demanding popu—
lar reactions are being projected in the Living
Theatre’s plays. The Living Theatre has
consistently attacked communalism, religious
obsqurantism, oppressive social connections
and stiperstitions, and political apathy. In its
endeavour to ﬁnd a theatrical form and a body
language capable of communication of its
message to a wide spectrum of people, the
group has gone through a series of workshops
conducted by its members and also by directors like Jerzy Crotowski, Peter Brook, Bruce
.l var, Toshi Tsitchuteri, James V. Hatch.
". H Martin, Richard Schechner and the mas—
ters of Chow and Kalari. The Living

Theatre has performed widely in and outside
India.
The Living Theatre performs every alternate friday evening at Khardah and has a repeitoire of sixteen plays. These regular performances are open to the public and free of
charge.
Ahilya is a play on women.
The play is a collage woven around the theme
of the everyday oppression and exploitation of
women. raised to the level of an image of
natural Violence against women. The production is rooted in a desire to assault the audience with violence. Since violence as a subconscious urge is basic to man. so much of
human endeavour is directed to keep it secret.

A confrontation with naked violence in theatre
exposes the audience too, and leaves them
without their defences and disturbs them to
the point of questioning. Voilence in Ahalya
also leads to a denudation of language —
meaningless sounds replacing words in parts
of the play, conveying voilence without even
the saving grace of language for communication. The production draws for its language of
movements and gestures on several folk conventions of martial arts including the Purulia
Chhau from Chandil, the Kolatom from
Andhra Pradesh, Karasama and Kalari

from Kerala and the Kabuinaga and the
Thang-ta from Manipur —- all labouriosly
learnt and practised to create the image of
violence.

We are not trying to promise anything like
women’s liberation or the theories thereof.
With the dubious sense of morality nurtured
by the middle-class menfolk, we doubt if our
women ever be our equal partners. Therefore
Ahilya is an expression of that excruiating
feeling.

If you are looking for a story in the conventional sense, you will be disappointed. The
play has been developed on the theme of the
women’s point of View. Ahilya tries to look at
the present society, as our women see it. We

have tried to project the hopes, the pains and
the deprivations of our women.
We will deem our efforts successful,

if,

through this production. we can convey that
our womenfolk are also humanbeings tortured
by the menfolk willynilly.

