९८१५८ शा I iluud minimiqu nnumau ‘n

,५,८५५ १.५..
…

Synopsis
A mystical land comprising of nine concentric ranges of hills encircling a valley. an erstwhile paradise. exists in a
secluded corner oi the earth. Unfortunate turn of events through the passage of time has deprived it much of its glory.
In the Prologue. SEVEN OLD WOMENJhe sentinels guarding the cultural traditions of the land. invoke the evil spirits and
try to propitiate them to leave their land and let the people live in peace. They call upon the Wise Men. who have faded
into oblivion. to save them.
—"
In the first scene. SEVEN WISE MEN. thought to have vanished and gone into deep slumber. turn in their sleep after

seeing a disturbing dream. a bad otﬁEn. They awake to decipher the dreams. recognize the crisis that haunts the land.
but goes to sleep again. The story of the fall of the country is presented in the form of a sequence of Raasleela. exquis-

itely performed by a group of danC‘érs. revealing its rich repertoire of rhythms. postures and gestures; rudely and bru—
tally disrupted by Time appearing as a demon who slashes the dancing wrists. symbolic of the destruction of art and
culture.
टे
in the second scene. the SEVEN WISE MEN wake up again to see their dreams turned to a horrible reality. The Wise
Men are disheartened to find thatjheir beloved land has transformed completely while they had been asleep. Time

has almost completely devoured théir children along with all their cultural traditions. Genocide, political instability.
venality. unemployment and extortion by unlawful elements—news of happenings around the globe filter in. The Wise
Men come forward to protect and‘save their people from the miseries.
In the third scene they call upon the celestial nymphs and the mothers to help them write a new book of knowl—
edge, drawing upon the ancient scléolars. ancestors, and ojhas (preceptors). who had been the pillars of wisdom. As
they complete their book that contains the wisdom of freedom. peace, rel igion. politics. economics, human rights and

duties. for the present times. the deity emerges front water in the form of Hiyang Heren. the traditional Dragon Boat.
and carries away the Seven Wise Men who leave behind the book of knowledge for the younger generation.

In the Epilogue. Mothers relate to their children their past history and the unwelcome changes that have taken place
in the recent times. The mothers Sing lullabies to console their children and plead with the Wise Men to return. Lamps
are lit on the hill tops and in the valley to enlighten and remind the people of their past glory to bring back the peace—

ful days once more,

W

'

The Group
Set up in 1976, the Chorus Repertory Theatre with its own well equipped two acre theatre complex and its 200 seater
auditorium. The Shrine, in lmphal, ग्रेष्ठर्द्धत्माड of the country’s leading groups with a formidable catalogue of national and
international performances round the globe—‘ln Italy. Greece. UK. Germany. the erstwhile USSR. UK. USA. Japan.
France, Australia, Taiwan. New Zealaitd, Brazil. Switzerland. Holland. Austria and throughout Latin America. Its inter—
national awards include the Fringe Fitsts Award 1987 "at the Edinburgh International Theatre Festival. and Diploma of
the Cervantino International Theatre Festival. Mexico 1990. Chakravyuha (The Wheel of War, 1984), performed more
than 100 times by now, thrust the company into the global scene. With Uttara-Pr/yadarshi (The Final Beatitude) and
Hey Nungs/iibi Pr/‘th/Vi (My Earth , My Love). playwright-director Thiyarn continues his examination of the human condition. extending his probirigsotwnd power in his search for enlightenment, reconciliation and peace.
Chorus Repertory Theatre: Uripok Hawbam Dewan Lane, lrnphal 795 001.
Telfax: 91 0385 410578(O) / 91 0365 411345 e-mail: chorusl@sancharnet.in

