lrcr trtrc-hluc gbartmedar Inalcem when she

]. ]. . :. :.,. . . . . . . ]:. .1 ,

pnscntcd her concert on 50 October at Birla
Sahhtrgar. The pure aakar-based elaboration

venue after a gap of 15 years!
He chose Shari/tam, a powerful raga,
and, inspier by the ambimce and his own

and typical "Jaipur" mans within the

reverence for Swamiji, made it scale the

structure of the time-tested traditional slow

peaks of melodic mysticism by treating it with

Imrml brmzlirb नि;.", pag haulc-haule" and
the clear enuncianon of“Shuhh din rial shubh
ghadi", a last ale/a!composition by her
erudite fzrdter, Pandit Vamanrao Sadolikar,

superbly measured artistry — with more
attention on emotions than mere dexterity.
Anol Chattcriee, his worthy disciple who

were the hallmarks of her ﬁrst raga Btbagda.
Nuvt. .Vrryalei Kamrda, an encore. turned
out to beeven morecaptivating. Inspired by
the distinguished audience and desired

support from Sanirty Adhikary (labla).
Rupashree Iihattacharya (harmonium) and

her twodisciples tvrx‘als). she sang a
composition in therare raga Bibat-i and
followed it up with another rare gem.

Kimdaualt', which blends Dutga and Gaud
rim/bar. The audiencewas asking for more
when this rcportcr had to leave to honour an
unavoidable commitment.

These days, onemisses the wellresearched and audio dipladen interesting
introductionsof the artistes presented by
SangeetMhram. This was aunique feature of
this organisation. consepnralisedand

accompanied him on the harmonium apart
from giving him vocal support, matched this
rrrood with ama7ing sensitivity and together
they treated magc. The melancholic mood of
“Saiya gaye पति a thumri irnrnonalised hy
Begham Akhrar, also remained steeped in

spirituality when presented with softly
curving phrases and Iibaisladen widt loving
"wards. Indranil Bhaduri offered extremely
sensitive tabla accompaniment.
Dbmpad maestro Uday Bhawalkar etched
an exemplary characterof raga Prln‘a. The

Eulogy
Pandrt Lakshmi Narayan Mishra. a hugely
gilted and leaned musicians who never
ventured out to attract mention for due

acknowledgement from theworld of classical
music left for his heavenly abodeas quietly,
on 29 October
Borrt into a rnusrctl

could groom beginners by giving thema
good foundation based on easy steps and a
dear concept, This is a rare corrurrodity by all
rrrcans andthat is why he was oneof the
rrrosr respected members of the facultyof ﬁt
Sangeet Research Academy.
Almost from its inception, apart front the
Academy's eminent gums‘ concerts, Mishra’s

in 1958 at

liariharpur. inAzamgarh district of Unar
Pradesh. hecame to Kolkara as a six-year-old

and wasinitiated into the an of tabla and
meals by his paternal uncles, Pandits
Baleshviar PrasadMislua andChandrabali
Mislua. later. due to a problem widt voml
chords, he devoted his tirtre to the tabla
under the guidance of Benar-asgbarana
maestrth like Bundi Maharaj. Bulbul Maharai

and Ram PrasadMislua. As a youngtabla
exponent. he participated in many important
music festivals in India andoverseas since
1954. He accompaniedtop-ranking
musicians like Vrnayak Rao Parwardhan. DV
Palusltat. liir-abai Barodeltar, Bhimsen Joshi,

Giriia Devi Prabha Atre, Ali Akbar Khan and
several others. He was also very muchliked
by the Kathak dancers. lie accompanied Birju

Maharai, Bachanlal Mishra and Chitresh Das
and earned respect as an all'rounder. After
the 1980s. hetook to teaching rtrore

tabla accompaniment helped the then young
Rashid Khan, AioyChakrabany and their like
in their riyaz sessions and. at tinres, he also
gave them bartdisbes from his own treasure
oldie Benarasgbaram He continuedto
serve theAcademy despite indifferent health,

but there mine a phase when he had to bid
adieu around 2010. Thiswas too painful for
hint and hereally did not recover since. A
very soft-spoken man with a pleasant smile,
duldlike innocence andtremendous selfrespect, he never complained of any aches
and pains and happily kept trainingstudents,

dbrm, but all withour the content orsparkle

thatemanates from dedicated n’yaz.

Arpan

many of whom are bignames now and many

whodid not take his lessons, steeped in
positivity, seriously. Yethe kept showering his
blessingunconditionally.
May his noble soul rest in the eternal bliss
of melody and rhythm!

Sangeet Ashram

seriously. Apart front the tabla, he was an

Vidushi Sltruti Sadoliltar Katkarof theJaipur

acellentIzbayal andtbumn‘ teacher who

Auauli gbarana ﬁve a brilliant account of

ITC Sangeet Research Academy‘s annual
melodic offering during the Puja season is

knownas ‘Arpan” and this year, in association
with The Ramakrishna MissionInstitute of
Culture, it presented its offeringat the latter's
prestigiousVivekananda Hall (51 October-1
November). The seniorand juniorgurus and
scholars with theacademy werefeatured in
thesoiree andthe best thingthat happened
was that Pandit AioyChaluaharty sangat this

Bharati (Hanan!) proved that they are

manning beautifully. Bodr were ably
supported bySamar Saha‘s seasoned tabla

meena banerjee
presents her weekly
update

Honoured

slow meena-infused alap, the क्या element

laced gamaks in thejod and fasterman-like
movements in thejbala segmentwith
dynamits ofvoice-throw treating varied

Guru A Srividya was presented with ‘Smt
Parvathy Gopalakrishnan and Sri K\’
Gopalakrisluran Endowment Felicitation”

आंत gurus ofthe Vidyalaya and the present
Raniana Sabhajointly organised a “Sangcet
Sandhya' widt support from Infosys

imbibed from her gurus at Sri Gtiruguha
GanaVidyalaya
This Vidyalaya wasestablished inKolkata
in 1942 by AAnanthakrishm lyer to mach
Carnatic music andpropagate the music and
philosophy ofSriMutlruswarrray Dibhitar,
one of thevenerated trinityof Cannot music.
Belonging to the direct Sisbya paramapara

shades added to the beauty and pure feature
of theraga. The steady notes in his disciple
Saga: Morankar‘s deepvoice ﬁlled in theक्या
beautifullywith tuneful melody.
Accompanied byTapas Das on the
क्या, Bhawallrar' sang “Parvati Nath
Shiv-Shambho" widtvery subtle [ayawithhis mainthrust on “Dev
Iago"! Spaddinglydear enunciation made the
sin ' shine like a gem.
क्या दुहुँशांणा is the most powerful
armourof Kumar Mardur (Praia Dbarrasbt-i
andDutga, accompanied by SaniayAdhlkari
andJyoti Golro) who captivated with his
sharp, high-pitched voice and amaa‘ng
raglan. Ditto withArshad Ali Khan (Multanl,
supported byIndranil Bhaduii andJyoti
Goho) whosounds more cﬁective in the
depths of lower octave. Yoturgsilan‘st Ayan
Sengupta (Mam Bibag) andguitarist Ratan

origin is trulycreditable, In स्थाto the

Justice Chitratosh Mukerjee did the honours

Di‘lzrbilar uadition fromwhat site has

Shrutl Sadollkar

adrietement; that. too. teaching an an form
in aplace that is quite far fromthe place of

instituted by their sorts to honour those who
aredoing valuable serviCe to theconunurtity.
and spoke highly of theCarnatic music
tradition.Guru A Srividya offered her
reverence to her gurus and insisted that she
wasonly trying to arry forward the

presented byPandit Viiay Kichlu. Another

uniquething was that theentire evening used
to focus on one musician, which actually
helps mess theactual calibre of the
participating artiste under the aegis ofthis
prestigiousorganisation whereceleb
musicians adorn theseats of audiences But
the latterhas one positive poirtt as well.
When a young musician shares thestage with
aveteran, he. too. gets the privilege of sudr
initiated listenership.
From this ange, young sitarexponent
Hidayar Khan, youngersondisciple of
legendarysitar maestro Ustad Vilayat Khan,
hada huge opportunity to showcase his
lineage.In theﬁrst halfof theevening ably
assistedby Ashoke Mulrheriee (tabla), he
chosemgajbittjboti widt alapj'odjbala and
aIaantibat’ laden teemalgaI-bandisb
com
byhis father. In keeping with their
tradition, hesang too; and ﬁnally he played a' ’ …'

Srivirlya felicira rod

ofDiksbilar, Iyer dedicated himself to his
passion and hewas a highlyrespected
teadrer. After his demise in 1959. his son and
daughter, A Anantharamanlyer andA
Champakavalli. canted aloft the teaching
tradition through vocal. क्या and the

guru. Bharatiya Vidya Bhawarr and Rasika

Foundation.

The evening culminatedwith a lively
concen of Vivelt Sadasiimn, greatgrandson
of the founder of the Vidyalayaand a
promising young vocalist who is now
undergoing advanced u-airting under Sangita
Kalarridi (MusicAcademy, Chennai)
nominate Sanjay Subramaniam after being

groomed under Rudrapatnam Sri
Thyayraian and his own erudite musidan
parents. He was accompanied by violinist B

\inal Rangan (disciple of maestroA
Kanvaku‘man‘) and mt-idangmn aponent 8

\enka: Raman (disciple of Vidwan R
Srinisasan).

Coming up

violin. Amonpt them, they created many of

21 Non Bhowanipur Sangit Sammilani

the finest musio'ans who arenow spread
around the globe Dt‘lasbt'lar
rrrusrc.
When the great teachers succumbed to

cellgbrates Fandit Santosh Bandopadhyay's
84 birthday leanuingSougato

the element of “time”. the मिधि७हिशof
carrying on the uaditionin Kolkata fell to A

Mukherjee (sitar) with Pinaki Chakraborty

Srividya. daughter ofAnanthatraman lyer.

Sammilani

"leaching me very naturally to Srividya as
she was unconsciously groomed within the

presents vocalist Ustzd Mashltoor Ali Khan

precincts ofthe \idyalaya. “Akita” to her
students, she followed thetradition andput a
strong foundation on the rudiments of
Carnatic music before delvinginto the liner
as
of thecompositions.
Perl: 73 yearsof glorious pedagogy by any
institution is by no meansa small

Roychowdhry (sarod), Uiiwalendu

Chakraborty (surbabar) and Debashis
(tabla) and SwarupGhoshal (pakbau’aﬁ;
है 6 pm.

25 Nov: Il'C Sangeet Research Academy
with SaniayAdhikary (tabla) and
Rupashrec Bhattaclrarya (harmoniurn);

Academy Hall; 6 pm.
I
27 Nov:Jahnavi celebrates silver iubdee of
Bharatanatyam danseuse Madhubani
Chatter-jee‘s illustrious career with hersolo

presentation; Rabindra Sadan; 7 pm.
सांग्ला दृ x; -. '

