SAN D H YA C H H AYA

’The greatest evil of our industrialized society is the growing

alienation within the family unit.

The joint family ties are breaking,

and the two generations find themselves estranged from one another.
The old people, retired from worldly life, face loneliness and death,
while the young stand on the brink of life, ambitious and eager for

its challenges.

Both their desires and needs are genuine and a

natural outcome of the changing times.

SYN O P SI S
AC T —- I
Scene 1. Nana and Nani, an old middle—class couple, lonely and
disabled. They have two sons. The elder, Dinu, is an engineer in
the States. The younger, Nandu, is an Air Force Pilot, stationed
at Kashmir.

Nana and Nani's whole existence revolves around their sons,

around their marriages, the grand—children and a house full of
laughter which would lighten the shadows of their waning lives.
This dragging existence is occasionally livened by Mhadu,
the servant, the postman who comes now and then, or the telephone
which rings occasionally. One such telephone call brings them into
accidental contact with Sharmila Dixit, a young girl ,whom they begin

to identify with their long dead daughter, Malu.

A little later, chance brings Vinay Bhole , a young stranger,
thrOugh the door and into their hearts. Nana and Nani welcome Vinay
like a long lost‘son, press him to move in with them and even fix

Dinu's marriage with his sister.
Scene 2. Nana and Nani's obsession with the marriage of their sons
is. further heightened by the wedding procession on the street below.
Shyam D eshpande brings the news of Dinu's marriage to an American
girl. Nana and Nani are stunned. The wedding procession is now a
distant echo down the street.
I

Scene 3.

Nana and Nani are now withdrawn and lonelier than ever.

This sudden void makes them turn to Nandu, their only hope.
All
their dreams new centre around him and soon they fix his marriage

with Vinay's sister.

Their waiting now acquires a feverish desperation

for Nandu is shortly expected to come home on leave.

out just then, and Nandu's leave is

IN TERVA L

cancelled.

But war breaks

I

