ﬁirector's Note

ﬁt

This is my fourth encounter with Inder Sabha.
The first one was in 1965 when it was produced
by the Little Theatre Group. Second was in 1991
when staged by the Prvatiya Kala Kendra. Third
encounter was an N.S.D. students' production, a
‘couple of years ago. While working on the same
text with different groups, mainly actor-singers,
my perception of theatre as an art form, to be

each character is supposed to use a different tune
based on a different Raga of North Indian classical
music. Notwithstanding some repetitions, the
musical modes for different characters are different.
In this production choral singing is as important
as individual singing is.
Here instead of creating music for theatre,
which is normal practice, theatre is created for

more precise, of Indian theatre, has undergone a
music.

marked change. I feel that the so called idea of
differences pertaining to realistic and non-realistic theatre is itself unrealistic. I am convinced
that any theatre or for that matter any work of
art is either good or bad. One cannot go on
confusing with arbitrary divisions and sub—divisions. Here I may be excused for quoting Oscar
Wild who in his immortal work De Profuna’is has
stated that “suffering is one long moment. It cannot
be divided into seasons.” Similarly I now realise
that all art including theatre is one long moment
of creative experience and it would be false to
divide it into traditional and modern, into an-

cient and contemporary. I feel that Valmik's
Ramayana orjaydev's Geet Gavind are as contemporary as M.F. Hussain's paintings or Chekhov’s
plays. Every good work of art transcends all the
barriers of time and space, and I place Inder
Sablza in the same category.
Amanat's Inder Sabha was written in 1848 and
was later taken up by Parsi Theatre companies in
their repertoire. All through these years, its basic
structure remained the same, but it also under-

went some changes, particularly in the style of
presentation.

The change is noticed primarily in its musical
design which constitutes its main ingredient. One
’is immediately struck by the vast knowledge of
the playwright of the north Indian musical forms
which have been utilised as theatrical tools to
narrate the story. This musical structure sharply
differs from the so called traditional forms of
theatre prevalent in our country. For instance, in

Nautanki Behar Taveel or Chaubola is sung by
almost all characters of a play. But in Inder Sablza

It is also a unique thing about Inder Sabha
that both the ' script and music have evolved out

of theatrical usage.
Another significant factor is the use of many
languages spoken in the Hindi speaking belt.
Although Urdu dominates the text, other languages
of the region have also been incorporated. For
this reason it can be stated that this is the first
theatrical attempt to create Hindustani theatre,—
Indian, both in form and content.

As stated earlier my first encounter with mu—
sical modes of Inder Sablza took place in 1965.
The late Shri Champa Lal who had worked for
many years in Parsi theatre, taught these tunes to
the late Shri Panna Lal Kathak, who in turn, com—

posed the music for Inder Sabha. While working
as production advisor I also learnt the tunes during
rehearsals and later made some modifications in
the music for the Parvatiya Kala Kendra's production in 1991. La] Pari sequence consists of my
fresh compositions along with other songs which
appear as dialogues. I also composed and introduced suitable background music for all the se—
quences. I have further enlarged and developed
this aspect in the current - production of N.S.D.
Repertory.

Dance is also an important part of Ina'er Sabha.
Since the ambience of Lucknow and the Pari
Khana of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah and Rahas loom
large in the background of this play, Kathak goes
well with the songs—better than other classical
dance forms. In the present production I have
tried to integrate Kathak movements with the songs

as also in the general choreography.

