Th e Direct or

Born on 6thjuly, 1928 at Almora (U.P.) Shri Mohan

Upreti obtained his Master's degree in Diplomacy and
International Affairs and Senior Diploma in Hindustani
classical Vocal Music from Allahabad University.
Shri Upreti is a multi-faceted personality. He is
a. music composer, teacher, director, folk lorest,
singer,writer, advisor. Founder director of Lok

Kalakar Sangha, Alrnora, he was Programme Director, Sriram BharatiyaKala Kendra New Delhi (1964—
1973) . Associate Professor of Music: National School
of Drama (1977-1990).Visiting Professor of Music at
the Institute of Advanced Studies in Education,
Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi (1992—93). He was

Mohan upre ti
Ghasi Ram Kotwal, Mahanirvan, A 1zdha Yug,
Skana’gupta, Damon’s Death, Mother, Caucacean Chalk

Circle Mashrioz' Hoar, Uttarramcharit, Gandhi, Kanupriya
etc.

His directorial ventures apart from Inder Sahha,
include Vande Matram—multi-Inedia show for Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Rami, Megha’oot, Ramlila, Bhana

Ganganath, jeetu Bagaa’wal, Rasik Ramola etc. Shri
Upreti has written scripts for many dance-dramas
produced by Srirarn Bharatiya Kala Kendra, NewDelhi,

including Sitayan, Mirahai, Sura’as, Krishnavatar,
Urvashi, Megha’oot etc. His published works include
Malushahi-the Ballad of Kumaon, Kurnaoni Lok Geet,

also the Producer, Folk Theatre Festival organised
by Bharatiya Natya Sangh, New Delhi (1961) and

Folk Songs of Kumaon for Hindi Sahitya Ka Vrihad

Music Director of Folk Dance Ensemble, Government of India, Department of Culture (1974-75).

Shri Upreti has received Bharatiya Natya Sangh
Award for Music Direction (1981), UP. Sangeet Natak

Shri Upreti has done extensive work in
preservation and presentation of folk songs and
dances of Kumaon.His experience of adaptation of
folk lore of Central Himalayan Region to
contemporary stage includes music composition for
folk operatic plays presented by Parvatiya Kala
Kendra. New Delhi, They include R ajula Malushahz'.
Ajuwa Bafaula, Rasik Ranzol,]eetu Bagdwal, Bhana

Gangnath etc.
Shri Upreti has composed music for ballets and
plays presented by Song & Drama Division, Hindustani
Theatre, Abhiyan, Yatrik, Prayog and National School
of Drama. Plays include Bhagz‘rath, Mudra Rakshas,

Itihaas.

Award for Folk Dance (1985), Surnitra Nandan Pant

Award for services to Kumaoni (1987), North Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi, Award for Theatre Music (1991)
Yash Bharati Sarnman of UP. Government (1994) He
has been conferred Ratan Sadasyata (Fellowship) of
the UP. Sangeet Natak‘Akademi for his adaptations
of folk ballads for contemporary stage in 1994. He was
honoured, by Almora Municipal Committee in 1992.
Shri Upreti, who has visited 22 countries as leader

of the cultural delegations is presently President and
Hon. Director of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi
and Vice~President of UP. Sangeet Natak Akaderni,
Lucknow.

