A Fascinating Entertainer
Amanat‘s Inder Sabha written and ﬁrst staged in
Lucknow in the early fifties of the 19th century, is
an instance of a typical development of the traditional performing arts in north India particularly
the Hindi—speaking region. Like many other cultural
expressions here, the story of Inder Sabha also has
a very mixed and many-layered source, including
Vikmmorvashiyam of Kalidasa and its various versions found in legends, folk tales as well as the
Urdu narrative poems called Masnavis written in
the last century. Similarly, its dramatic form is a
curious amalgam of elements from the theatrical,
musical and narrative genres, of the region like

traditional performing texts all over the country.
But its specific structure follows a performing pattern developed by that unique royal patron of arts,
Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, the ruler of Awadh, who

not only wrote scripts, created music and dance
scores for numerous Rahas and other performances, maintained elaborate establishment for the pur—
pose, called Parikhana, but also participated in them
himself along with his queens. concubines and
hundreds of dancing girls, permanently employed
for the purpose.

Inder Sabha, is designed totally as a play for
singing and dancing, without almost any prose dialogue, and has an in—built provision for preponderance of dance which makes it substantially dif—
ferent from a Swang or Nautanki play. As a result,

With such emphasis on colourful dance and
music, it is not surprising that Inder Sablza became
very popular in Lucknow when it was written and
performed and later in other parts of northern In—
dia. Naturally, it was also often in the repertoire of
famous parsi theatrical companies for almost a century. In spite of its ﬂimsy romantic narrative, it is a
fascinating entertainer,which if properly prepared can
build up audiences and sustain a theatre

the musical forms like Thumrz’, Hori, Dadra, Ghazal

company,though it requires a very resourceful team

and others have been incorporated in the text in a
manner more suitable for a Kathak dance recital
than for a dramatic performance. Even so, Inder
Sabha is basically a musical play like many other

accomplished in music.dance as well as acting to
make its production an effective and worthwhile
theatrical experience.

Rasleela,

Rasak, Rahas, Bhagat, Swang, Kathak,

Aallza, Dastangoyee (Storytelling) etc.

N emi Chandra J ain

