Director
Ranjit Kapoor
Born in Sihor district of Madhya Pradesh in the year 9 June 1948. Ranjeet Kapoor started his theatre career
intially with Parsi Theatre Company owned by his father which travelled widely to various parts of the
country like : — Madhya Pradesh, Rajsthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Goa, Daman etc. This subsequently

resulted in his irregular school education. After switching over to various odd jobs he was ﬁnally attachd
with “Dainik Tarun Bharat” in Lucknow.
Between the year 1965 to 1971 he wrote number of poems and stories which were published in Sarika and
other magazines of the period. In 1973 he joined National School of Drama. He received Best Director
award for his diploma production ‘Woyzeck’ a German play. By 1977 he joined N.S.D. Repertory Company
as an actor besides countinuing his work in back stage: Begam Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri and Khabsoorat
Bahu are his famous N.S.D. Rep. Productions. He resigned from Repertory Company in 1979 and worked
in verious cities of the country like— Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Bhopal, Lucknow, Rajstahan, Himachal, as
a freelance director. Some of his famous directed plays are :
Begum Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri, Ek Ruka Hua Faisla, Woyzeck, Sher-Afghan, Bichchhu, Kaua Chala
Hans Ki Chat, Bury the dead. Ek Ghora Chhe Sawar, Ek Sansadiya Samiti Ki Uthak Baithak, Pair Tale Ki
Zameen, Khabsoorat Bahu, Kuru Kuru Swaha, Ek Mamooli Aadmi, Janpath Kiss, Mera Dost Bhootnath
etc.

He has translated and adapted most of his plays. His contribution in the ﬁlm is also remarkable. He did
lyrics and music for the film Aadhar Shila and dialouges for ﬁlms like: Jane Bhi do Yaro, Mohan Joshi
Hazir Ho, Ek Ruka Hua Faisla, Khamosh, Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa, Bandit Queen, Shart, Lajja, Kya Kehna,
Hum to Mahobbat Karega, The legend of Bhagat Singh, 'I‘ere Mere Sapne etc. He is also engaged in the
forthcoming ﬁlms like Khakee, The Rising &éI‘ycoon etc.
He has also directed number of TV. Serials for Doordarshan like Basanti. Purvai, Amir Khushro, Chekhov

ki Duniya, etc.
He has awarded by Sahitya Kala Parishad (Delhi Govt.) and Shikhar Sarnman by MP. Govt. for his
contribution in the ﬁeld of theatre.

