Coreographer
Ashley Lobo's
Ashley Lobo's involvement in theatre was the inevitable result of being brought up in a very artistic environment.
His mother, Celia Lobo, was a major inﬂuence in his life. She received her formal training in London at the

Guildhall School of Music and is a well renowned and respected opera singer and theatre personality. Ever since
he can remember, Ashley has been involved with theatre and music.

While in Bombay, he worked with directors choreographers like Alyque Padamsee, Krishna Bhargava, Celia
Lobo, Karla Singh, Salome Roy Kapoor and others in several productions. To name a few : Best of Broadway,
Grease, Cascades, They‘re Playing Our Son, Cabaret, Evita
Afterwards, he moved overseas to live in Sydney, Australia. There he studied dance at the Bodenweiser Dance

Centre (under the late Margaret Chapple) and the much-reputed Sydney Dance Company (under Jane Beckett
and Sue Ellen Chester).

Ashley has trained in Classical Ballet, Jazz and Contemporary styles of dance for over 5 years and performed in
several musicals as well as worked in television in Australlia.
Theatrical works overseas, among others, include: The Nutcracker — Ballet Theatre, Queensland, The Wiz —

Barre Theatre Co., Sydney, West Side Story - Barre Theatre Co., Sydney
He has also done television and promotional work with numerous international stars - Peter Andre, Danni Minogue
and the Teen Queens to name a few.

Ashley always enjoyed doing choreographies, therefore during brief visits to India, he choreographed many
musicals for theatre groups such as: West Side Story 1989, Jesus Christ Supterstar 1994, Me and My Girl 1994,
Fiddler On The Roof 1995, Matilda 1996, Les Miserables 1998, Rats 2000, Buddha 2000.

He returned to India in 1998 to set up The Dancewrox Performing Arts Company.
Besides choreographing corporate shows and commercial product launches for numerous reputed companies.
The Chorus Line (1999)

-an adaptation of the Broadway musical.

That's Dancing! (2001)
—a dance extravaganza.
Ashley has had a regular spot on television every morning on the Good Morning India Show on Star Plus for
over a year in 2000. He also choreographed the following shows:
Republic Day Parades of 2000 and 2001 .
Jesu Krist Jayanti 2000, a show organised by the Goverment of Delhi to celebrate 2000th anniversery of the birth
of Christ.
United for Gujarat, a show that featured bands from India (Euphoria & Silk Route), Pakistan (Junoon) and
Bangladesh (Miles).
The Centenary celebrations of The Taj Hotel, Mumbai—January 2003

He is also working as a choreographer on English Film -"Othello — Black & White" (Vijayeta Films) to be
released end 2003 in India. He has written and directed - "Divided Past, Shared Future", a theatre production
which toured two cities of the Netherlands. This show also toured Delhi and Mumbai in mid—October 2002. This
was conceptualised to celebrated 400 yeas of Indo—Dutch relations.
Ashley has recently written and directed "About Nothing" a dance theatre production featuring Barry John
and
The Dancewrox Repertory Dancers for The Old World Theatre Festival held at the IHC on 21 st & 22nd September
2003 .
Ashley has been currently occupied with teaching and choreographing:
National School of Drama Repertory Company, IMAGO—(Barry John‘s Acting Institute), The Dancewrox Repertory
Company.

