Narbor/tab School/ of Dru/max Repertory Compamy
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in
1964—65 on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi.
In the beginning, it consisted of only four actors. It
later expanded into a larger group of actors, musicians
and technicians, mainly drawn front graduates of the
National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964 late Shri
Om Shivpuri led the company and later in 1977, Shri
Manohar Singh became the first regular Chief of
Repertory. When Manohar Singh left the Repertory
Company in 1985, for a short period Ms. Uttara Baokar
and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked after the functioning of
the company. Later Shri J.N. Kaushal officiated as the
chief till 1988. From 1989 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal
Bajaj was handling the company. From 1994 to 97
Shri Kaushal was again functioning as acting Chief.
From 1999 N.S.D. graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma
appointed as permanent chief of the Repertory
Company.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety
of plays ranging from stylised musicals to realistic
contemporary works of Indian drama to translations
and adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent
directors of national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have worked with the
company.
Repertory has performed over hundred and thirty ﬁve
plays by eighty ﬁve playwrights and has worked with
sixty directors. Quite a few of the actors of the
company have emerged, over the years, as celebrities
in theatre, cinema and television in India. The

/Repertory tours extensively all over India and has
made several successful trips of Germany, Poland,
Britain, Nepal and Mauritius.

Business Manager T.R. Bakhshi

Stage Manager Parag Sarmah

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in

MUSiC lncharge Om Prakash

1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary through a
major festival of his plays.

Costume lncharge Gursharan Kaur
_
Box Office Incharge S.P. Sharma

Neelam Kapoor
T.R. Bhatt

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs,
set models, costumes, properties posters etc. of
Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on the
occasion of the Silver jubilee celebration of the

Repertory Chief

Company.

Director NSD

Suresh Sharma

३ Prof. D. R. Ankur

