Theatre artiste-Cum—psychologist’s
play addresses paranoia
J.

GARIMA M [SH RA

PUNE. NOVE MBER 2
INTHE past nine months of his practice in the
ﬁeld ofclinical psychology, city-based Pankaj
Mithbhakare has come across many patients
whosuffered from paranoia — a mental con—
dition in which the patient's behaviour is
ruled by fear and anxiety. wherein he behaves irrationally, starts distrusting others
and makes false accusations. One of his pa—
tients story forms the plot of his Marathi theatrical experiment titled Kavadsa. “However.
since it's a drama. 1 have taken creative freedom and added some ﬁctional elements to
the story."says Mithbhakare. addingthat the
drama not only delves into the illness butalso
suggests ways to deal with it.
' I“ वसा-ह-रटा-ल
Basedon the backdrop ofbeinginsecure in
love, the play's plot revolves around an unmarried couple. in which the man gets pos- . The playwill be staged atAnnabhau Sathe Natyagruha on November 6.
sessive about the woman and accuses her of
having a relationship with her professor.
nearly40 mentally—challenged kids. The play
There‘s a thin line between displaying pos— Based on the backdrop of being
is produced by Ab—Normal Home and
sessiveness as a sign of love and displaying
insecure in love,the play’s plot
Nirmohi Creations. and stars Pravin
possessiveness as a sign ofcontrol and dorn—
Chowgule. MadhuriJoshi, Kishori Pathak.
inance. “When a person starts controlling the revolves around an unmarried
Prasad K'ulkarni and Amol Pathak.
life ofthe personhe/she loves toan extentthat couple, in whichthe mangets
According to Mithbhakare, a paranoid
the other person loses his/her self. it is paraperson can be intensely possessive fOr not
noia. l wanted to put forward the reasons and possessive about the woman
just a lover but also for a friend or a family
solutions for this illness and place my ﬁrm andaccuses her ofhavinga
member. Through this play, he says. the au—
stand on it through this play. Also 1 want to relationship with herprofessor
dience will gain wisdom and will begin to
putthis complex subjectthrough the medium
ernpathisewith the person who suffers from
ofplay in a very simple as wellas entertaining
paranoia. “In the play Kavadsa too. the girl. alNatyagruha on November 6 at 9.30 pm. The
manner for the audience." says Mithbhakare,
who alsohas a degree in dramatics from [alit fund raised through the play will be used for though she gets frustrated with the behavthe school named Ab—Norrnal ('Ab' means iour of her lover, handles the situation in a
Kala Kendra, University of Pune.
Written and directed by Mithbhakare. the now in English), which was founded by mature manner and helps him get a hold on
himself." says the artiste-cum-psychologist.
Mithbhakare three years ago and house
play will be staged at Annabhau Sathe
. पं _. “.- .. my ५ w ५…-१ दृच्ची-श' v— ‘- - '

क्वे'

- W’ A “TVLV y ‘ "चं V I च _

v

r

»

