The Play
Drawing on a traditional ballad Beernarayarter Pa/a
ttte play shifts the focus on to ttte heroine Sortai
Bibi who is saved front a rrtercitartt tryirtg to kidnap
her—by Beemarayan, sort of a feudal lord. As they
fall irt love, tlte village corrtmunity refuses to
acknowledge a liaison between a Hindu
Beernarayan artd a Muslim Sortai, artd drive them
out of the village. They settle lit the forest and get
married. But Beemarayan’s father has his sort
arrested artd his eyes gouged. The blind young man
goes out seeking Sonai, who pines for him till
nature takes her away. Using conventions drawn
front classical Sanskrit theatre practice, the produc—
tion offers a critique of religious fundamentalism
raising its ugly head irt Bangladesh.

The Director
Kamaluddin Nilu (A M
Kamaluddin), borrt 1955, ttas
been Associate Professor
(1994-2000) arid Assistant
Professor (1985-94) of
Dramatic Arts, Department of
Fine
Arts,
Chittagong
University. He itas a diploma
irt Dramatic Arts from Natiortal School of Drarrta,
Delhi, artd art MA irt Sociology front Dhaka
University.
Kamaluddin Nilu has directed around 35 plays
which ttave been produced by the Centre for Asian
Theatre, of which he has been Founder Secretary
General, artd now Artistic Director; National
Academy of Pertormtng At ts (Striipakala Academy),
Bangladesh; as well as by various theatre groups irt
Bangladesh and abroad. Kamaluddin Nilu’s direc—
torial work ltas over the years becorrte increasingly
experimental with blending of rrtoderrt and tradi—
tiortal forms, techniques artd devices which for
rrtost productions also irrtply extensive use of
colour symbolism and widely known metaphors as
well as a combination of dialogue, music, arid
movement. He is widely known as an unconverttionai interpreter of lbsen‘s plays. ills directorial
work covers a wide range of plays, from classical
Sanskrit artd Western plays through plays by
Shakespeare, Moliere, Brecht artd Heiner Mueller to
plays written by Tagore arid contemporary western
playwrights. Kamaluddin Nilu has irt recent years
increasingly also involved himself irt community
theatre attd is a pioneer irt Bangladesh irt theatre for
children. Many of his titeatre productions itave also
been staged irt lndia, Japan, Taiwan, Sweden artd
England.
His recent directorial works are Henrik lbsen‘s
Brand, Thomas Berrthard’s Immanuel Kant, Franz
Kafka’s The Metamorphosis arid Sonar’br‘bir Pa/a, a
play based on art East Bengal ballad.
Nilu is also art experienced actor, although
directorial work has occupied art irtcreasirtg share
of his time. Front 1978 ortwards, he itas acted the
main characters irt four stage plays, tert TV serials,
a number of TV and radio plays artd four feature
films. ills latest stage performance itas been irt The

Lesson (2001). He also wrote the script arid
directed the television film Journey into the
Night (2001), arid is the director of the video
film Silent Departure (2002). He ltas received
awards several times as tlteatre director artd
actor.

lrt his capacity as Secretary General of CAT,
Kamaluddin Nilu ltas been the cortvertor of the
rrtaior tour international conferences organized
by CAT. He itas also given master classes at
international theatre festivals artd has presented
papers at several international conferences,
including the Cltiayi Art Festival on Tropic of
Cancer, Taiwan 2005, the 9th lrtterrtatiortal lbsen
Cortference arid conferences organized by
international Federation of Theatre Research
(lFTR) .

Director’s Note
Sonaib/bir Pa/a is a narrative theatrical performartce alortg with music, songs and dance; corn—

FWT. 9— ५ल्यपू
\3 [Lt'is

'

