ssaua 3H1 ilUUd HVSVNLVHH .LNVNEIH $955.99},

Synopsis
Beernarayan. son of a feudal overlord. walking along the bank of a river. sits under a tree and falls asleep. A maiden‘s
scream wakes him up. He finds a merchant trying to kidnap Sonaibibi. He fights with the merchant and saves
Sonaibibi's lite.
Beernarayan is a young Hindu whereas Sonaibibi is a Muslim. They fall in love with each other. But the community declares both Sonai and Beernarayan persona non grata in the village artd bartishes them from the village.
Ousted front the village. they settle down in a forest and get married. Beernarayan's father is determined to punish his son.
One day. Beernarayan sets out to collect food leaving Sortai alone in the jungle. Beernarayart is arrested by his
father's soldiers. who bring him to his father. On his orders his eyes are gouged out for the sin of violating the religious code and marrying a Muslim girl.
The blinded Beernarayan goes around looking for her beloved wife Sonai. 0n the other hand. Sonai is waiting for
her dear husband Beernarayan. At the end. Nature takes her away.

The Group
Centre for Asian Theatre (CAT). anon-profit professional theatre company. set up in 1996. carries theatre to the small
towns. addresses burning social issues: with art increasing focus on traditional theatrical forms, folk forms and classical Sanskrit theatre. It has produced plays by Ibsen. Thomas Bernhard. Heiner Mueller, Bhasa. Kalidasa and Tagore.
and plays based on African myths and Bangladesh ballads.
CAT was the first. and is still the only. professional theatre organization in Bangladesh. CAT productions have par—
ticipated in numerous international theatre festivals held in countries like India. Japan. Sweden and Taiwan. Some of
them were plays or musicals (like Bhe/uasundan') based on ballads of East Bengal. some were adaptations of Sanskrit
plays like Urubnangam by Bhasa or a play like Rafa by Rabindranath Tagore And in other cases CAT has presented
The Lesson by Eugene lonesco or The Miss/on by Heiner Mueller
Along with theatre training and practice. CAT has conducted activities in theatre research. seminars. workshops.
conferences and festivals. and publications on their basis.
In 2006. CAT proposes to organize art International Ibsen Conference on The Socio-political Aspects of lbsen's
Plays and an International Theatre Festival—Staging Ibsen in Asia—from 11 to 18 May 2006.
\

,_.,.

..

‘
Centre for Asran Theatre Plot: 100 101. Avenue 1. Block D Section 2. Mirpur. Dhaka. Bangladesh 1216.
श्चिध्याक्कच्चिच्चाश्चन्धीश्याद्धां
046F9
ax: 0088028012688 Email:
tca‘t@bdmai| net. nilucat@bangla. net
II‘S“--.—.—गृआंहुँड्डूअंश्लीक्ति R .

.

*3 “Hunt SCIINIl or आशा।

