The Royal Hunt of the Sun

diers. The Spanish chronicler Pedro de Cieza de Leon, who
as a soldier had covered thousands of miles from the Caribbean coast to Bolivia, regarded the highways of the Incas to
be the finest in the world: "In the memory of man, no highway is as great as this, laid through deep valleys and over
high mountains, through snow-banks and quagmires,

through live rock and along raging rivers; in some places
smooth and paved, in others tunnelled through cliffs, skirt-

ing gorges, linking snow-peaks with stairways and rest
stops; everywhere clean-swept and litter-free, with lodgings,
store-houses, and temples of the sun.” Of the Spanish soldiers he was to say: “The daring of the Spaniards is so great
that nothing in the world can daunt them. No other race can
be found which can penetrate through such rugged lands,
solely by the valour of their persons and the forcefulness of
their breed, without bringing with them wagons of provisions or tents in which to rest, or anything but a sword and
a shield, and a small bag in which they carried food.”
But as they looked down on Cajamarca from a distance, a
Spanish soldier was to recount: "The Indians’ camp looked
like a very beautiful city. So many were the tents that we were
ﬁlled with fright. We never thought that the Indians could
occupy such a proud position, nor so many tents, so well set
up. It ﬁlled all of us Spaniards with confusion and fear. But
we dared not show it, much less turn back, for if they sensed
the least weakness in us, the very Indians we brought with

us would have killed us. So with a show of good spirits, after
having thoroughly surveyed the town and tents, we descend—
ed into the valley below and entered the town of Cajamarca.”
De Soto rode into the Inca’s camp, carrying an Indian
interpreter behind him on his horse, hoping to overawe the
king with his fiery steed. The Indians had never seen horses
before, and thought they were invested with magical powers.
Atahuallpa received the Spanish emissary outside his bathhouse, surrounded by his wives and courtiers. "Two pipes of
water, one hot and one cold, entered the bathing pool.” De
५-

16

