Death of the Inca — Atahuallpa

Outraged by the harsh, insulting tone of the friar, Atahuallpa accepted from him the prayer-book which the Christian claimed “spoke the truth.” He looked at it, put his ear to
it; shook it. It was silent; it did not speak to the Inca king. He
ﬂung it down. Aghast at this act of desecration, Valverde
picked it up, and in a loud voice called on Pizarro to avenge
this insult to the Christian faith and to Charles I, the Holy
Roman Emperor.

Yelling their war-cry “Santiago!” the Spaniards startled the
unsuspecting and unarmed Indians with the thunder of their
cannon; mowed them down with a cavalry charge, and then
slashed at them and hacked them down with their heavilyarmed infantry. Pizarro and his officers cut their way towards Atahuallpa, severing the hands of his litter-bearers
who, though mutilated, continued to hoist the king on their
shoulders, and, as they fell, were replaced by others. But

despite their tenacious loyalty, they could do little with their
bare hands against the steel-plated might of the Spaniards.
Eyewitnesses claimed that between two and eight thousand
Indians were slaughtered in that one assault. Atahuallpa put
the number at seven thousand. Not a single Spanish soldier
was killed or hurt; and the only wound suffered was by
Pizarro himself who, while parrying a thrust against Atahuallpa by one of his own soldiers, had his arm slashed.

Atahuallpa was held hostage. As ransom, he was made to
fill a room 17 feet by 22 feet once with gold and twice with
silver. The Temple of the Sun at Cuzco was pillaged, 700
plates of gold being wrenched away from the temple friezes.
The Inca General, Chalcuchima "had his arms burned and

his tendons shrivelled” by De Soto to make him reveal hidden hoards of gold. The Spaniards looted the capital Cuzco,
which was 1000 miles away, returning with 285 loads of the

most exquisite gold objects, on the backs of llamas and requisitioned porters. From another city, Jauja, came 107 loads
of gold and 7 of silver. By the middle of 1533 more than 24
tonnes of precious gold objects were collected. Nine furnaces
____————

19

