Pizarro ’s Wound

ergy and enthusiasm of the people. Traditions and conventions are defences against individualism and independence
of thought; they are devices created by a society to give itself
a sense of homogeneity and to develop a sense of security.

But in actual fact what held the Spanish people together
(and, by implication, present-day western society) are greed
and avarice, the urge for material well-being, without a spiritual centre —- an attitude that arouses the worst instincts in
man .

The "great age of discovery” came about as a result of swift
advances in science and technology. The blind religious faith
of the Middle Ages was replaced by the power of reason and
by man’s capacity to comprehend, subjugate, and bend to
his own purposes the powers of nature. The spread of the
printed word; the compulsive might of literacy; the discovery
of gunpowder; the charting of desert and ocean and mounting chain; the opening up of trade routes east and west, over
land and sea developed in western man a spirit of self-assurance, which soon turned to arrogance and a sense of superiority over peoples conquered through brutal force of arms.

At the present-day peak in technological advance, western
civilization is faced with a crisis: a society with a predatory
strategy based on the crassest materialistic values is bound
to spell its own destruction. Unfortunately it destroys at the
same time much more ancient and sophisticated cultures
which happen to be its prey and the object of its greed.
The blind pursuit of material wealth is at the expense of
the spirit, and without a spiritual core man is no more than
a hollow shell — whatever he touches turns to dross. The
Christian Church, perverted from within, and succumbing

to pressures from the temporal world can no longer offer
spiritual solace acceptable to modern man. The missionary
zeal of the Church, which strove to save the souls of heathens
by bringing them to Christ, has been replaced by the equally
__—_——

22

