The Royal Hunt of the Sun

ardent rapacity of the multi-nationals who seek to placate the
physical and material needs of societies which have suffered
deprivation for centuries.

The expedition is launched with skill and cunning of a high
order; it is pursued with astounding diligence and indomitable will: the will to succeed; to overpower; to destroy. It is as
tenacious in its purpose as it is perverse in its objectives. It
employs all forms of stratagerns — commercial, military,
psychological. It exploits and perverts those humane and
civilized values which an ancient culture has nurtured
through centuries of growth and maturation: innate courtesy, honesty, trust. These values are interpreted by the west
as symptoms of weakness. They are hypocritically pandered
to so long as they serve its purpose; then they are brushed
aside with contempt.
And in this form of desecration, the Church, the very
upholder of spiritual values, of truth, and the so-called Christian virtues, is a willing collaborator. Not only has it come to

terms with the temporal power of the State, but it has in fact
emerged as its most active agent. (Here, Charles I is not King
of Spain alone: he is head of the Holy Roman Empire as well.)
The wealth and power of the West is what it has unceremoniously and sanctimoniously looted from other cultures;
it has cunnineg and cynically destroyed those cultures
through diseases of the body and the mind. Diseases of
syphilis, small-pox, and plague brought from the West decimated entire societies. And, likewise, through sustenance for

the body and the mind (fast foods and multi-channel T.V.)
they have in our own day spread swift epidemics of mass
destruction. Violence; the abuse and perversion of sex, that
aspect of life which is at the very core of human existence; the
break-up of the family as a social unit; intellectual contamination through specious and fallacious views of history and
culture are only some of the forms of this pernicious onslaught — a form of death that long-deprived and exploited
societies seem only too eager to embrace.
५

23

