RAM DAYAL SHARMA
A Music teacher, composer, actor, singer, writer and director, Ram
Dayal Sharma has won numerous awards and citations (or his work.

Ram Dayal Sharma is one ol the most renowned artists oi Swang,
Raas and Nautanki tolk torms in the country. He is the Guru (senior
most teacher) oi the lamous "Swami-Khera" Gharana (tradition) ol

Raas leela, Swang and Nautanki ol Mathura-Bharatpur region ol Uttar
Pradesh and Raiasthan.

His musical and theatrical compositions have been pertormed in Theatre
Royal and Tara Arts, London UK, Japan, Germany, Bulgaria, S.
Korea, Australia, Thailand, Norway, etc. He has participated in many pertormances organised by
Unicet, The Sangeet Natal< Academy, National School of Drama, Sahitya Kala Parishad, Apna-

Utsav, Urdu Academy, Sarthi Group all over India.
A composer and actor/singer, he has contributed to productions in modern theatre also - Agra

Bazar (Dir-Habib Tanvir), Sharvilak And Chhuppu Khan (Dir-Bansi Kaul), Ganga maati (Dir— R.G.
Baiai), Mithya Abhimaan, Paryavaran, Andher Nagari, Harayali (All Dir. by Shanta Gandhi),

Chhuk-Chhuk Gadi (Dir-Dr. Mayer, Germany), Naya Gokul (Dir-JN. Kaushal) and Motu Ki Moonchh

(A puppet play dir. by Dadi Padamiee) amongst others - all of which he also pertormed in as actor
and leading singer.

His credits as Director and composer ot Nautanl<i/Swang Productions are too numerous to list (over
3,000 productions). Some of the notable ones, which he also wrote and designed include. Ji Hazoor,
Beti Ka Byah, Shri Krishna Sudama, Lakar Hara, Roti Kapara Ghar, Harit Vahini, Subah Ka
Bhoola, Raia Bharthri. Those in which he also acted include : Arnar Singh Rathor, Indal Haran,
Mastani Guiari, Satyavan Savitri, Aalha oudal, Padmavati, Jhansi Ki Rani, Syah Posh (Pak

Mohabbat), Harishchandra Taramati, etc.

A teacher at the Bal Bhavan (Youth Academy) in New Delhi (or the past 26 years, he is responsible
(or the training ol adults and children in all Forms of Indian Music including classical, lolk,
modern Theatre. In addition to Raas, Swang and Nautanki, he is also a specialist in Ram—Lila,

Bhaians, Katha Vachan, Saang and Parsi Theatre.
Apart from theatre, he has also composed music and has done playback singing tor lilms and
electronic media that includes ’Tadak Dham Dham’ by Ramesh Sharma and Pankai Baipayee, ’Rahna
Nahin Desh Birana hai’ (a To m.m. Film), live Short Films (or Human Resource Ministry, 0 serial

"Sangharsh", all directed by his son Devendra Sharma, a teletilm "Kaun" directed by Ajay Sharma,

two telelilms directed by Ashok Chakradhar etc.
Ram Dayal Sharma is. also a regular broadcaster on All India Radio and Doorsarshan. He is a
visiting protessor and examiner in Music and folk theatre at the National School of Drama New
Delhi. He has also taught at the Jamia Millia Islamia, Lady Irwin and Zakir Hussain College.

