SHRI RAM CENTRE ACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre tor PerIorming Arts grew out oI what was originally known as the Indian National
Theatre in I 948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural Scene. A leading Cultural Organization, its
obiective is to nurture and develop talent in the pertorming arts and its programmes are organised to-

wards this end.

Theatre Repertory :
Started in I 980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one ot the leading companies of the country. The
repertoire ot outstanding plays pertormed by the Repertory including Sakhararn Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin
Dekhya Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuii & Pagla Ghoda have contributed signiIicantIy to Hindustani drama
in the country. Besides pertorming regularly in Delhi, the Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other
parts at the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern plays in various styles and
torms under the direction at such eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Raiendranath,

B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has perlorrned 53 Hindi plays since its inception.

Acting Course :
To encourage young amateurs, the Shri Ram Centre tor Pertorming Arts conducts a two-year part-time

training programme. The Ist year is devoted to in-depth study on all aspects ot theatre and in the 2nd year
the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western
and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of Actors to sustain the Hindi-

theatre’s tuture. Stbdents who complete the course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory or join the National School at Drama or the media.
Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures :

The Shri Ram Memorial lectures held annually since I 986 are aimed at presenting and documenting the
lite-time achievements ot theatre Iurninaries oi the century. The three days lecture sessions delivered earlier

by such tamous theatre personalities as Utpal Dutt, Habib Tanvir, Badal Sircar, Nemichand Jain, Viiay
Tendulkar etc. are published by us Ior theatre posterity.

Children Theatre Workshop :
The SRC Children Theatre Workshop is one-month production oriented workshop conducted during Surnrner vacation every year under the guidance ot a renowned Camp director. This Ieature is aimed to impart
theatrical values to children and to improve their communication skills.

