AB C) UT A_S M I TA
Asmita' stands committed to aesmetically innovative and socially relevam. theatre. It
takes up contemporary issues to underline the contours of our time while providing
the best of entertainment. So far the group has staged Bhishma Sahni's "I--lanoosl'i”(26
shows), Albert Camus' Caligula' (2! shows), Raghuvir Cl'iaudhary's 'Sikandra
Sani (one for Urdu Academy Festival - 93 ), Dr. (Sirish Karnad's "Tughlaq' (l7
shows), 'Rakt - Kalyan' (36 shows), Dr. Dharainvir Bharti's 'Andhayug' (9‘ shows),
Brecht's Exception & the Rule (street play) Shakespeare's
lulius Caeser (8
shows)& Merchant of Venice (as 'Dilfarosh‘ for Urdu Academy's festival ’96 ),
Eugene O'Neil's Desire under the Elms (I 4 shows), Swadesh Deepak's Court Martial (50 shows), Narendra Mohan s Qalander (Urdu Academy‘s Festival I997),

Dario Fo's Operation Three Star (26 shows) Mahesh Dattani’s Final Solutions
(22 shows) and Ashok Lal‘s Ek Marnooli Aadrni (22 shows) Swadesh Deepak's
Sabse Udaas Kavita (6 shows). Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar" ('2. shows).
All under the direction of Aravind Gaur.
In support of people's struggle against victimisation, "ASMITA" gave street - sl'iows of
Safdar Hashmi's Aurat (36 times) and Chicago I 886 (76 times), Saniha jahan (2|
shows) and Tasveer (I 7 shows).
As an umbrella organisation to healthy theatre activities, "ASMITA" organised workshops
and productions at different colleges in Delhi such as Lady Shri Ram College
(Brecht's 'Causcasian Chalk Circlu'), at Indraprastha College (Brecht's The
Good Person of Setzuan), Bhishar'r Sahni's I‘ladhavi at Gargi College (Bhishma
Shani's 'Madhavi'), Jawahar Lal Nehru University (Madhavi) at School of r'"lanning &
Architecture (Dario Fo's Accidental Death of an Anarchist). The group Organised
the solo performance of Piyush Mishra. which entl'iralled the audience "८त्:य९ jaipur and
Calcutta.
In its endeavour to encourage acrive interaction between the tl'iea‘ixe con'imunity and

theatre lovers, Asmita has organised seminars with theatre [1६:३35८3८१३1।हेंदांरुइ१5 like l-labih
Tanvir and I’lehesh Dattani and recently a playreading session with ९3.1२ Desnpande.
Recently, ASMITA staged "Brecht-98" ~ 3 recitation of Brain‘s poem by ASNETA
members.
In recognition of its endeavours, the group has been invited to perform "Court

Contacts : 21 1 65 54 , 3510940. 68 5O4 O9 , 6180505 Ema i I : ट s m i taSi 2

ho tma i I . co n‘.

I'T

‘.' l ३३ हैं ‘ ‘ '

Theatre Festival in Calcutta‘and Kalyani and also at Jabalpur and Lucknow.

'

"ASMITA" has also performed
"Chayanika" in Dibrugarh (Assam) and lan'imi, &
Kashmir, 'F‘inal SOlUtIOlIS' and "Ek Mamooli Admi" In Jabalpur (‘v’evechana National
FeStivaI) and "Operation Three Star" in Begu Sarai. "Firal Solucions" was
performed at the Scindia School, Gwalior and in the Drama Festival organised in
Gwalior (in memory of late BM. Shah, the noted theatre director). Recently. in
August I998, ASMITA was invited as the lone Hindi entry, to perform "julius Caesar"
at Dibruagarh for the National Shalespeare Festival organised by ="Chayanika"
theatre group and at Sibsagar (Assam) by ONGC. In December l 9'98, ASlVllTA was
invited to perform "Ek Mamooli Admi" at the famed Nandikar international

. >: pre हरु ions

Martial" as the only entry in Hindi at National Drama Festival at Calicut (Kerala).

