YAATRA
Yatra - The Journey - is a modest attempt to recreate on
stage some of the sequences from the works of
LATE SHRI MOHAN UPRETI as a tribute to a humanist
and artist who sought inspiration from his roots and the
toiling masses. Born on 17th February 1928, in Almora,
Uttaranchal, Upreti obtained his Masters degree in
Diplomacy and International Affairs and Senior Diploma
in Hindustani Classical Vocal Music from Allahabad
University.

contemporary stage, creating a number of choreographic
compositions which were staged on different occasions in
Delhi and other cities ofthe county. The artistic qualities of
these compositions were so superb that the Indian Council
for Cultural Relations sponsored the Kendra to present its
programmes in foreign countries. These presentations
received rave reviews in the foreign press. Apart from
strengthening the Kendra, he composed music for various

prestigious productions.
From ensemble works of great beauty, his creative genius
was reﬂected in stage adaptations of folk ballads investing
them with a rare insight and contemporary ring. The ﬁrst

work of this dimension was Rajula Malushahi in operatic

Inspired by the late Shri RC. Joshi, he was to join
trade union movement but a chance meeting with
Late Shri Mohan Singh Bora, one of the exponents of
Malushahi, a folk ballad of Kurnaon, changed the course of
his life. Enchanted by Bora’s music, he decided to devote his
life to the enrichment, preservation, promotion and
presentation of folk art. He launched a cultural movement
to explore the artistic wealth ofthe Central Himalayan region.
To achieve this goal and involve the masses, he formed Lok
Kalakar Sangh at Alrnora. To him folk culture has universal
appeal and its message is optimistic, world outlook stirred,
he felt a sense ofelevation as he interacted with folk singers.
Like Maxim Gorky, he too discovered in folk tales a free and

fearless force that wanted to make life happy and rich. But
in the wake of Sino-Indian border conﬂict, he was detained
in 1962 and after release he was forced to stay in Delhi.
An inspired folklorist and a creative thinker, he was the
moving spirit behind the formation of the Parvatiya Kala
Kendra — Delhi in 1968 and became its founder artistic
director. Initially, the Kendra started to adapt the folk dances
and songs of Uttaranchal to the requirements of

‘I/VitFL ﬁest Compﬁnwntsﬁ‘om

style. Its haunting and captivating music, powerful theme
and universal appeal offered a new theatrical experience and
it was hailed by critics and lovers of art as a landmark art
work in the history of musical theatre in the Hindi region.
Emboldened by this tremendous success, Upreti continued
to conceive and produce operas like Ajwa Bafaul,
Mahabharat, Bhana Gangnath, Haru-Heet and many other.
He did not conﬁne himself to the recreation of Uttranchal
folk art alone. His Megh Doot, Inder Sabha and Arnir
Khushro are lauded as superb operatic wokrs which
immensely enriched the great tradition of Indian theatre.
Structurally, Yaatra is episodic but the innovative device of
the narration seeks to create an artistic whole. The mosaic
reﬂects the complex artistic journey of a creative mind which
strove to achieve artistic excellence and explore the mystery
of the word of art.
A multi—faceted persnality, Upreti is no more with us but his
work will continue to serve as a beacon to light the path of
future artists.
— Dewan Singh B ajeli

‘Witﬁ Q3e5t Compﬁrrwnts from

H |MALAYAN
PROPERTIES & CONSTRUCTION
Deals in :
Vasundhra, Vaishali, lndrapuram,
Noida and Greater Noida Properties
Contact
Shri Anil Raturi & Shri S. P. Chamoli
15/341, Sector-15, Near Water Tank,
Vasundhra, Ghaziabad-201010
Tel. : 91—4881806, 4882975

Exporter & wholesale Dealer of
Nepali Arts Indian Handicrafts

G-11, Allied House, 1 Local Shopping Centre
Madangir, New Delhi-1 10 062, India

Tel. : 91-11—6087570, 6088249, 6086621
Mobile : 98100 37586 (F?) 6525374
E-mail .’ negigs @ndf. vsnl. net. in

