of the various
future. Such a theatre, we thought would only emerge out
folklore of that regio n, of which the ballads constituted the strongest and the
lived by them for
Beeing the unwritten records of the life of the prOple, as
any the
lap of the Himalayas, they seemed to offer a very strong potential for

segments of the
riCehest source.
centuries in the
atrical venture.

the folk ballads of
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting
first attempt of its
the
was
hahi
Kumaon & Garhwal to contemporary stage. Rajula—Malus
background culture and folk
kinds. Shri Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely frmiliar with the
. covered only half of the
traditions of that region, prepared the first script which, however
an operatic form. The first
ballad. The script was in Kumaoni, and was produced in
to packed houses.
performance of this production was given in 1980 at Kamani
Encouraged by tremendous response we received, we decided to present the full ballad.
It was produced & presented in 1981. This production was a turning point in the life of the
Parvatiya Kala Kendra. It was remarkable in the sense that for first time a production of

this dimension Was mounted capturing the essence of the cultural heritage of the people
of Uttarkhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod

Nagpal and V.M. Badola performed in the production alongwith many fresh entrants to theatre
and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directed it. The script, as of
earlier, was that of Shri Briendra La] and musical score was that of Mohan Upreti. Since this
event the Kendra did not look back. Every year it has taken up a new ballad of the region
and given it a dramatic form. The wide spectrum of the folklore; of the region that have been

covered are given below in the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES

1968

Founded as Registered Society.
Uttarkhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.

1969

Repeat performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.

1969

Uttarkhand Folk Songs and Dances, AIFACS Hall. Inaugurated by Late Smt

Gandhi.
l969-197l

'

Repeat Performances at Rashtratpati Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, Gandhi Darshan
USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditoriun, INT Hall, and Doordarsan.

1971

I CC. R Sponsored performances in Sikkim.

l 972—76

Repeat Performances for Dell1i<hased Uttarkhand people at Ramakrishnapuram
Lodhi Colony, Talkatora Stadium . Aiwane—Galib, Red Fort (Kumaoni B lilZlIlOlI
III-Regiment), Tin Murti Bhawan. Maviankar Hall, TV recording for New Year
Programme.

Repeat Performances for Uttarkhand people based in bombay, Jaipur, Kotdwar
Rishikesh and Moradabad.
’

