”6 ”O “Oम O m“ m09 ”i?”69”..“O“O“O“ 6 है“mom.OC“m om.

INDE R SABHA _
(Producer’s Note)
MO HAN U PR ETI

“omnomv'm OWWW ०९

Parvatiya Kala Kendra feels great pleasure in presenting the nearly hundere
d fifty years

on musical play ’INDER SABHA’ written by One Shri Krishna Bihari
Shukla ‘Amanat‘ of
Lucknow. It was first presented by the Nawab of Avadh, Wajid Ali Shah
in his ‘Parikhana’

situated in his famous Lucknow Baradari. It may be relevant to ask. as to why
the Parvatiya
Kala Kendra, which has so far been specialising only in presenting theatrical adaptati
ons of
folk ballads of Kumaon and Garhwnl, has all of a sudden taken upon itself
the onerous

- responsibility of persenting this classical musical play written
in Urdu, Hindi and other
non-pahari sub-languages spoken in the Hindi speaking
belt of North India. I have only two
answers to offer-firstly this play reflects in ample measure
the composite character of our

great artistic and cultural traditions, and secondly its
presentation style. particularly the
musical mode of dialogues is very akin to the features of the
theatrical traditions prevalent in
Uttarakhand, for instance the Ramleela. I may also
add here that our artists belonging to this
generation have greatly been benefited by the exper
ience of encountering the creative blend of
५`

'रे---------.

. the classical and non-classical

musical. traditions, which constantly occur in
the play.

- Considered from this point of View, I would
prefer to treat it as a Workshop production
.
MUSIC OF INDER SABHA- I feel this
play highlights the importance of music
of
theatrical productions, and deserves special
mention. One really is strvck by the imagi
nation

of the playwright who (11.6119]..1:.1..11911111]21,
use various musical forms, both classical and
त्मा

non-classical, as theatrical idoimto convey
the story, which by itself is otherwise
very thin.
and one dimensional, There are no prose
dialogues, except for recitational passages
occuring at
and there. There is no scope for inten
se dramatic charcterlsation. The story
is very simple. In
fact it is the continuation of the ancient
Pururava-Urvashi myth. Sabza Pari
(Urvashi) falls

