A Note
From

»

The Director
India,
“inder Sabha” has a lot of significance in the world of playwriting in
written
viz.
nce
importa
perhaps not becuase it is. a very skilled script but for its historical
done by Wajid Ali
in the mid 19th century during pre-Bhatatendu peroid

in king’s Court and belived that Shah had acted as Indra’ himself.

Shah staged

Further, looking at

king's taste Wajid Ali could
it one could simply draw the script was tailon-made to the
and dance, hOpefully,
relate himself to ’Indra' as a great appreceator of music
Thus, the-myth and history go together. while leaving a free hand for a producer
to fit in the details. ,As a script one has the list of songs and very rhyming dialogues.
s”. To
However, doing it today means bringing to life the great tradition of "Iridiannes
Urdu-Hindi
note, Indra - Wajid Ali Shah rythm - contemporary understanding reflected in
combination various styles of singing, rythrns dance forms - all blended to give you an

evening full of Rasa. ‘Inder Sabha’ profoundly suggests a very prograssive thought and
attitude towards the tradition of Art that is, the keeper of tradition is not (a mere spider
who creats a beautiful web and dies within it, rather he should identify with the bees
who collect honey from various sources and stores it in a beautiful hive which is very
*

strong to be easily broken.

Since the singing skill dominates the presentation design of the play.

The major

contribution is made through the singing actors and actresses. 'l'ruthfully, I have regards for
this young team, as its members are in the process of carrying out the tradition
progressively.

Tradition, as I understand it, is carried out by two elements, one, the atma (Spirit)
and the padhati (procedure). The procedure is subject to change as it is mainly governed
by the times, I regret that I am not able to bring the entire script bef'or you as I doubt,
it is difﬁcult to spare five to six hours, because in a city life time mangement is a problem

with all of us.

I '

Finally, I thank Par-vatiya Kala Kendra for the second opertunity they have given
me to work with them and to you all the theatre Lovers.

S ubh a sh M cl g a ta

