The Group

The Play

Charbak

P11105chay
(The Introduction)

’Charbak' was born on January 1, 1 976.
Since then it has produced only original
manuscripts of full—length and one—act
plays. It was proud to produce recently a
dramatisation of a short story of Tagore
by Jochhan Dastidar, dramatist and
director of 'Charbak'. Besides performing
at several Calcutta stages, it has
performed its plays at various cities and

villages all over India.
'Charbak' is actively associated with the
Group Theatre Federation of which
Jochhan Dastidar is the General Secretary.
It is also an active partner in the Calcutta
Repetory Theatre. Apart from producing
plays 'Charbak' also runs a workshop
covering several aspects of theatre and
cinema production. 'Charbak's
productions during the last six years are :
1 . Padya, Gadya, Prabandha, 2. Chindiyon ki ek
jha/ar (Hindi) 3. Kumirer Kanna (one—act).
4. Thangare, 5. Aa/ker Spartacus, 6. Kamik,
7. Bhuter Begar, 8. Atha Shiksha Bic/iitra
(one-act), 9. Ka/ketu, 1 O. Kartar Bhut and
1 1. Parichay. [j

1 2

The comedy Parichay is based on various
aspects of the trade union system. The
drama moves round a powerful and
devoted trade union leader Mrinal. Mrinal
has won the faith and love of the workers
for the way he fought the management.
The circumstances change.

The almighty

capitalist Komal Seth gets his way at
last. He manages to close down the
trouble-giving factory with the help of
three other unions. Ananda, Anil and
Bijoy, the three union leaders with vested
interests. pay their homage to Komal
Seth.
The second half reveals the ‘parichay' of
these three hypocrite leaders. Their
heart—touching speeches and crocodile
tears leave the suffering wife of the dead
worker speechless. At the end the viewers
will feel the difference between the
honesty of Mrinal and the hypocrisy of
the other three leaders. The fate of the
ignorant workers is at the mercy of their
leaders. The viewers will witness the
hilarious comedy with a heavy-heart. [1
Second Annual Bangla Theatre Festival

