ABOUT SHRI RAM CENTRE
Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally
known as the Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the
Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural organization, its objective is to
nurture and develop talent in the performing arts and its programmes
are organised towards this end.

THEATRE REPERTORY :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading
companies of the country. The repertoire of outstanding plays performed
by the repertory including Sakhararn Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya
Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda have contributed
significantly to Hindustani drama in the country. Besides performing
regularly in Delhi, the Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other
parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and
modern plays in various styles and forms under the direction of such
eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Rajendranath,
BM. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has performed 66
Hindi plays since its inception.

ACTING COURSE
To encourage young amateurs, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programme. The 1 st year is devoted
to in-depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic
theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on Indian-Classical,
Experimental, Western and Modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare
a professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future.

Students who complete the course with excellent grades are either
absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School of Drama or the
Media.

SRC KAVI SAMMELAN :
Every year the Shri Ram Centre organizes a Kavi Sarnrnelan. Eminent
poets like Neeraj, Bal Kavi Bairagi, Ashok Chakradhar a. ‘.d others grace
the occasion with their poetry. The Kavi Sarnrnelan is held in the honour
of Late Lala Shri Ram.

T H E P R I N TL I N E #9 8 1 07 23 359

CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP :
The SRC Children's Theatre Workshop is a one-month production
oriented workshop conducted during summer vacation every year under
the guidance of a renowned Camp director. This feature is aimed to
impart theatrical values to children and to improve their communication
skills.

