l

"1 ‘AIIIIV

‘

.ziN;

'l‘lie hlzigiiiﬁeient
Return ()l'Godot
Bl INVITATION I FEISAI. ALKAZI
श्र

कि

Using eat 1
tra ilietap 101',
he Lining Ronni
(with ii pun on the 'livilig’) is a brave
Ilt'\\ :llleniplat writing and mounting
in llnlmn plnv ill the Iisill‘dist' ll'aiIlIltiIl \\ lining desperately to hold
५५.५1५५11८1111८ t It ५ t nlml « lmmrlt-l. :l \mlllnll si't'Ixs
1८ t ५11 no .. l:.n,;.ml \tllII [In t Il.n.n lt'l ut limth I III\
.nnll l .p‘i l n lll\ 1 |i.n .It'It'l . ९1। 1'५५1'11 । .I \u mun. .l\ liltn.ls lxilslllm. is part-lh-ill. ll.|l'l*),“|lt'sl
'llie ।."।.।९१"(प्र१।य७ना२ति८।।।।पा।:।.:
ए५पगां।।।।ता।रिमेधाहा।२य।।यना८। III I llllllu'lilllllt'tll'
'६।11<'।'11'८1।'11111.11 I I I nut-in- lulu-st u and 5.4m
|lt'I Iii'k’lu‘ll, In 11.1111८',11८३1८३11५11111 | pinptlllvlllsninl
ln.ln\ llnlluiwll IIIi‘ lunl .\ut.l|)li' .Inlullg IIll'Ill were

Slant-inn .\I|II/t । .llnl 1.1111'11५/ ।(९निहं७(९1९तौनाना। Poland.
(In l‘\ll t IIIt'I\ III Illsll I Lilultl l’lnlt'i' ~ who look |llt‘
Illttllllnll in .t mlnplt-lvl) ililti-rent (lii'ertitillv-antl
I.tl\\.ll(I \IIN't‘ III the US. Ill our country. Mal'illlll
playiiriglits e\pel'illlvnli-d \\'IIII tlil
110७111111'0७."1'11७1111'५111111'11 Maliesh
Dllal'lllu I’lllm, too, was written in this yle.
The attempt of these revolutionary playwrights
was to create a theatrical space where non~lillenr

\ltiliii‘llll1.l.;\\.lx 1… I .mg \\ mm tin-mam: lion.

emarkable feats are
his forte. Software
rofessiorial and
musician Vishwesh Bhat,
who strikes a soulful bal. alice between iuusic and
technology and is credited
for the iiewvage Kannada
fusion lllusic Karl-fusion,
launched a different kind
ofniusic album zoo/4 coritaining a record 100 songs
in October.
It‘his earlier music album
dealt only with Indian classical fusion, his latest—ii
medley of100 film songs—
is a tribute to fourlegendary
music composers ofIndia.
The Bengaluru-bnsed artist says, "I have put neutral
ragas iii between two ragas
like Yamiln (Shailkarbhar~
nnm) and Lalit (morning
rag) and even the lyrics
match one another. It took

ILLUMINA’I‘OR OF

Beauty in the Ordinary
Chennai artist Mark Ra th ina raj captures the zeitgeist oflndian
artistic
landscape through solid lines and vivid colours By imle 1९0लयनिप्रया
rurnrners ill a row holding sticls. ready to strike
the heavyChanda drums
slung across their shoulders, comealive on a largeeight-by—
six canvas. Through such strong.
bold and powerful calligraphic
lines, Mark Rathinaraj brings tolife
scenesfrom rural South India.
The Chennai~based artist. whose
work has been on display at the
Asian Art Gallery in Boston, USA,
since 2013,says his“ISaw, I Share'
series depicts the simple, yet beautiful elements of Indian life.” He

depicts the ruslit' beauty of ordi- lenging task. Through my lines I
nary people through his work. “For wanted to bring to life the move»
over उ० years, I've been capturing ments and music that we see durv
rural stories through my canvas," ing a performance,” he explains
says Ratliinaraj, originally from When Rathinaraj initiated this
T Palur. a village near the temple theme in 2000, he used brown
town of Kulnbakonam, in Tamil
and tlltriml black to bring in the
Na u.
warmthand tone oflndian culture.
Ratllinaraj has worked on over “In2007, Ijiist decided to change.I
500 worksdepicting the Indian ar- used a riot ofooloursfhe says. add~
tistic landscape, throuin his theme ing he wanted to give a contempo‘Perfarmers ofIndia", atangent of rary approachto his work
the ‘I Saw, I Share'series.
Rathinamj has explored differ“Capturing the movement of ent art forms fromBhanoinatyam
performers onto a canvas is a chal- to Gaul singers, and saysthat each

GLOBAL WIRE

piece of work is an experiment for
him. "Human imagery is at the
heart of my work, I corrununicate
what I observe," says Ratliinaraj.
His association with the Gallery
began with their inaugural show
in Boston and later his works were
rolled out at most of the IndoAmerican events in the US. 'l‘he
New England American India
Foundation Gala (AIF) event in
2014 was my ﬁrst silent auction,"
(says Rathinaraj. He shares that all
proceeds went to charity. “What
‘I've enjoyed at those shows is illteraeting with the audience. Both
Indians and ilon<lndians were
keen to know more about each
performer. This further encouraged rue to evpand my knowledge
on each art form anddwell deeper
into the series,’ says Rathinaraj,
{whose works have been presented
by the gallery at different forums,
such as the 9th Annual Chicago
Gala. The Boston International
Fine Art Show, and more recently
at Ethnic Concurrenee II, held

earlier this year. Rathinaraj says
the opportunity topresent theperformers at various platforms has
ivenhis creative pursuits. "fake
the traditional South Indian danw
form Kamgattam; their: arealmost
i .000 different subtle movement»
that the dancers present. It‘s the
rhythm, speed and spark that I
11'1511 tobring out.’ hesays.
The artist believes he has much
more to learn and experiment.
“Though I have been working on
larger-tlian-life sized cam-355. in
my free time, I've been working on
a small editionof myperformers in
pen alidink.~ he says.
Rathinaraj plans to take his Iina
to various mediums “Sculptures,
woodan metal arethe areas I'm
exploring. Like most artists, we
only have control ofthe ﬁrst step
be it on canvas or any otherme
dium. After that the art takes its
own course, and the ﬁnal result
may becompletely different from
what we had in mind. But it is re—

र.--,

2d Sand in Sydney
V- ‘he Australiancity ofSydney, known
for itsspectacular views, decked up
oneofits most popular sea coasts, join»
ing the Bondi and T'amarama beaches,
with over a hundred sculptures, many
containing messages against global
warming and poverty.
The 1.2-rriile—long coastal walkis hosting the annual outdoor art exhibition

‘Sculpture by the Sea', which ends on
Spain,attending theEid'iibitiun for the
November 8. Ondisplay are worksby art- thinly-ear, emphasised it was wellworth
ists from41 countries.
ie Visit.
The artworks showcased have been
The exhibition, held at the same venue
made out ofmaterials as varied as
since 199'), names ' , with a viewofthe
metal, glass, stone and even Barbie
cliﬁs and rock formationsoverlooldng the
dolls. “The idea is original and creative,” ocean, serving as aWarp. The erdn'biArgentine visitor Daniel leivasaid,
tion is usuallyattendedby half amillion
while Alejandra SanchezGarcia from
visitors, includingchildren
-क्या

61d Tunes Get Modern Pizzazz
Bengaluruﬁision maestro Vishwesh Bhat is back with a new album that offers
a unique tribute tofour legendary Indian music composers By MenuBIIARDWAJ

a newelement with a bit of noted Hindustani classical volved in all such events 1‘
veena and violin here and exponent Pundit Pannesh- and even took up \nluntary
there. But wehaie retained war Hedge," he adds.
teaching work,’says Bhat.
the original score.' be exIt was, however, in the
In 2007, Bhat returned
plains. Bhat, whoheads the Us in 2000 that he began to Bengaluru to be with his
musicband SvarAml-Itn, has formal recordingofhis mu- parentsandjoined [1' major
perforrned in over 5000125 sic albums. ‘It was a great Infosys. where
'
_ he “got an
sical and fusion concertsin experiencesetting up amu- opportunity to forma band
India and abroa (I. ‘
sicstudjo in the US. Myﬁrst Xprescions' in 2009. Our
His interest in‘ various album in Kannada, Ghamii first।त्९११३१९ हैं {inﬂows was
forms like folk. fildo'n, ‘ t, Ghama (a new fragrance . atten
y
arayanwestern and debutildiiiil was a hit. My first album munbyand the 3_3~m_ember
started during his college was a combined eﬁort With bandperfornledlive.
days, says Bhnt. passion my wife
I Ashivini,
.
In 2012, Bhat along with
who is a
some friends, whowere also
that only grew tronger
‘ Veenaist, says
through participation in
The next album Resur- colleagues. quit Infosyzgg *
various
college ﬁsts, inter
gence, a mix
managed to retain the
V
_
'
‘
' ofnesternand
'
collegiatecompel-dons and devotional, too received a in a newavatarSvarAmnta. I
good response Bhat who “This was a subset of the
music festivals.
‘My parents sent me for worked at a software com- earlier band and sincetlien, .-.- ‘
training in Carnatic classi» pany in Memphis, Tennes- WE have been givxng two to ८५
cal musrc
' when I was just see, forsuryears,says
‘
३ hegot four performances
’ devery
f“
‘r
'
'
leo
nunitiesto 31’- month. Usually. “9 o _me sisters
years well
Old. ’versed
wuh m)
mp ग्राम्य
in musical events
p
sion, instrumental, and if
two
in ticipate
it is devotional, I perform

-८ me-

‘44

7

11311111111111६1111'३11(11111_11131111111७1111111,1111') created ०11111७1111101'६11'1३ el'
~s ill the genre. For instance. Beekelt's It’ait lilfi)!‘ Godot written ill 19481'emainsjust
asrelevant and resonant today, whether performed
iii all insurgency-infested Kashmir or inside a US
federal prison. Other ﬁne examples 'include Pinter's
The Birthday I’m-(y. his most successful play. a dramatic descent
into a world
of s u hu rban ,
seaside Erigl all d. Se t in
a b oa rd in g
house with a
mysterious
r
Io d ge r a ll d
Ihecaslotl'lreLMngRoom
two Stran.
gers, Pinter creates a haunting comedy of menace,
while Edward Albee‘s 2002 offering The Goat, or
Who Is Sylvia? explores a man's obsessive romantic
involvement with a goat!
Intimacy. loneliness, rejection, death and a stubborn clinging on to life are the themes of Kalki's
play. Arid they run through the script, shaping the
territory, coalescing iilto one another: the use ofthe
playful pun, the ambiguity of riieaiiirlg, how each of
us understands and reads language and words dif—
ferently, the difﬁculty of and the ultimate failureof
communication. Along with these coriies a robust,
over-the—top, physical renderingofthe script. To realise such a piece requires not only'astrong-directorial visionbut also a team ofseasoned players, who
can feed off each other’s performances. By and large
the cast delivers.
Kalki's play may not prove to be popular commercially, sowhat? It provides food for thought, ideas to
chew upon. Certain images linger: the husband portrayed as a disintegrating, over-upholstered chair,
Death dressed asa woman irl blue,the constant lightning and thunder as a metaphor for God, the wobbling tea tray and ginger biscuits that bring to mind
the Mad Tea Party from Alice iii Wonderland. All in
all, it was an evening ofengagingtheatre. Certainly, a
courageous step towards breaking new ground in the
commerce-driven theatre space ofMumbai.
From this, and other productions featured, it appears that the Old World Theatre Festival, now in its
14th year, has got a new lease of life. Free from the
constraint ofcatering to a sponsor, thisyear‘s mix of
plays is a headyfare, from a monologueby aSyrianGernian actress, to Saif Hyder Hasan’s fine rendering of the relationship between Amrita Pritam and
Sahir Ludhianvi—Ek Mulaan—to Kalki’s experimental take.
-/८'द्धि८11.८11८८21@1व्यंपूँ6१11यां1.००शा

solo,"hesays.

us six to seven months to

IiIIJI is ४1५०.। ५१111९1५1111५1 .llltI 11.1५
pillilisllvtl .llmln l,|lllll 11३1९1९५111१11५३1५
८1111.1।'11111५८11५'111९'५र्वद्रा।1.1।11३।1.11५1.1।11५५

collie out with this unusual
recording which has never
beentried before.”
Bhat, 41, who has been

.

A \eisatile artist. who has I
won laurels as a singer and r
composer, Bhat is also a can
tooriist who has published ,
about a 1,oooodd cartoons

experimenting with a wide
on various themes in many

variety ofstyles and genres
for the past two decades,
says the inspiration for this
album was born at a music
workshop that he conducted. “Picking up the signature
tunesofO PNil
r, the typical Congo guitarstyle011१2।jnn-Nogendrn, the haunting
melodies of Kishorc Kumnr
and R D Ilurmnn, we added

I

[rational dailies ilnd rnagn- ,
tints. He Inn also composed .
music for light'nnd-sound y
wan Pectiln.Inynmm for the and the Indian community. shows and laser shows in
next seven to eight years," ‘The Indian Association Ahnledubad. Kanpur and …
lhxlh Gain. He recites a soul- ;‘
he shares. In 1994, he de— of Memphis. the Tarnnga
fulverse‘frrinl the Bhugrrmd है
velopeil an interest in the Kannada Sangha rind othHiluhistilni style nndlearnt ers used to hold music pm- (Il'mirlRagAhieroimtynnd y H
। I i I‘urninllv from B R grammes every weekend shares that he plans to bring ‘
.lm II i. "But formal training and speeinlly during Hindu out (In album olshlnltns in है
started only ili 1998 from festivnls. I actively gut lil- the fusion gonna next.
Bbanltanntvtlm, I imbibed
Cnrnutic III-Ilsit‘ from Vid—

Vlkllwr'll Itllnt

nor—moo

" "र"n-VV' ' " ' “ “r?a“? “V,‘Vf‘immqy-r— -1r- .. , का..

and programmes arranged
by various organisations

. ३WC.

