SYNOPSIS
‘Rani and Pintu’ is the story of a brother Pintu age: 8 years, a sister Rani age: 6 years
and their friend Munna, age: 8 years. The three children seem temperamentally
very different. Pintu appears timid, his sister Rani is full of puckish games and
Munna is like a street smart toughie.
‘Rani and Pintu’ live at home with their mother. Their father is away working in
Dubai. He comes home once in two years. They are well brought up and quite
protected by their mother who believes in being considerate and reasonable with
children though she often feels very harassed having to manage everything on her
own.
Munna lives at home with his working class father and a stepmother whom he
doesn’t particularly like. He is left to his own devices much of the time and is
expected to be tough and to fend for himself. The apparent toughness that Munna
has, appeals to his friend Pintu. Munna, however, despite a tough exterior feels
somewhat uncared for, as his stepmother punishes him all the time. His father is
authoritarian. Though he is fond of Munna he believes that sparing the rod means
spoiling the child.
The play moves from the empathy and friendship that develops between these
children who have two different kinds of upbringing, to the interactions between the
parents of these children and the children’s interactions with their own and each
other’s parents.
The situations described in the play are the everyday incidents of home. The idea
is to present a theatre piece that children and adults enjoy and appreciate, while at
the same time presenting situations that they identify with emotionally. The play
brings up many questions which children, their parents and teachers can think
about.
The discussion after the play will seek responses and reactions from the audience
encouraging them to think about similar situations in their own lives. What kind of
relationships do they have within the family, outside the family, with friends and
others. Through a creative analysis of characters and situations in the play, the
children are stimulated and encouraged to question and challenge the world they

live in.

