BI‘BBIII
Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht was ”born on February 10, 1898 in Augsburg, Southern
Germany. The seed of his lifelong hatred of "people of my own class" were sown in his family's

middle - class rnilleu, which he detested.
Appalled by the economic and political crisis wrecking Germany after World War I, Brecht
undertook an intensive and systematic study of Marxist philosophy and Economics and concluded

that the only solution to the problems besetting both his country and the world was communism.
Never fully accepted by the communist literary establishment Brecht was constantly reprimanded
for his "formalism“ for abstract treatment of the masses and for his obsession with the 'conversion of
the bourgeois to Ieftisrn'.
The Rise of Nazi Power in Germany in 1933 forced Brecht to flee from Germany in exile first in
Denmark, followed by Sweden, Finland and later in USA. In 1948, after the division of Germany
Brecht returned to his homeland, settled in East Germany and set up "The Berliner Ensemble“ where
his work portrayed a triumphant affirmation of the practical viability of many of his plays and theories.
Brecht contributed to the theatre some 40 plays, a number of adaptations and fragments and

essays that present his revolutionary theories on the formation of theatre and on staging. They can
be divided roughly into early expressionistic pieces, didactic plays, musicals, realistic dramas and
later masterpieces : Baal (1918), Drums in the night (1922), The Exception and the Rule (1930),
Mother Courage and Her Children, Galileo (1939). Brecht's first popular success came with "The
Three Penny Opera" (1 928) and later with "The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahogony" (1930), Happy
End (1929) and "TheSeven DeadIySins" (1933) etc.

Brecht was a total theatre artist whose final statement was his own production of his plays.
Although he borrowed ideas and entire plots from other writers —- RIM BAUD, VlLLION, WEDEKI ND
and techniques inspired by the stylised Oriental theatre, he created works uniquely his own. The
satirical and grotesque, so prevalent in Brecht's plays are weapons against the existing social order
and look for the ultimate transformation of the world.

