SYNﬂPSIS
Act - l
Scene - I
J onathen Jeremiah Peachum’s establishment for beggars. Flich, a beggar in need of a licence enters and
after a lot of pestring, is granted one. Peachum and his wife Celia discover that their daughter, Polly has not
come back home last night and it is Mac the Knife, London’s most dreaded criminal that she has run away with.
Scene - ll
Deep in the heart of Soho, Mac the Knife celebrates his wedding with Polly Peachum in an empty stable in
the presence of his gang members. Tiger Brown, London’s sherif and Macheath’s boyhood friend also comes
to greet the couple and assures Macheath that there is nothing against him in Scotland Yard.

Scene - I l I
For
Mr. and Mrs. Peachum discover that their daughter has married London’s most notorious criminal.
with
them this means nothing less then total ruin. They plan to report Macheath to Tiger Brown and conspire
Ginny Jenny, Mac’s favourite and most loved prostitute to get him caught.
Act - 11
Scene - I
Moor in order
After visiting Brown with her father Polly rushes to Mac to tell him to flee across the Highgate
to Polly and leaves
to escape her father’s wrath. Macheath hands over the management of his business
the gang members
All
once.
promising her that he would not go back to his whores and would leave London at
prepare for the coronation.
that he is not the kinds who
Mrs. Peach um bribes Jenny to report Macheath to the coppers as she is sure
would give up his old habits.

Scene - ll
and lands up with his whores at
Before the coronation bells have rung, Mac the Knife betrays Polly
Old Bailey.
Wapping where Jenny in turn, betrays him. Macheath finally lands up in
Scene - lll
daughter with whom he has been in
Betrayed by the whores Macheath faces both Polly and Lucy, Brown’s
with her mother. Mac wins Lucy’s love
relationship, in the goal. He denies Polly and she leaves crying bitterly
help. Peachum on knowing this warns Brown
and confidence once agal n and escapes from the prison with her
is not caught. Brown is forced to take action.
of not letting the Queen’s Procession pass peacefully if Macheath
Act - | l |
Scene — l
demonstration of misery by London’s beggers
The same night Peachum prepares for action. By means of
sion. Jenny informs him that Macheath has gone
and diseased he hopes to disorganise the coronation proces
arrested.
back to his whores. Brown sends the coppers to get him

Scene - 11
Both feel betrayed as none knows where Macheath
Polly goes to meet Lucy to enquire about Macheath.
been caught by the police again.
is. They hear voices outside and discover that Mac has
Scene - I ll
old Bailey and is about to be hanged. He tries to bribe
Betrayed by the whores again Macheath is in the
Mrs.
fails to arrange the money required. Polly, Mr. &
Smith, Brown’s assistant to escape the prison but
is about
in the prison. Just as Mac stands on the gallows and
Peachum, Lucy, Kimball and the gang assemble
nces his release.
be hanged the royal messenger comes and annou

