Feydeau's comedies are similer to Elizabethan revenge
tragedies. Both are violent physical form of theatre.
Feydeau belived that theatre iS physical experience in time
and made his comedies violently physical, at their fines they
offer a Kinesthetic experience.

Feydeau’s work can be divided into three groups that reflect the different natures of the heroines he selected. The
first group includes plays such as Monsieur Goes Huntingl,
Pass the Deal! (La main passe! 1904, The Dupe (Le dindon,
1896), A Flea in Her Ear (La puce a Ioreille, 1907) and Hotel
Paradiso (L ’hotel du libre echange, 1894). They feature middle—class women who ' ‘ breathe virtue and are forthwith out
of breath." Teetering on the edge of indiscretion, they
nevertheless strongly resent any hint of infidelity in their
mates or lovers.
The heroines Of the plays belonging to the second
group — The Girl fI'OITI Maxim '5 (La dame de chez Maxim, 1899),
I Don '1' Cheat on My Husband (je ne trompe pas mon mari,
1914). HOW to Get Rid Of Your Mistress (Un f” a la patte, 1894),
and Keep an Eye on Amelie (1908)—are frarnkly cocottes
whose seeming ‘Iunacy iS controlled by their intense concentration on piling up a substantial amount Of the material
goods Of this world, usually in the form Of jewels.

The plays of the lost group include Don’t 00 Walking
Around Naked (1911), Going to Pot (0n purge Bebe, 1910),
Leoni ls Fast (Leonie est en evance, 1911 ), and Madame '5 Late
Mother (Feu la mere de madame, 1980). They focus on an unforgettable series of shrews linked to weak or stupid men. In
these plays, Feydeau by and large dispensed with the traditional apparatus of farce—unfortunate encounters, faulty
disguises, and the like—and concentrated on the irritations
of daily life in the homes of ill— matched couples.
Feydeau's reputation suffered a decline in the decades following his death. But recently some critics have tended to
con sider him one of frances greatest comic dramatists. According to them—not even rnoliere or aristophanes rovsed
more laughter than feydeau.
Today Feydeau is performed in paris several times a
year—and he is much more alive than the most serious play
wright of his day.

