_
Synopsis of the Play
A Flea in Her Ear (La puce a /'orei//e,1907l. Sheelvati doubts
the fidelity of her husband Raibahadur Shankardass, who has
been sexually inactive for a month. She does not realize that
his behavior is due to a nervous condition, and she begins to
suspect that he has a mistress. She confides her doubts to
her old friend Tahira, who suggests that they test his fidelity.
They decide to write him a letter from a fictitious anonymous
admirer, requesting a rendezvous with him at a hotel. Since
Sheelvati is afraid her husband will recognize her handwriting, she asks Tahira to write the letter.
When Shankardass 'receives the letter,
he believes that it was actually intended for his best friend Raghunandan, a handsome
bachelor who is constantly in his company. He sends
Raghunandan off to the rendezvous in his place. Later, with
the intention of sharing his amusement, he shows the letter
to Tahira husband Arifkhan, a passionate and violent Pathan.
Arifkhan recognizes Tahira’s handwriting and assumes that
she is trying to start an affair with Raibahadur Shankardass.
He runs off to the hotel vowing to kill her in revenge.
Raibahadur Shankardass, hoping to prevent the projected
murder, also rushes to the hotel.
The presence of all the people at the hotel causes further
complications and misunderstandings. Arifkhan attempts to
shoot his wife. Shankardass sees Sheelvati with Tournel and
believes she is unfaithful. Mistaken for an alcoholic servant at
the hotel, Raibahadur Shankardass is believed to be insane.
The confusion persists even after all our reunited again at
Raibahadur Shankardass house. The true origin of the letter is
revealed when Arifkhan discovers on Sheelvati desk a rough
copy of the letter written by Lucienne. When the owner of
the hotel comes to return an article left behier by a member
of the household, he clears up the confusion between his
servant and Raibahadur Shankardass. Finally, Raymonde tells
Raibahadur Shankardass the cause of her suspicions, and he
confidently assures her that he will soon put an end to her
(31 O U DtS .

