Ramayana Should Be
India’s Soft Power Tool
BY INVITATION I ANANDA SHANKAR JAYANT
My earliest introduction to Ramayana was as a young child learning the

s h l ok a— ‘ R a m ay a R a m a b h ad ra y a
Ramachandraya Vedase’—frorn Iny
mother. As a choreographer, time and
again, I returned to the Ramayana—

‘Thyagaraja Ramayanam’, ‘Sri Rama Namam Entha
Ruchi Ra’. I also questioned ‘Is Ramarajya not for Sita?’
in my dance theatre work What about me?
Performing at Angkor Wat for the 3rd International
Ramayana Festival in Cambodia in 1997 was an unforgettable experience. Invited to convene the prestigious
Natya Kala Conference in Chennai in 2008, I chose
‘Ramayana in Performing Arts’ that was hailed as a
bench mark conference. Rama has drawn me often and
he seems to have done it again.
An invitation to the ‘One Asia in Dance Conference’
took me to Korea early this month to speak on the theme
‘Ramayana—A pan-Asian cultural narrative’.
As a story, the Ramayana marks relevance, as the
ultimate victory of good over evil. While it is obviously
black and white, the shades of grey are too subtle and
capture every artist’s imagination and angst.

The essence of the Ramayana is that it is the saga of
human heroism and magnanimity, in spite ofthe accoutrements of human characteristics. Valmiki presents

Rama as an apogee of humanity, who becomes divine
in the reader’s mind because of his actions. (Says Rama
of himself a tmanam manusam manye ramam dasar-

athatmajam). And to me, that essentially is the beauty
of the Ramayana. _
Very few literary traditions have gripped the imagination and collective conscience of the people of so many _
countries and cultures, likethat ofRamayana, which inﬂuenced art and culture of the Indian subcontinent, but

also travelled to Thailand,

हुं . mi:
{ruins nae-t“
brighter? any;
दुड्डे-च्चाड्डूड्डेड्डेहिंद्रड्डीड्डेर्द्ध soft

Indonesia, China, Cambodia, Java and Malaysia.
From the early 9th century AD, the Southeast

Asian Ramayana versions
such as the Khmer Ream-

granite?” ofthe

ker, Thai Ramakien, the
Lao Phra Lak Phra Lam,
the Malay Hikayat Seri
Rama, etc., have ﬂourished
as national epics. Enjoying a short holiday in Thailand,

of za ayaita

where the Ramayana is called Ramakien, I stood Inesmerised by the exquisite Ramayana murals on the
walls of the Grand Palace in Bangkok. I was told that
in the past 200 years, nine kings of Thailand have been
named Rama.
In the predominantly Islamic—Indonesian society,
Ramayana is owned as a proud cultural tradition, and
is a subject in most universities. Many Indonesians are

also named Rama. A fact reiterated by a speaker from
Indonesia, Dr Nursilah, who smiled from under her
head scarfto say: “My son is named Rama”.
And yet, we in India have abdicated this potent
soft power of the Ramayana. For the very best of
Ramayana festivals, we look to Indonesia, Cambo—
dia, Thailand.
Why is it that India, the land of the Ramayana, has
no international Ramayana festival or conference that
would be a congregation ofthe best of scholars and artists from across the world? Is itbecause we have subju—
gated to indoctrination that the Ramayana means you
are not secular?
The Ramayana should be an integral soft power
tool for India, with annual festivals of performing and
visual arts, research and scholarship, to build upon our
shared cultural history with the regions of South and
Southeast Asia. India must make a conscious effort to
tap into this shared cultural conscious that is a living
testimony of my strongbelief that ‘religion is personal,
but culture is civilisational’.
Ananda ShankarJayant isa serving bureaucrat anda
classical dancer, choreographer and dance scholar. She
can be contacted at anandajayant@gmail.com

