Man; “a
SYNOPSIS

OF THE PLAY

Scene I

A crowd is waitng for the Qazi’s judgement in a case where
a Brahmin has accused the King of illegally conﬁscating
his property. The result creates a sensation, but reveals a King

glorying in his defeat, because the victory of the Brahmin
will proclaim to the world his impartiality and justice.

It transpires that the Brahmin is a Muslim in Brahmin guise.
The scheme is based on the assumption that a king, out to be
impartial, will in fact be partial towards his enemies.
Scene 2

Tughlaq is faced with two calamities—ﬁrst, his great friend

Ain-ul-Mulk, has turned against him, and is marching on Delhi.
The King has no time to prepare himself. Secondly a priest, '

Shaikh Imarnuddin, is Visiting Delhi to eitpose the King’s
heretical behaviour. The danger is that if the King leaves Delhi

to ﬁght Ain-ul-Mulk, the Shaikh’s incendiary speeches will
almost certainly provoke rebellion in the capital.

प

The court historian Barani, with his belief in history as the

progress of justice and goodness, advises conciliation with Ainul-Mulk, Naj-eeb, the pvazir, a hard-bitten politician, wants

the King to face both difficulties squarely. He points out that
Shaikh Imamuddin bears a striking resemblance to the king.
A meeting is sponsored by the King himself, in which the

Shaikh will “exopse the King to his people”. All are invited.
Scene

3

No one turns up. The meeting is a flop, for no one except
the King and the Shaikh is present. The King points out that
the people are terriﬁed. They suspect a trap and do not come.
By sponsoring the meeting the King has foiled the Shaikh
onal
and ruined his reputation. The King has proved how irrati
people are in their fear. It is this fear that he is ﬁghting, not
the
religion, in wanting to build a rational society. He asks for
Ain-ulShaikh’s help in his effort. Would the Shaikh approach
Mulk on his behalf and sue for peace? The Shaikh agrees
When
and the King bestows the robes of honour upon him.
like the king.
the Shaikh puts them on, he looks even more

