J

characters to assume the shape of a huge abstraction, and

men " (In the Middle of an Argument) by Ni rrnal Varma.
But Varma's transgression went beyond Indian limits, for

this in itself represents a quest for a different technique

his story was closer to a western pereception of life—o r of

and a different creative process. It may not be entirely

d eath .

In this process the story rises above the real and manifest

unprecedented that a writer in the latter part of her

The technique of Sobti’ 5 story is almost consciously that of
career should seek to descend from the realistic surface of

delirious discourse'a dialogue with death in the shadow

life deeper into exploring its basic and philosophical
of an imminent encounter with it. But this delirium is also

issues, but it surely does indicate a widening of the circle
the most vivid reality of this story. It is through this
of her interests and is a pleasant surprise, especially in
delirium that the story gives voice to the secrets of life, a

Hindi where advancing age is often a synonym of
delirium in which life past is left, behind even as death

enfeeblement and decay of creativity.
approaches, like a snake casting off its slough. This
In this sense, Ai Ladaki is quite as modern as it is

technique is embodied in this work as is the soul in the

traditional. Indeed, it is a modern model of the continuity

flesh. Such is the miracle of this narrative technique.

of tradition . The two generations here, forever chattering
All technique is after all technique and here too, there is
and forever bantering, represent a ceaseless dialogue
a highly well wrought technical strategy which may at
between the past and the present. And, in the lightness

times seem contrived. But it is quite as unavoidable and
of being with which the old woman smells and senses
inevitable as any art, which is ever cursed to bear about it
her death as well as a waits it with each breath, as if it
an air of underlying aftiﬁce, for that is what art is.
were all a play (leela) of illusory factors, there is to be
seen not only her indomitable will to live but also a

This story exists as much in the world without as in the

purely Indian sensibility for which death is merely a

world within. In the moments before death approaches,

casting off of old clothes. This element of play in the story

the dialogue between mother and daughter goes like

irnbues its dialogic fabric with an atornosphere of

this.

paradoxical exhilaration or the carnivalesque. The unique

Will you keep on Susan (nurse for mother)?

distinction of the story lies in its rnultilayered signiﬁcation.

No , Amm u .

At the centre of each work by Sobti there is ultimately

And the cook?

and essentially a woman. In Ai Ladki, there runs

He too must go.

alongside the existentialist questions a parallel
commentary on the social and familial situation of woman ,

Could you keep on one or the other?

meaning. From time to time this dialogic exchange

Doesn't seem likely.
It’s a little late for lots of things, girl.
How will you manage all alone?

assumes a dramatic form in which we have a change of

Oh, any old how, Arnrnu.

and such domestic trafﬁc is part of its multiplicity of

scenes without the scene d1anging.-Among all Sobti’s
predecessors, such a blend of the narrative and the
dramatic, as well as such an intense intercourse between
worldly life and the soltude of philosophy, is to be found
only in Jayashankar l’rasad.
Ai Laadki is a transgression in the Hindi story, and

And the last lines of the tale are: “Just as l have cast off
the sheet covering me, let me cast off my body too. Take
my body off me. " This then is that nirmoka, or the
casting off of the mortal coil, which is the pro fou
ndest
exegesis of life in all of Indian philosophy, and Ai
Ladaki
is the ﬁrst Hindi story to express it.

reminds one of that other transgression, “ Beech Bahas
Vl/ay Mohan Singh

