DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The loumey through the production process

them. In this manner, the story is in form of dialogues
and though it resembles a play on the same hand

It has been my desire to theatrically present Krishna

maintains the structure and essence of the story.
Sobti's story "Ai Ladki" since it was published 9— 1 0 yrs.
back. Many a times it was planned to be worked on
upon by various Actresses sometimes Uttara Baukar at
other times Nutan Surya but due to various reasons the
task was not accomplished.

Whatever presentation has come forth is a result of a
complete process of formation, breakage, recon strution
and them completion of a composite structure. Right
from the beginning one thing was very clear that I did
not want to show a sick lady conﬁned to her bed on the

The story on the whole has been written in the form of

dialogues but more than dialogues it seems to be a
solilouque. Whenever I read the story । saw only three

female characters— Ammu, her daughter and the nurse—
susan. At times there seems to be a possibility of
presence of two male characters but in the free ﬂow of

contrary I wanted to potray that inspite of the sickness a
woman can be potrayecl full of life and energy and have
variegeated images visuals and symbols. l n the 10—1 2
theatrical presentations in Delhi and Calcutta we achieved
certain enthusiastic reactions from the audience and due

to this appreciation I became more conﬁdent. If one has
the text they don't hold that much importance. That is
faith in his presentation, grammar and language then

another issue that in future I might be able to present the
story through the medium of only two characters—Ammu

and her daughter. As far as the text is concerned it deals
with story of an old woman who is very sick and she
shares her experiences of life-philosophies, thoughts and
memories with her daughter, interrnitten with advises to
the daughter. In her long journey Ammu is confronted
with many tense moments but she immediately combats

.——4r

, 77 7

there is no doubt that even the audience will accept it

with similar faith. Mrs. Krishna Sobti's remarks proved to
be valuable during the complete process. I believe that
critic’ s own effort to make a story creatively into a

dialogue like structure is very important for theatrical
presentation and I myself strive for it.
De vender Raj A nkur

