LIGHT & SET DESIGNER’S NOTE
An Experience

One day all of a sudden Ankur 11 handed me over "Ai
Ladki" and asked me to read it. I am directing it for the
repertory and you have to design it both set and lights.

Now what kind of a space should be given to the Actors
was a challenge for me. After having seen their
exploration in a disciplined manner I gave them a table.
Then attached tyres to the table. This table could be

Be it design or a play I ﬁnd it very perilous working with

adapted into anything a compartment of a train र a toy

AnkurJi. It is just like beginning an unknown path, where
nothing is pre-planned and in case there is anything

car, a boat, a trolly, a reading table or bark of a tree.
Theatrical and acting capabilities were used to the
optimum in improvising the stands in various manners.

certain Ankur Ji keeps it to himself.

After reading ”Ai Ladki" 1 did not ﬁnd any dramatic

Over all in the creative process the set that was

possibility in it. The thought that came to me regarding
the set was a simple room for Ammu, one for the girl and

highlighted made me very happy. and I felt that
selectivity and symbolism when used on stage can give
ultimate direction to the text. I feel that when an actor
establishes an indepth relationship with various properties
on stage a beautiful product is created. This is possible
only when the actor uses the various properties with
great intelligence and they don't seem to lie

a small space where Ammu's ﬂash back can be shown. I

reached Ankur Ji’s rehearsal with a very realistic sketch.
That rehearsal was a stage to explore ‘Ai Ladki' through
the actors vision. After seeing them on the stage I
preferred to hide my sketch.

purposelessly. This is how such a design is established

After the rehearsal while conversing with the actors Ankur
]i said that the actors including Ammu can utilize the
whole space, Ammu can run anywhere and use the
space to the optimum.

which gets linked to the essence of the main text.
Suresh Bhardwa/

