THE REACTT0NS
Sprung from the depths of life and woven with a strong

ancient culture as an expression of the modern world full

structure, undisputed truth has became an ultimate

of questions. The delirna ofthe life of an Indian woman.

go5peI

The spirit to live after having accepted death which

established the ultimate truth of life-on earth
~llpendranaﬂ1 Ash "
dkavendra Velma

A great story in H indi—though without God's help a
(Nav Bharat Times)

strong desire to live and recreate trust and belief in life
itself. The form of expression is so strong and effective
that the difference between prose and poetry has been

The challenges confronting the modern woman. A
debate on the modern woman living in an lnclian

lost. A creation of great epic dimension an enlightening

scenario. The ever struggling temperament of the story

creation in its completion.

opens new ways for the woman of today.
-I(umud Shanna

~Ashok Valpayee

(Nav B harat Times)

A hide and seek with a desire to live ushering of a
carefree and fearless life with a naturalness and plainess in
the language

It is not an ‘Epic’ on a woman ’ 5 life on the contrary it is a
social outlook. Woven in a language value based
conciousness, realistic experience and deep feelings.

'Glrldhar Rathl

-Puru5hottam Aggarwal
A tirnelss creation. A woman overcoming the torture and
death of her life though living with the ebb and flow of it.

Another aspect of the story- Its important folk context—
The Panjabi culture— The will to live— The will of a Punjabi

'Doadhnath Singh
woman to live a life of fulﬁllment.
The struggle for identiﬁcation of a woman within a

-Dr. Chaman la]

woman .

The most talked about creation of i 991 -i 992— An
~Sudhesh Rachauce
intelligent and meritorius person- story of a mother with a

A story created by self—narrative sentences which become

a virtual collage in its completion. It became a pendulum
between the ethereal and the realistic world. lnspite of
the philosophy of the destruction of life, the craft and
structure of the story has such an appealing flow which
surpasses any kind of debate and leads you to the Zenith
of experience which instead of looking sick old, grim,
tragic and ugly appeals to you. The poetic language plus
the artiﬁcial world as depicted in the story creates a
torturing experience into a celebration.

On the basis of existentionalist philosophy the want for
the 'self’ the struggle of the mother against death and
the egoist daughter who is away from society and family
and accepts lonliness.

The story has such magical effects and poetic dialogues
which become a song—a symphony and represent an

great desire to live at the same time acceptance of
death- as if death is a part of life. lrnbuecl in the ‘ Rasa' of
life. The essence of whatever Arnrnu says out of
experience bridge the gap between the two worlds.
Pryag Shukla
(India Today)

Though seemingly normal the psychology of the mother
stands apart, the daughter also though very general
again seems to be different.
—A udhoot
Vartmaan

An Indian woman '5 life history potrayed through the
medium of an old woman—In which her struggle for life is
linked with the battle between life and death.

