AKIRA KUROSAWA (1910-1998)
Akira Kurosawa was born on March 23, 1910 to a samurai family. He began his career in
cinema at the age of 26. He made his first film “Saushiro Sugata" (Juda Saga) in 1943. His
most famous works were based on works of Shakespeare, Dostoevski and other western
classics, reset in Japan. Kurosawa spoke the language of universal humanism with a legendary
sense of vision and visual magic. He gave the Asian fraternity a sense of pride when his film
“Roshomon” took the West by storm in 1951. Like Satyajit Ray, he was resolutely modern in
approach but influenced deeply by the Japanese culture.
Some of his well known films are “Drunken Angel" (1948), “Roshoman” (1951), “likuru” (1952),
“The Seven Samurai” (1954), "The Throne of Blood” (1957), “The Hidden Fortress” (1958),
“Yajirnbo” (1961), “Sanjuro” (1962), “Red Beard" (1964), “Kagemusha” (1980), “Ran” (1985).

Our Researchers into Public Opinion are content
That he held the proper opinion for the time of year
When there was peace he was for peace;
When there was war he went.
He was married and added five children to the population,
Which our Eugenist says was the right number for a parent of his generation.
And our teachers report that he never interferred with their education.
Was he free ? Was he happy ? the question is absurd;
Had anything been wrong, We should certainly have heard.
—W. H. Auden
(in ‘The Unknown Citizen’)
0 FF-STAG E
Costume

:

Costume from

:

Hashim Haidar, Prarnod Singh, Shafeek Ansari, Naresh
Bhartia, Tarun Chauhan, Rajan Kavatra, Rajat Bhagat
Gangaram

Property

:

Sudhir Drayan, Arnarnath, Shalini Vatsa, Rajeev Mathur,

Arvind Raj, Rajesh Shanna
Set Execution

:

Parvez Khan Bali, Arnit Kohli, Shafeek Ansari, Tarun

Chauhan, Arvind Shandilya, Hernant Pandey, Ali Ashraf.
Publicity
: Nandini Arora, Radhika Rao, Aparna Singh, Arvind Raj,
Arvind Shandilya, Sanjay Kurnar, Arnrish Kurnar, Bilal
Qureshi, Naresh Bhartia, Varun Singh.
Brochure
: Nandini Arora, Radhika Rao.
Lights
: Tribhuvan
Administrative lncharge : Arnit Kohli
Rehearsal lncharge
: Parvez Khan Bali
Stage Management
: Deepak Dobriyal
Group lncharge
: Rajesh Kurnar
Music
: Sangeeta Gaur
Playwright
: Ashok Lal
Director

:

Arvind Gaur

