इर्विन/५3 UT ASMITA
'५3’ :
mita' ﬁends—commit tically innovative and socially relevant theatre.
It a ems" up contemporary issues 0 underline the contours of our time while
t. So far the group has staged Bhishrna
'
pr viding the best of
Sa सांस्थाज्जा' (26 shows), Al ert Camus’ 'Caligula' (21 shows), Raghuvir
u Academy Festival-93), Dr. Girish Karnad's
Ch udhary's 'Sikandra Sani 1
, Rakt-Kalyan' (37 shows), Dr. Dhararnvir Bharti's
'
h
'Andhayug' (9 shows), Brecht's Exception & the Rule (street play) Shakespeare's
'Julius Caeser' (8 shows) & Merchant of Venice (as 'Dilfarosh' at Urdu Academy's
festival '96), Eugene O'Neil's Desire under the Elms (14 shows), Swadesh
Deepak’s Court-martial (49 shows), Narendra Mohan's Oalander (Urdu
Academy's Festival 1997), Dario Fo's Operation Three Star (26 shows) Mahesh
Dattani's Final Solutions (22 shows) and Ashok Lal's Ek Mamooli Aadrni (20
Shows) Swadesh Deepak's Sabse Udaas Kavita (6 shows) Shakespare’s Julius
Caeser restaged in 1998 (2 shows). All under the direction of Arvind Gaur.
In support of people’s struggle against victimisation, “Asmita” gave street-shows
of Safdar Hashmi’s Aurat (36 shows) and Chicago 1886 (75 shows), Saniha
Jahan (21 shows) and Tasveer (17 shows).
As an umbrella organisation to healthy theatre activities, "Asmita" organised
workshops & Productions at different colleges in Delhi such as Lady Shrirarn
College, indraprastha College, Gargi College, Jawahar Lal Nehru University and
School of Planning & Architecture. The group organised the solo performance
of Piyush Mishra which enthralled the audience at Jaipur and Calcutta.
In recognition of its endeavours, the group has been invited to perform
'Court Martial' as the only entry in Hindi at National Drama Festival at Calicut
(Kerala) as well as at Dibrugarh (Chayanika), Assam and Jarnrnu & Kashmir,
'Final Solutions' in Jabalpur and Gwalior, 'Operation Three Star' in Begu Sarai
(lPTA Golden Jubilee Festival), Shakeshpeare's 'Julius Caesar' at Dibrugarh
and Sibsagar (Assam) for the National Shakespeare Festival (Chayanika),
scenes from Julius Caesar, 'Sabse Udaas Kavita' and 'Rakt Kalyan' at the

Prithvi International Theatre Festival. Recently Asrnita was invited to perform
'Ek Mamooli Aadmi' in Calcutta & Kalyani for the Nandikar International Theatre
Festival, as well as at Jabalpur & Lucknow in December 1998.
NEXT SCHEDULE
'Kanpur ki Aurat Bhali Ramkali' - A Hindi adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's
'The Good Person of Szechwan' by Arnitabh Srivastava.
Directed by Arvind Gaur, Lyrics & Music by Piyush Mishra
On 6th & 7th February, 1999 at A81, B.C. Pal Auditorium, Chittaranjan Park

On 8th, 9th & 10th February, 1999 at Shri Ram Center (Main Auditorium)
All shows at 6.30 PM.

Contacts: 2116554, 3510940, 6859409

Email : asrnita92@hotmail.com

