The Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre,
covering the States ofAssam, Bihar, Manipur,
Orissa, Sikkim, Tripura, West Bengal and the

Union Territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, is one of the Zonal Cultural Centres set

up by the Department of Culture, Government
of India.

The Centre's objective is to culturally
integrate the States and Union Territories as
part of the general endeavour to promote national integration. It seeks to encourage the
evolution and consolidation of our culture by
bringing different cultural streams closer and
by making the people understand each other's
distinctive traits in a spirit of appreciation and

acceptance of the underlying thread of unity
amid diversity.

To fulﬁl these aims the Centre has been
carrying out its activities laying stress on cul-

tural interaction between the artistes and the
people of different areas, not only in the Eastern Zone but in other zones as well, by arranging cultural exchange programmes. By this
exchange people in one zone get to know more
about the cultural aspects of other zones.
The Cultural Centre through its various
activities is constantly striving to bring about a
cultural synthesis by promoting excellence,
strengthening our cultural ties and raising the
quality of human life.
The Eastern Zone Cultural Centre is

presenting in Delhi two dance dramas.
One is TASHER DESH, a satire on
social conventions, written by Rabindranath

Tagore.

The

other

is

ABHIJNANA

SHAKUNTALAM, based on Kalidasa's irnmortal epic play.

These have been choreographed by two
well known dance directors; Tagore's play by
Dr. Manjushri Chaki-Sircar and Shakuntalam
by Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra.
Contemporary interpretations ofthe two
great literary and classical works provide in-

teresting glimpses of the link between the
traditional and the modern and the way they
ideally blend together to enrich the literary
use mainstream of India.

Dancers ' Guild
Dancers' guild was formed in 1983 by Dr.
Manjusri Chaki-Sircar, the present Artistic Director. The objective was to evolve a contempo-

rary language of dance based on Indian classical dance techniques and other indigenous
physical disciplines.
The Guild 's work is based on themes which are

of contemporary relevance, addressing issues
like the threat to environment, the horrors of
war, social repression and the problems and
status ofwomen. There has also been abstract
work on reinterpretation of traditional aesthetic iconography.

As a cultural delegation of the Government of
India, the Group had performed in Festival
International Cervantes, Mexico and at India
Festivals in Cuba, Columbia, Peru, Bangladesh
and Nepal and had toured UK and USA. At

home the Group had performed all over India.

Recently the Group was invited to perform at
the International Dance Festivals held in the
Philippines and Indonesia, and at. the Tagore
Festival in China.

