capital. Lonely and depressed at the separation, Shakuntala fails to notice the ill-tem-

pered, Sage Durvasa when he visits her cottage
one day. Insulted, Durvasa curses her that the
man of her dreams, because of whom she is
failing in her duties, will forget her. When

Anusua and Priyamvada, her two close friends,
plead with the Sage he says that her beloved

will recognise her if she can show him a memento. Thereafter, sage Kanva returns.

He is very happy at the union though it
has taken place without his permission.
Gautami, the matron of the ashrama, arranges

Gurukul Kalavikash is an innovative wing of

for Shakuntala to go to her husband's house
and Shakuntala takes leave of Tapavana. On
the way, while performing a ritual in the water,
she loses her wedding ring, her only memento
from the king. The ring is swallowed by a ﬁsh.

Gurukul, a modern school of classical dance

Dushyanta's court is ﬁlled with grandeur.

and music, run by Smt. SutapaTalukdarCDutta
Gupta). This organisation has performed at
home and abraod with credit. .
This dance drama is a Ballet in Odissi, a unique
attempt to capture old traditions.
Padmabhushan Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra
has lent his creative wisdom to Smt. Sutapa in
this production. V. Balsara's unquestionable
competence has found expression in music di-

rection. Sri Tapas Sen ensures the play of light
on stage.

He cannot recollect his Tapavanic experiences

in spite ofShakuntala's best attempts to stimulate his memory. Later, however, the ring

Shakuntala lost is found with a ﬁsherman. On

seeing it the king remembers the past events.
Filled with remorse, he cannot take part either
in the Court's activities or in the festivals.
Matali, Lord Indra's charioteer, inspires him to

leave on a search for Shakuntala. He comes

upon the ashrama of Sage Maricha and ﬁnds a
brave young boy playing with a cub. He recognises the little lad Sarvadamana as his is on.
Shakuntala and Dushyanta once again meet
and are happily reunited, blessed by all.

This dance drama to be staged is based upon
Kalidasa's epic playAbhijnana Shakuntalam. It
commences with a benediction on divine bless-

ings followed by the Nati or Actress's enchanting performance to entertain the audience. The
Sutradhara or Director is so moved by her that
he recalls a similar enchantment that the

Puruvamshia King Dushyanta of Hastinapur
had with a ﬂock of deer.

And then the story of Shakuntalabegins.
Dushyanta enters Tapavana in pursuit of some

ﬂeeing deer. He ﬁnds the inhabitants of this
beautiful ashrama living amidst nature. The
trees, animals, birds and humans are united as

if in a family. He accepts the hospitality of the
disciples of Sage Kanva and meets the beautiﬁll maiden Shakuntala. She is born of union
between Sage Visvamitra and the celestial
nymph Menaka and is adopted by sage Kanva,
the Guru of Tapavana For both ofthem it is love
at ﬁrst sight. Their unrestrained passion leads
to Gandharva or natural marriage between the
two, though Shakuntala's guardian, Sage Kanva
is away. Dushyanta leaves immediately after in
order to attend some pressing problems at his

