A letter from a Houng Hindi Director:
Dear Adya Rangacharya ,

It is a fact that you have written more than thirty full-length plays and nearly a

hundred one-act plays. For the theme, for some of these plays, you have drawn
from the store-house of sanskrit literature; for some others the present-day social problems. You have also delivered innumerable lectures on various occasions on these
subjects. But for what purpose ? Your lectures are studded with sparks of humour.
People enjoy them as they listen and there is unending applause. You yourself are
I
aware that they have not bestowed any deep thoughts over what you spoke.
Calcutta
at
held
Festival
Drama
Hindi
clearly remember your demand at the Allolndia
for a small theatre which would be within easy reach of amateur dramatic troupes.
Your argument is that the essence of a drama can best be brought out only

_ by repeated performances. If my memory is correct, you have been repeating the same
slogan these thirty years. But this does not seem to have evoked any response from any
one so far. This is quite natural. For, only two types ot plays get recognition these
days. One which competes with ﬁlms in popularity and the other nh'ch becomes a
thing ofthe ‘vague past after three or four performances, even to the participants of
the play.
Spurred by some new idea, you may have woken up from sleep at the dead of
night and started putting down your thoughts. Having turned on the light, you may have
paused. Gnawing your teeth in despair at your inability to put your tho ughts—black and
white—you must have brought out your ideas through the medium of plays. You are a
playwright and you can’t help writing. And then, a written play belongs to the society
which gave the playwright the urge to write. The piay belongs to the people who cause
it to be written; likewise, it is the audience that owns a play that comes on the stage. If a
play fails, the society has to take the blame because it resents new ideas and takes refuge
in the ‘old order‘. If the sparkling dialogues in Suno Janamejaya is not relished by the
audience, if they are not amazed at the manifold revealations of truth in the play, if they
do not burst into peals of laughter at the portrayal of man’s idiosyncrasies how can they
be made to understand the purpose of the play which mirrors man’s weaknesses and
IOriginal in Hindi by Shri Dubey.

Published in Dharmyug. 31 October 1966.

(Continued on page 9)

