SREERANQA—The plaqwright
M. S h ank a r

SREERANGA was born into the old tra—
dition of oral sanskrit learning. He f'orsook
this tradition and proceeded to London to
study the language of his ancestors from
foreign men. He was born into orthodxy.
He turned ﬁercely against this orthodoxy,
and did all he could to make it crack and
crumble.

Reminiscent of the old days are the
ironic peroration of Somanna in “Teliso
Ranga” in which he claims that we are marching forward and shall soon catch up with
the past, and the crisp bitter replies of
Dharma to the Yaksha in “Ranga Bharata".
Who is a good man?-An ineffective one; what
is the most astonishing thing in the world?—
That men still trust one another.

His self-conﬁdence in the early days must
have been superb. A legend from his ﬁrst
days as lecturer in sanskrit at Karnatak College, Dharwar, says that a stranger came to

Now, the old ebullience has been tamed
and old uproariousness almost gone. And we
need not weep over this. The aim of the

“Are

playwright in the old days was simple; to

you the Head of this department?” He is
said to have replied : “No, I am the brains
of this department.” I hope such quips will
one day be collected by that little band of
young men he taught so magniﬁcently and
made friends with, and forged into a band of

prick pompous balloons and sledge-hammer
hypocrisy. I suppose SREERANGA at one
time believed in social reform, in which every
young and brilliant writer fully believed.
With them he thought he would change
society, bludgeon it into sense. This rather

his department one day and asked :

naive belief died with maturity of thought.
excellent actors.

There were other qualities which marked
SREERANGA as remarkable in addition to
his self-assurance. There was a quick sardonic sense of the ludicrous, and an ebullience
which bristled, sparkled, almost set ﬁre to

everything it touched. This uproarious
quality was fully evident in his earlier
plays and in his novel “Vishwamitrana
Srishti".

SREERANGA could not attack as preclpitately as before, as his sense of the tragedy
of human error became deeper, and as his
understanding of the complexity of human
motives became clearer. Being an iconoclast
is not much fun, when you see men setting up

new idols no sooner the older ones are destroyed. No one can ref'orm society for long,
certainly not by writing plays or novels or
(Continued on page 8)

