(Continued from page 3)
poetry. The writer can only seek to tear the
y.
veil of appearances and make‘imen see realit
e
Whether even this helps to reform anyon is
anybody’s guess.

The search for the real behind apparent
s of
has been in a way the theme of the play
all
of
e
them
the
is
SREERANGA. (True, this
writings and philosophy, but: drama appears
s
to concertise it much better). He has alway
gone behind ‘established truths’, and showed
n
their hollowness : his trick has quite ofte
, and
been to turn such a truth upside down
a,’
harm
padd
‘Sam
show that to be more true.
Vyasa
where SREERANGA asks the great
himself a question or two, is the most comp
SREERANGA is
lete example of this.
invigorating because he never accepts; he always infringes.

The three plays collected in ‘Ranga
Bharata’ seek to force us to see reality. The
attempt is not without anguish.
“Kroshato me nashrunvanti; Kroshato
me” —— says Dhritarashtra.
Kroshato
Keep shouting here, no one listens.
The past is no more glorious than the
present. Let the past bury its dead after I

have exhumed the corpses and exhibited them
to you for your delectation. It is not ideals
that matter, nor can complex knowledge and
superstition help us. The road to glory and

power leads only to the grave. This is pretty
near despair. Look at the fact in “'l‘eliso
Ranga’. Somanna, the illiterate pretender so
anxious to lead, is the only character for
whom the playwright has sympathy. But I
believe SREERANGA has not totally des-

paired yet. The dramatist can still laugh at
the end of “Daari Yaavudayya” while the
critic screams in terror at the approaching
death. Man in the mass may not change, but
men certainly can. The individual’s road to
tolerable living is still open.
The three plays in ‘Ranga Bharata’ are
the most serious plays of the author so far.
has
From tragi-comedy, SREERANGA
moved to tragedy here. The method is impressionistic, and is not uniformly successful
as in the second play. There are faults,
undoubtedly. The characters introduced to
do duty for the Greek chorus become verbose now and then, and men are dramatic
sleights-of-hand like Dharteppa suddenly
walking across the stage after an ‘insert’ in
“Ranga Bharata”, and explaining it by saying, “I remembered all sorts of things, and
thought I was thousands of years old : I
wanted to see if I could walk on my legs”.
Still, these plays are laden with a keen anguish that does touch us to the quick. They do
provoke us, and make us reconsider.

SREERANGA has done much to make
the Kannada stage mature and thoughtful.
He is stubborn enough, I know, not to give
up writing even when most people fail to see
what he is getting at.

I believe he has still to produce his masterpiece. His ability to see through cant and
cliche, his sense of the irony of life, his stoic
acceptance of tragedy, and his ability to make
the truth appear in all its terrible nakedness,
as when Draupadi says to Vidura who is
shocked at "Duryodhana’s threat to have her
stripped in the open court. “When you were

