A Homage Volume to the Bard of Avon

“Shakespearige Namaskara”
Edited by .'

S. Balu Rao

Kannada-Bharati on the occasion of the celebration of the Quater-centenary
of Shakespeare’s birth, as its major offering of homage to the Bard, sponsored a
Homage Volume in Kannada, entitled Shakespearige Namaskara, which has now been
released. The Volume was planned in such a manner as to serve as a useful handbook
to such of those Kannadigas to whom Shakespeare in the original has remained a
closed book.
'
.
The Volume is in four sections, the ﬁrst of which carries a detailed
introduction to the Poet’s lif'e, works and achievement; the second consists of some
20 critical articles on various aspects of the Poet’s works; the third carries transla-

tions of poems, sonnets, songs and scenes and passages from Shakespeare’s plays
hitherto unattempted in modern Kannada; the last section deals with each play of
Shakespeare individually, records its bibliographical details, traces its sources, presents an act-wise digest of it with a short critical appreciation and a bibliography of
its translation and adaptations in Kannada.

Contributors include : Sarvasri D. V. Gundappa, Masti Venkatesa Iyenger,
D. R. Bendre, V. Sitaramaiah, S. V. Ranganna, P T. Narasimhachar, V. K. Gokalg
Adya Rangacharya, R. S. Mugali, D. S. Karki, (Late) T. N. Sreekantaiya, K. V.
Raghavachar, A. N. Moorthy Rao, N. Kasturi, M. V. Seetha Ramiah, K. S. Narasimaha vaamy, Gopalakrishna Adiga, Ramachandra Sharma, Channavira Kanavi,
Siddayya Puranik, G. S. Sivarudrappa, S. Prabhu Shankara, B. H. Sreedhara, G. V.
Chittal, L. S, Seshagiri Rao, S. Ananta Narayana, K. Narasimha Murthy, M. Rama
Rao, G. Varadaraja Rao, D. Javare Gowda, ’I‘. S. Shama Rao, Gourish Kaikini,
H. Y. Sharada Prasad, C.H. Prahlad Rao, H.B. Kulkarni, M.L.S. Sastry, H.S. Patil,
Narayana Sangama, K. V. Subbanna, Vasant Kawali, B. A. Sanadi, S.R. Nadig,
Chandrasekhara Patil, Giraddi Govindaraja, etc. "

The Volume is profusely illustrated by Shri R. S. Naidu, the distinguished .artist
of Mysore.

1966

450 Pages

Size : Royal Octavo

Rs.

25.00 (inclusive of postage )

Printed in two colours and bound in Rexine

For copies contact:

३

K AN NADA-BHARATI
4/10, W. E. A.,' Karol Bagh
New DelbLS.

