delay Hernanta from opening the letterbox and leaves to speak with Kedar. In order to distract Hernanta from the
letterbox, Nora begins to practise dancing and asks him to instruct her. In her emotionally overwrought state, she

dances wildly and violently. Nora manages to distract Hernanta from opening the letterbox until the dance party
is over. Lina returns and says that she could not meet Kedar, and that she has left him a note.

Act Three
The night when the Karkis go to the dance party, Kedar meets Lina in their living room. Their conversation reveals
that they know each other — they had been in love and Lina had deserted Kedar to marry a rich man so that she
could support her mother and brothers. Now that she is free from familial responsibilities, Lina says that she
wishes to live with Kedar. Kedar, overjoyed, says that he intends to take his letter back before Hernanta can read it.
Lina suggests to him not to do so, because she believes it will be better for both Nora and Hernanta if the truth is

unveiled.
Kedar leaves, and Nora and Hernanta come back from the party. Hernanta wishes Lina goodnight, and tells
Nora how attractive and desirable she looked as she danced. Just then Dr. Rana, who was also at the party, enters
the house, and interrupts Hernanta's demonstration of affection towards Nora. After Dr. Rana leaves Hernanta
opens the letterbox and ﬁnds two of Dr. Rana’s cards, marked with a black cross. Nora clarifies that what this
means is that Dr. Rana will die soon. She then insists that Hernanta read Kedar’s letter. Outraged after reading the
letter, he calls Nora a hypocrite and a liar, and charges her with ruining his happiness. He declares she will no
longer be allowed to look after their children
Soon after this Kedar sends another letter, on opening which Hernanta discovers Nora’s tamasuk (debt bond)
enclosed. He is overjoyed and tries to make reparation for his behaviour. But Nora has realized her position. She
accuses Hernanta of having treated her like ’a doll’, to be played with and admired. She decides to leave him and
free herself from her oppressive situation. And she

Cast & Credits
Onstage
Nora
Hernanta
Lina
Kedar
Dr. Rana

Nisha Shanna Pokharel
Shekhar Chapagain
Aruna Karki
Bashanta Bhatta
Rajkumar Pudashaini

Offstage
Costumes

Nisha Sharma Pokharel

Costumes assistant

Sarita Girl, Aruna Karki

Management
Management assistance
Music Operator
S et Design
Set Design assistance
Light Design
Stage Manager

Bashanta Bhatta
Manirarn Pokhrel, Dipesh Bhandari, Anil Pokharel, Debi Khatri

Kamalrnani Nepal
Raj an K hat iwa da
Ra m hari D ha kal
S un il

B hola raj S ap kota

P। aywr ig ht
Translation, Design

Henrik Ibsen

8r Direction

S un i l Po kha reI

Acknowledgements

Dr. Banira Giri, Bindu Subedl, Aavaas, Sugarn Pokharel, Bentley the Leather,
Communication Corner

