A festival where women theatre artists showcase their work should, without hesitation, become a regular
calendar event. The international women’s movement goes back more than a hundred years in the West, but
it is only recently that women from countries of Southeast Asia and the Arab world have begun to tell their
stories from perspectives that are as startling and disturbing, as they are ’real’.
ln a country that has idolized and deiﬁed the woman, as well as castigated her, we are recipients of a complex and
ambivalent legacy vis-a—vis the second sex. The image of women has by and large, in all the arts, been generated
and governed by men, by patriarchal norms — which is not to deny that those very norms, mainly concerning
morality, have often been zealously upheld and supported by women themselves, making the task of dismantling
traditional ways of viewing women an extremely stressful undertaking for those early wornen’s liberationists.
Gender discourse in India has run parallel to the instance of an increasing number of women entering public
life and laying claim to areas often considered the bastion of men. Even in soft areas, earlier considered
non-contentious, such as acting, writing or painting, we begin to trace, from the nineteenth century onwards
especially, a new iconography of women being calibrated by women themselves. With increasing urgency

women artists seek to liberate themselves from agendas of any kind, returning to the till now marginalized
self, as the area of exploration.

Much of women’s work is personal, intimate and locates itself on the contested site of the female body. The body/
visage/image is opened up for scrutiny, but not subjectively . . . rather it is treated as an object to be dismantled.

Wresting her body from the purview of the‘male gaze’, the woman reclaims her body and thus her identity. She
substitutes the gaze of power and desire with her own. She observes herself, looks at herself, examines herself. She

splits herself into two — the subject and the object — she becomes both subject and object.

In laying claim to herself, the woman begins constructing a new world, a new universe, a new image and
the woman
identity of herself, as she sees it. She questions her own desire, her own sexuality. And forall this

tion — one w'hich Shejfeels to be'morre truthful, more i
" l, ual experience - not of intellectual debate, not of issues.

Chairperson
National School of Drama (NSD)

