Excerpt from

’Refusing Erasure of Differences in Representations of
Contemporary Theatre in Bangladesh’
Syed Jamil Ahmed
Professor, Department ofTheatre and Music, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh

Un-erased

new king for justice. In a moving scene, the mother is reunited with her son. Enraged at

Let us begin with the theatre of the Marmas (a tiny Buddhist Sino—Tibetan ethnic

Ui—ria’s atrocity, Mau Chhai Pau convenes the court ofjustice which ﬁnds Ui—ria guilty

group with a population of l57,000), who live in the southeastern hills of Chittagong.

and has him hanged, Finally, Marisarikha is reborn and the family is happily reunited.

AlthoughTheravada Buddhist by faith, their religious practice exhibits strong inﬂuence

The subject-agents of Alan—napalm, the ﬁve displaced candidates who represent

ofanirnisrn The Marmas trace their descent to the Talaings of Pegu (capital of a united

ﬁve distinct categories of characters facing moral dilemmas, are all elite and

Burman kingdom from 1539 to 1599) and recount their recent history as one inscribed

patriarchal constructs. Marisa r'ikha is the male subject who upholds his commitment

by a series of violent displacements from Pegu to their present habitat. . . .

to muniﬁcence even during displacement when he is forced by his friend to forsake his

. . . The most important genre of theatre popular among the Marmas is known

freedom. However, his righteousness is ﬂawed for he fails to honour his promise that

as Jyd, which is quite similar to the [at Pwe seen mostly in central and southern

he will never reveal his identity. mm is another male subject who is rescued from

Myanmar. It is performed in Buddhist temple—precincts during religious celebrations

his displacement by Marisarikha but fails to match his friends benevolence when his

and harvest ceremonies. The function of a popular Jyri performance, titled Alan—no!)th

benefactor is displaced. He even falls prey to desire forthe displaced Mesankha. Thailya

(literally, ’Five Candidates’), may be seen as an attempt to resolve a question of major

does not fall like Ui—ria and helps Mesankha to escape from captivity, but, when faced

importance that haunts the collective consciousness of the Marma community: living

by possible displacement, forsakes his companion Marisar'ikha to save his own life. The

with bitter memories of past displacements and fearful of similar events in the future,

king, who was rescued from his displacement by the Buddha, can mete out justice by

who can claim to be a true follower of Dharrna as proclaimed by the Buddha.7 rl/ari—

reinstating the honour of his displaced mother but cannot bring back his father, doubly

ncibo'ha probes into this question by presenting the life of Marisar’ikha, the charitable

displaced by life and death. Mesankha fulﬁls the role that patriarchy demands of her as

prince of Anmachhtempa, who helps his childhood friend Ui-ria, an afﬂuent farmer

a selﬂess mother and a virtuous wife, but on her own she can only fall prey to the greed

of Ujuni, after the latter loses all his possessions in a forest ﬁre, Years later, when

of other males and needs male subjects to end displacement: Thailya to escape from

Marisariklia is married and has a three—year—old son named Mau Chhai Pau, he sets sail

violent conditions, Mau Chhai Pau to put an end to violence, and (most importantly)

for trade with his companion Thailya. Unfortunately, his ship capsizes but he manages

the Buddha to bring back her husband to life. With these subject—agents as examples,

to survive and reaches Ujuni. When he meets Ui—ria and seeks help, the latter forces

rl/ari—ncibciha upholds the necessity of a righteous king to ensure the continuance of

Marisar'ikha to tend his herd of goats in exchange for food and binds him in a promise

Buddhist ideals and urges the laity to have faith in Dharrna in times of stress.

never to reveal his identity. In the meanwhile, Thailya, who survived the shipwreck as

However, if the displaced condition of Marisarikha is seen as a paradigm of the

well, returns home and intimates Marisar'ikha’s wife Mesankha about the loss of the

Marma community — displaced from Pegu and then Arakan and then from the valleys

ship. She sets out in search in her husband with her child, but is trapped by Ui—ria who

of the Chittagong Hills after the implementation of the Karnaphuli Hydroelectric

forcibly throws the child in a river and makes her live with him. The child is saved by

Project — then rl/ari-ntibciha can be recognized as an aesthetic document of displaced

the grace of the Buddha and grows up to be the king of Anmachhtempa, After many

conditioning This document identiﬁes mm as the treacherous host community

years, one day Marisar’ikha decides to escapes when he hears that a new king has been

(earlier in Arakan and now in Bangladesh) who exploit the displaced by turning the

enthroned He recognizes the new king as his son Mau (hhai Pau who was rescued

men into slaves and the women into objects of sexual desire. The displaced, under pain

from the river by divine grace. Marisankha cannot restrain himself from divulging his

of death, is never to reveal his/her identity. S/he must live incognito till a Buddhist king

name to his son. Because he breaks his promise, he dies. Meanwhile, Mesar’ikha escapes

who lives by the Dharrna rnetes out justice by annulling the displaced condition. The

from Ui—ria with Thailya’s help and returns home only to ﬁnd that her husband is dead.

yearning to return ’horne’ at the end of displacement is at the very core ofrl/ari—nriba‘ha.

She dreams of Marisankha, who promises to be reborn if she can perform meritorious

This yearning, which nurtures a resilient refusal to be assimilated by the dominant

acts, Mesankha fulﬁls her husband’s wishes by begging alrns and then approaches the

community, is muted but never erased. The Marmas remember — refuse to erase from

