their communal memory — centuries of dispossession and displacement. They nurture

preaching a simple yet inspiring faith that the lilcis of Krsna are collectively an expedient

the unspoken hope of returning’home’. Here lies their silent resistance.

to achieving devotion (bhakti), and one can access the Divine in devotional ecstasy
generated out of recollection and reﬂection of the lilcis. Therefore, any performance of

From a tale of the royalty, we may now move to a tale of a divine couple
performed by the Manipuris, another tiny ethnic community with a population of

the li/cis that succeeds in infusing the spectators with devotional sentiment culminating

over 325,000 of predominantly Mongoloid descent. They were formerly residents of

in beatiﬁc ecstasy is equivalent to ritualized worship of the deity. Appropriating the

Manipur — once a sovereign kingdom that was annexed by the British colonizers in AD

passionate and sensuous love-lore of Radha and Krsna, which was (and still is) very

1891 and later internally colonized by the Union of India in 1949. The Manipuri diaspora

popular in Bengal, Gaudiya Vaisnavism (re)presented the love-lore as the paradigm of

began to migrate to the territory today known as Bangladesh (as well as Assam
and Tripura) in 1755, during a disastrous invasion of Manipur by the Burmese king

the relationship between the human (as Radha) and the Divine (as Krsrja), and devised
quite a few performances as a vehicle for generating ecstasy, equivalent to ritualized

Alaungpaya.The migration continued through subsequent political strife within the

worship of Krsrja.

ruling dynasty and another Burmese invasion in 1769, and reached its peak during the

Although various brands ofVaisrjavism reached Manipur before the mid—

and occupation of Manipur in 1819 and ended when the invaders were driven out with

eighteenth century, it was during the reign of King Ningthou Ching—Thang Khornba
(Maharaja Bhagyachandra, reigned 1763—1798), that a preacher from Bengal named

the help ofBritish forces. The last major exodus occurred in 1891 after the war with

Premananda Thakur made the deepest impact on the lives of the Manipuris by initiating

the British colonizers, which ended in victory for the latter. Most of the Manipuris in

the king, and then, through him, the entire Bishnupriya and the Meitie population, into

Bangladesh are farmers and weavers by profession, and are settled in the northeastern

Gaudiya Vaisnavism. It was a deft political move because the country had been torn by

region of Sylhet. The community is composed of three sub—groups: the Meitheis (of

conﬂict between the Bishnupriyas arid the Meities for the past half—century. . . . After

Mongoloid ancestry), the Bishnupriyas (of Aryan ancestry) and the Pangals (born of

ﬁfty years of turbulence that saw patricide, struggle between rival princes and Burmese

Meitie mothers and Muslim fathers). The former two sub—groups profess their religious

invasions, King Ningthou Ching-Thang Khornba succeeded where his ancestors had

faith in Gaudiya Vaisrjavisrn and the latter, in lslarn. 0f the three sub—groups, the

failed. During his exile in Assam after the Burmese invasion and occupation of Manipur

Bishnupriyas arethe most numerous in Bangladesh (with an estimated population of

in 1769, he dreamt of Krsna in his natabar bes — wearing a beautiful dress and with

231,000), followed by the Meities (92,000).

a top-knot of peacock feathers on his head and a flute in his hand — and dancing

’seven years’ devastation’ (1 81 9—25), which began with yet another Burmese invasion

The most important performance of the Manipuris (more precisely, the

the most exquisite of all dances. Krsrja told the king to make an image of him from

Bishnupriyas and the Meities) is the lids erya, held during the Vaisrjav-Hindu religious

the jackfruit grown in nearby hills and worship it. The dream haunted the king so

festival of Maharas in exquisitely decorated pavilions in temple precincts. The most

thoroughly that in 1776, after the Burmese were driven out, he established a temple in

famous R65 thya of the Maharas festival in Bangladesh is performed in Madhabpur,

honour of Radha and Krsrja in his capital and became a wholehearted devotee of the

where it has been presented annually since 1842. All the Bishnupriyas and the Meities

divine couple. After three years, the king materialized his dream of Krsrja’s dance into a

participate in these performances as a matter of religious duty — as devotee-spectators,

live performance of [his Nrrya with the choicest performers of his land. It is said that in

as voluntary performers or by participating in organizational affairs. The performance

the maiden performance of R65 Nrrya, held on the 11th day of Hiyanggei (November)

is based on the /ila‘ (’play’) of ram, i.e. the ’circular dance’ of divine love between the

in 1779, he played the rnj'danga (a double-ended drum) and had his daughter perform

supreme divinity Krsrja (an incarnation ofVisnu) and his divine cowherd—consorts (the

the role of Radha.

gap/’5). Although Krsrja dances in the centre with the supremely loving goddess Radha,

(all it a dream if you will, and believe it or not — it matters little. For our purpose

every gopr’experiences his exclusive attention. Except for Radha and stna, played by a

what matters is that Ra's Nrtya won over both the Meities and the Bishnupriyas, both

pre-puberty girl and a boy, respectively, the remaining performers are all adult females

accepted Gaudiya Vaisnavism as their religion, and there was an unprecedented fusion

and they perform as gap/'5. They execute exquisitely graceful movements, intricate

of the two people. . . . For our purpose what further matters is, once we make visible

steps and delicate hand gestures to the lyrics sung by narrators, and instrumental

— un—erase the erased history ~ it becomes immediately apparent that the notion of

music rendered by a group of musicians playing double-ended drums and cymbals.

perforrnance-as-resistance of the subaltern classes that Gaudiya Vaisnavism devised in

. . . One may read the performance as a validation of an important frame of reference

the sixteenth century, was appropriated by the elites of Manipur in the last quarter of

ofthe Bishnupriyas and the Meities: that life is in effect a 010', in which each devotee

the eighteenth century. Consequently, the representation of life as a lilo that Ros Nrrya

(as Radha) enjoys the exclusive attention of Krsna, the Absolute, because the relation

projects is actually resistance appropriated for hegemony.

between the former (individual devotee) and the latter (the Absolute) is inconceivany
dual yet non-dual (dvaitya'dvaita).
However, the representation of life as a ma that Ra's Nrtya projects with

The hegemony extends beyond the statecraft of Manipuri kingdom into the
domain of patriarchy. By the manner that Ros Nrrya is conscious of, preoccupied with
and overprotective of the female body — in veiling the face, in prohibiting any exchange

extraordinary esthetic eloquence is inscribed with a muted history of resistance and

of glance with the spectators, in portraying Radha and Krsrja with children — the

appropriation, which, if taken into account, locates the performance in an indeterminate

performance makes an implicit puritanical statement. (You may laugh at my sirnile but

zone of unresolved ’meanings’. Let me explain how. in 1509, when the outstanding

for me, the costume of the dancers is an artistic recreation of the burkhri.) By absences

Bengali saint Chaitanya (1486—1533) initiated Gaudiya Vaisnavism, his objective was

and denials, by attempted erasures, the female body is undeniably foregrounded. It is as

a two—pronged resistance against: (i) Brahrnanisrn that made divinity inaccessible for

though silences speak, the erased stand prominently ’under erasure’ and the love-lore of

the subaltern classes and reinforced dominance of the elite classes; and (ii) lslarn that

Radha and Krsrja, represented as the paradigm of the relationship between the human

threatened to absorb the entire indigenous population in its fold with its egalitarian

and the Divine cannot be completely de-linked from the material reality. . . . ln Ros

promises. The movement swept Bengal with unprecedented popular support by

Nrtya, sexuality operates by sublimation.

