This concern was made vocal by a Manipuri teacher during my ﬁeld visit to
Kamalganj, when he asked me how I resolve divine love in terms of daily life. If
Krsna can engage with dalliance with numerous gap/s, how does one judge illicit
relationships and extra—marital amorous frolicking? I gave the scholarly answer, which

and excreted it on the back of the Tortoise. Soon, the excreted earth accumulated into
a landrnass. In order to coalesce the earth, Jiu planted grass and trees. The duck laid
an egg and the drake went in search of food. After nine months and ﬁve days, the egg
began to move, and after ﬁve more days, a man and a woman emerged from the egg.

I think you too are ready to offer: Krsrja and Radha are divine lovers who operate at a
religious and metaphysical plane, and have nothing to do with earthly amoral lovers

They were Pilchu Hadam (man) and Pilchu Budi (woman) — the ﬁrst pair of humans on
this earth.

But you and I do not live in a far-ﬂung Manipuri village. As ’ethnic minorities’, they
stand under constant gaze and threat from their Muslim neighbours. And as we know

creation disavows omnipotence of the Creator, and insists that creation is a social act

of Islamic zealots, when enthused with the z/had/ spirit of appropriating a piece of land

where even the most insigniﬁcant needs to contribute actively. There are no heroics in

or a woman (which is same to them — as property), nothing on earth can bar their

the tale, no god who steals ﬁre; instead, an unobtrusive insistence that the violence

The Santal frame of reference projected through the performance of their myth of

way. As I was told later, among the ’volunteers’ who join in to help the celebration of

of sinister beings (such as Sansadom) can be resisted by insigniﬁcant creatures (such

Maharas, there are quite a few young men who stand guard to resist those of their

as the Earthworm) simply by contributing inconspicuoust to the process of creation

neighbours who mix up the earthly and divine brands of love.

— and in spite of violence. The Santal performance reiterates Rosalind O’Hanlon's

The performance of the R05 Nrtya today is inscribed both with a history of

rejection of the notion that’resistance itself should necessarin take the virile form of a

population movement from Manipur and concomitant diasporic attachment. Embedded

deliberate and violent onslaught’.‘ . . . The Santal myth of creation articulates ’resistance

in it is a communal remembering of a ’home’that they yearn for but will never go

of a different kind: dispersed in the ﬁelds we do not conventionally associate with the

back to. Performing R05 Nrtya at Karnalganj since 1842 is a public statement declaring

political; residing , . . sometimes in what looks like cultural difference.’2 By erasing it

the Manipuri identity that refuses to be absorbed by the surrounding human milieu.

from our narrative of the contemporary theatre, we erase a difference — of the Santal

Considering the fact that the performance explicitly disavows the Islamic worldview in

representation of resistance made by the Santals.

a country that has known quite a few attacks by Islamic zealots, it is an act of resistance
to make the performance happen each year. And here I add that the resistance may be

of the Meitheis and the Bishnupriyas, perhaps not ofthe Pangals. . . .
. . . From a web of constructed meanings around a divine pair that the Manipuri
community created, I will now lead you to a ’politically correct’ representation of the
Santals that a performance created by the dominant community gets trapped into,
and contrast it with another performance that the Santa ls have created themselves.
Descendents of the Austric—speaking Proto—Australoid race and anirnists by faith, the
Santals are one of the oldest and largest ethnic communities in South Asia, but a
people fragmented by political boundaries that demarcate the nation-states of India,
Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Mauritius. . . . Only a small segment of 202,) 62 reside
in Bangladesh and 600,000 in the rest of the three countries mentioned above. . . . At
present, the Santals in Bangladesh live mostly in rural areas of Rajshahi and Dinajpur
regions. They were mostly farmers by profession, but social and economic exploitation

by the dominant Bengali community has resulted in extensive landlessness among
them. Consequently, the majority of the Sa ntals today earn their livelihood as wagelabourers. Land encroachment, rape, murder and police brutality have become almost
common incidents in the Santal areas. . . .
. . . ﬁlter is an important performance of the community that is held around

a small pavilion during Santal festivals and rituals. The performance is based on the
Santal myth of origin summed up as follows. In the beginning the entire earth was

covered with water and in it lived the Crab, the Earthworm, the Tortoise, the Crocodile,
the Sheat Fish and the Lobster. Desirous of creating humans, Jiu the Creator shaped
a pair of human forms with earth but before he could give life, the sinister horse
Sansadom destroyed them. Jiu was grief—stricken and so he created a drake and a

duck instead. The pair ﬂoated over water and ﬁnally grew tired. So they requested Jiu
to create a resting—place. He asked the Crocodile to fetch earth from under the water.
The latter attempted, but before it could carry it above, all the earth dissolved in the

water. Then Jiu asked the Crab and the Sheat ﬁsh, but they too failed. Finally he sent the
Earthworm. The latter agreed but requested Jiu to ask the Tortoise to stay aﬂoat above
the water. The Tortoise complied and then the Earthworm anchored its end on the back

Rosalind O’Hanlon, histories of Resistance शा (oiorual South Asia IT‘ Mapping Luau/tern ironies and the Pi/ElfU/Dllrul. "mm and introduced by
‘liriayal Chariniedr, Verso, tendon 2000, p 119

of the Tortoise and descended to the bottom. There it ate the earth through its mouth

l bid

