Excerpt from

’lndian Theatre Today’
Ki rti Jain
Professor, National School of Drama, New Delhi, India

ridden formula ﬁlms, or fashion shows and the like. It seems that the audience no

Indian theatre would have a lot of commonalities with Asian theatre, or, let us
say, with theatre all over Asia. In the contemporary theatres of these countries, the
differences would be in the details and the speciﬁc history and processes that have
governed a country. The entire region has faced colonization or occupations which have
impacted on the histories of its arts. The differences could also be in the varying levels
of technological sophistication in various countries. But in the essentials they would be
very similar. The commonalities would have to do with the Asian worldview as distinct
from the Western worldview. The entire Asian region has the advantage of living

longer has the time or patience to sit through a theatre performance that is in a quieter,

traditional forms that provide continuity with the past. It is the constant interaction

introspective mode. Nor do actors ﬁnd it viable to spend two months in rehearsal for a
play when they get paid handsomely by the day for television serials.
Theatre is a medium of debate, of ideas, of thought. in today’s scenario — where

with our traditional forms that allows for a fresh look at our work today, when we are
cut off from our roots due to rapid urbanization and industrialization. As an example I
would like to point out that in India’s dramatic literature and theatre there are numerous

politically and socially normal norms are no longer operative, where all established

examples of man’s interaction with nature at an equal level. This dialogue with nature

values and moral codes are in question, where desire for money and more money

governs the pace of life — what could be the relevance of any debate, of sharing ﬁner

includes the trees, ﬂowers, animals, and birds where each is party to the other’s sorrows
and pleasures. in today’s world when man is unthinkineg exploiting and trying to

emotions and experiences? And at a time of unabashed political rnanoeuvreing all

control nature for his own gains, not concerned with the environmental impact in the

round, does a quiet protest through theatre have any role to play? . . .

community at large? While most of us in theatre do face this anxiety every now and

long run, this looking back would be of great signiﬁcance.
All Asian traditions have also been very inclusive of all modes of creative
expression — like music, dance, the ﬁne arts, literature, mime, acrobatics, etc, —
probably what is termed Total Theatre by western critics. To this is linked the fact that

then, there is no denying the fact that over the centuries, theatre has faced many

the Asian tradition has been largely perforrnative, with a focus on the performer

threats to its existence but has repeatedly succeeded in recovering from these with
readjustrnents and emerging stronger. As a live form of art where performers and

rather than on the written word. This probably explains why these traditions continue
to replay the same stories over the centuries and hold the same attraction for the

audiences engage in a dialogue, as a shared experience, there is nothing that can

audience. For the attraction is in the ’how’of the performance rather than in the 'what'

replace it. It seems that the need for it will remain — in however modiﬁed a form.

and ’why’. Since many of these performances are largely improvisational in nature,

The Indian theatre tradition dates back more than two mil lennia with a

each artist is able to bring his/her own special skills, understanding, sensibility and

Today’s market economy has thrown up a different kind of theatre — a theatre that
has to be conforrnist, gimmicky and performed in a language able to attract the elite.

Therefore English theatre, which had been relegated to the background in the T9505
by the language theatres, has made a resurgence in the metros with supper theatre,
bedroom farces and extravaganzas backed by big sponsors. Unfortunately serious

English theatre, like the serious language theatre, does not have much support either.
So only populism prevails - whether it be the soaps on TV, or the sex and violence—

. . . Do we then conclude that theatre as an expression ofthe hopes, aspirations
and anxieties of the people, is on the verge of extinction? Is it of no value to the

distinguished and unique treatise on theatre practice like the Natyas/rastra as testimony

imagination to the performance. Most of the Asian forms are presentational in nature

to the sophistication of the tradition even at that time. With the collapse of royal

and do not attempt to imitate reality but to present reality. This allows for a unique

patronage, Sanskrit theatre died out, only to reappear in myriad vibrant traditional

theatricality and a direct relationship to the audience. Since the actors/performers are
closely linked to the society where their plays are performed, they are able to bring in
topical resonances either through comments or through performance, creating a special
bond with the audience.

forms with rich local coloring, community participation and a live relationship with its
audience. Then emerged the urban theatre powered by newly acquired knowledge and

exposure to the Western or British theatre traditions, and spread all over the country in
the form of company theatre. With the coming of the talkies, once again Indian theatre
faced the threat of extinction and company theatre received a serious setback, but

theatre reasserted itself and we saw a flourishing group theatre movement in the T9605
and 703 which was more meaningful, artistic and exploratory. The current onslaught is

that of globalization, the market economy and the media boom, which have certainly
dampened spirits temporarily, but one can already see the theatre community trying

to cope with these challenges creatively. In an otherwise seemingly bleak scenario,
increased audiences for well publicized theatre is also a reason for cheer.
Today, the challenges posed by the media are being met by the creation of

alternative theatrical languages. The threat created by globalization and predominance
of the market is being quietly fought by more intimate and community-based theatre,
and the problem of non—availability ofgood dramatic texts is being countered by the

in my view, traditionally, theatre language has not just been a method to

communicate a concern but has had an independent space and meaning — which
means that theatre aesthetics has been as important a part of the experience as the
story. This would be as true of the Beijing Opera of China as of Noh Theatre in Japan
and Kutiyattarn in Kerala. The Natya S/iastra underlines rasa as the primary experience
that a performance is meant to generate. While this is a very complex concept, very
simply put, it refers to the experience of the spectator due to the beauty of p0rtraya| of
a particular emotion or emotions by the performer. So, here is a slight shift in emphasis
from the emotion itself to its portrayal. Therefore the responsibility of the performer
is paramount, in that he has to master his art so that he is able to portray even an
emotion of disgust such that it creates arranda (joy) in the spectator, Tire beauty alluded
to here clearly does not refer to decoration but to truth and depth, which reach out as a

creation of new and unconventional texts through alternate sources. I am sure
the other

rich aesthetic experience to the spectator. All the Asian forms are thus a celebration of

Asian countries are meeting the present-day challenges in a similar manner.

the actor/performer and place him centrestage.

