Contemporary theatre in this entire region began as western-inﬂuenced, word—

A major challenge is that of form — where theatre has to develop a language

oriented theatre meant for the industrial middle class, and it has undertaken different

distinctly different from that of cinema or TV, it has to draw on sources that point to

journeys till the present day so that there is a simultaneous existence of several schools

its unique strength. And there is already a vast range of experiments in many regions
towards the creation of a culture—speciﬁc language for theatrical expression, as

of theatre including the realistic, absurd and expressionistic. The earlier phase witnessed

the creation of a large body of very exciting dramatic texts that dealt with themes like
the meaning of life, the search for perfection, the rneaninglessness of war, the conﬂict
between the material and the spiritual, between the individual and society, etc. While
the structures were largely inﬂuenced byWestern drarnaturgy, they were completely
internalized and communicated the concerns of India of that time with absolute truth
and immediacy What was important was the fact that this happened at a pan—Indian
level creating an unprecedented excitement and conﬁdence. The theatre practice
matched this with ﬁtting creativity and energy.
In the T 9705 and 805 the indigenous tradition asserted itself and integrated with
the modern Western sensibility to create spectacular theatre with a rich and textured
theatre language. At the level of content, there was a deep exploration of myths
and folk tales to reinterpret them for our times. Several playwrights wrote plays that
integrated the modern and the traditional in both content and form to provide texts
that opened up innumerable possibilities. Vijay Tendulkar’s Ghasiram Kotwa/ and Girish
Karnad’s Hayavadana were the most signiﬁcant examples of this effort and in a way

mentioned above. Further enrichment is sought by interaction with various arts like

dance, painting and music, as also multimedia, to explore different dimensions of
theatre language: the work of Anuradha Kapurwhere she sets up active collaboration
with visual artists; Veenapani Chawla who works with an actor trained in the martial
arts of Kerala and other dance forms; Maya Rao, a trained Kathakali dancer, picking
up contemporary themes as an actress; and young directors like Abhilash Pillai who

take hold strides by creating a complex network of multimedia, dance and narrative
forms to create an extremely layered and rich performance. And then there are several
dancers moving towards dance theatre, just as there are visual artists who are taking
a step towards theatrical presentation with installations. We have seen some very ﬁne

productions which have resulted from these various attempts.
In this context, it is interesting to note that several Asian collaborations are being

set up that further explore what we share in terms of our legacy and culture, and
what defines our identity as distinct from each other. This opens up new directions
and areas of exploration. i feel that such cross—cultural collaborations work well in

set a trend for future experimentation in this direction. But it must be pointed out

music, dance and the fine arts, particularly when there is one—to-one interaction.

that the initiative for this fusion of the modern and the traditional actually came from
the directors. As early as the T9505 and 605 HabibTanvir, Shombhu Mitra and Shanta
Gandhi were experimenting with tradition to make topical comments, and each of them
discovered a distinct style and approach to do this. This was continued later by several
other directors in the ﬁeld. B.V. Karanth seemed the most creative of the directors of this
genre, as his work was always an eclectic and wild mix of the traditional, the urban,
the popular and the experimental. While his work did have his characteristic signature
both as director and music director, the language of his work was never ﬁxed and varied

It does not seem to reach much depth in theatre in most cases. This might be so,
firstly, because theatre is a collective exercise and it is not easyto focus the area of

according to the text he picked up.
The scene is therefore full of vigorous experimentation, creating very exciting
theatre where each individual is responding to the inﬂuences around him, as also
with the problem of identity, in different ways, thereby creating his/her own brand
oftheatre. Theatre has traversed a long journey to arrive at a maturity where all the
inﬂuences exist in the subconscious, and a rich and varied theatre is being created by

search with too many people involved. Secondly, theatre involves several arts and any

worthwhile collaboration would open up all these areas and demand in—depth work
on all these fronts for the process to reveal new dimensions. For instance, the moment

you start dealing with the words in a text to examine their context in different
cultures, it will take you towards the actor’s body and the sounds of the culture, along
with the distinct visual connotations. But to deal with all these areas needs a lot of
time, and invariably groups are not able to work together for long periods of time.
Collaborations in theatre therefore need to be thought through more carefully for
them to yield new insights.
Yet another emerging trend is of solo shows by actors. Theatre is essentially a
collective form or has evolved as one, even though traditionally one is aware of one—
rnan performances in the form of ballad singing, or the Greek plays that had only one

artists with their unique personal visions.

thespian. In recent times many directors and actors have taken to solo performances.

One crisis the world over is that of a shortage of good dramatic texts.This is
probably so because the society is changing at a very fast pace and therefore does not
allow the time and aesthetic distance to respond to a topical reality. By the time one
responds to an issue the reality has already changed. The problem of shortage of good
plays dealing with topical concerns is being handled by drarnatizing stories, novels,
poetry and letters by established literary ﬁgures, as also evolving scripts through
improvisation.Whether it is Amal Al lana attempting magical realism in her production
based on Marquez’s story (fiend/ta), B. Jayashree examining the character of Manthara,

These have worked or are meaningful as and when they are driven by an internal need
to say something specific through this format, or by a desire to explore this format.
But these raise questions when they are resorted to as a practical solution to the non—

Usha
Shaoli Mitra exploring the morality of the treatment meted out to Draupadi,

Gariguli drarnatizing Roda/i, or Naseeruddin Shah presenting the stories of Manto, these
are all creative extensions of earlier experimentation in this direction by many directors
in almost all the regions. What is comparatively new is a large body of productions
that are based on unconventional text—sources — like ﬁction, poetry, biography and
individual
autobiography, ﬁeld research, interviews, essays, etc. These are emerging from

concerns which probably the existing dramatic texts do not address. For example, we
have Anarnika Haksar's Raj Darpan based on the history of the Dramatic Performances
Act, Anuradha Kapur’s Sundari based on the autobiography of the legendary Gujarati
actor who played female roles, Waman Kendre’s Jaan-e-rnan based on the lives of
eunuchs, Mohan Maharishi’s Einstein trying to ﬁnd a dramatic language to talk about
science, or my own production Aur Kitne iii/(re based on interviews with survivors of the

Partition. Probably such unconventional texts also push the directors to search for a new
theatre language that can deal with these genres. All these contribute to extending the
boundaries of theatre.

some
availability of time, actors and money. Nevertheless, one must reiterate that

nt
exciting work has emerged in this format lately and it has become an independe
say.
to
wants
s/he
how
and
say
space for the actor to say what s/he wants to
in all the work that is happening the most promising and strong voice that
dalits.
is emerging is that ofthe marginalized groups of society, like women and
they
Having been exploited and subjugated and denied public space for centuries,
As
view.
of
point
their
state
are now coming forward with courage and conﬁdence to
against
protest
a
—
bias
political
strong
a
marginalized groups their theatre often has
productions are
inequality, which gives it a special edge. The dalit writing and wornen’s
are distinctly
There
.
approach
and
s
aesthetic
different
a
asserting
y
quietly but deﬁnitel
tion in modes that are at
different concerns emerging in their productions — presenta

as they are providing
variance with the established ones. Their work has great promise
that stems from their own
an alternative viewpoint; they are creating a new idiom

where individual and
perception and way of looking at life. in a globalized world
dernism recognizes the
postmo
where
and
concern
great
of
group identity is a matter
es are likely to occupy centrestage
importance of alternative narratives, these narrativ
for the simple reason that they have
for some time to come. They will take centrestage

a lot to say and, being new entrants, they want to
work exciting.

say it with a passion that makes their

