Excerpt from

’Reassernbling the Modern:
An lndian Theatre l\/lap since independence’
Anuradha Kapur
Director, National School of Drama, New Delhi, India

in the 19905 some very challenging work has been done by women directors as they

life, betray their beloveds, Because inner lives veer, falter, expand and contract, an entire

have shifted the debate towards new forms, and towards new subjectivities,Though

story may begin and end in a simple everyday action. So while, on the one hand, there

their productions are very different, a broad trajectory unites them: their bringing the

may be no’event’ to speak of, several life—changing decisions may have altered the

question of gender on the stage, which has remained almost unaddressed in modern

perceptual maps of the characters.

performance. This body of work presents two things: it considers as its subject a sort of

action, where an exceptionally transﬁguring moment is not conspicuous on stage. To

this experience in ways that displace some of the narrative strategies currently in

map these loops and breaks, these rneanderings and these faultlines, the plot has to be

use. Parenthetically, i must add that । see the articulation of such experience as not

made in such a way that its joineries are kept loose to allow deﬂection.To rework the

being attempted by women alone; but here i shall look at the work of women theatre

meaning of development in character as in plot — which is usually understood as being

practitioners working mainly in Hindi.l

a chain of events notching one into another in a directional way, and direction as being

What does attempting to put a gendered language in theatre imply? Are different

secured to the conventional pillars of storytelling (that of beginning, middle and end)

narratives, stories and characters sought to be produced? Are there altogether different

— traditional plot devices and even dependence on dialogic communication requires

ways of structuring event, life scripts and plot? Does that entail another way of
manipulating experiential time and space, and therefore ternporality, and therefore

questioning. The plot/character conﬁguration needs to transit towards a new set of
subjectivities in order to unsettle expected of portrayals. Changes in the way of drawing

seq uentiality .7

character result in redrawing the parameters of plot.

Women practitioners have experimented with the process and form of dramatic

Consequently, in some women’s theatrework plot is frequently circular and refuses

writing on the one hand, and with the processes of directing or constructing a play on

resolution: character can change status, personality and even gender, crossing society’s

the other, and have put in place a revised set of authorial and professional relationships.

artiﬁcially maintained boundaries of roles and station; objects can induce relationships,

For one thing, new dramatic structures that stress collective and cooperative working

and imaginary landscapes produce tangible attachments (as in the work of Neelarn

processes by giving precedence to performance rather than to the playscript have come

Man Singh Chowdhry and Anarnika Haksar).

into circulation. This has adjusted the perspective on both writing and on performing.

Neelarn Man Singh Chowdhry, who works in Chandigarh, runs a company of

it is possible to argue that event, plot and character shade into each other, at least
in theatre. And while it is self—evident that this is relevant to theatre made by men and
women alike, l bring this into discussion here as all the three coordinates have engaged

about twelve actors. They are both urban and non—urban performers. The non—urban

women practitioners one way or another.

cities and have obtained a modern education, in drama schools or universities. By

A sequence of events is plot; provided we consider plot not just as a simple journey

performers are called Naqqa/s, female impersonators who sing, dance and do stand-up

comedy, mimicry and balladeering. Other actors in her company have grown up in
putting such a company together, Neelarn Man Singh manages to construct before

from one event to another: for an event can be such that it can come to pass in mental

our very eyes, folk traditions in collision (and therefore in transformation) — with the

space, or it can occur in physical, material space. All events, even mental ones, are

’contemporary’ in lndian theatre, with contemporary lndian 'bodies’. Such collisions

physicalized on stage, as happenings. On stage, action is only action if it is visible or

make ’tradition’ unstable and the audience is forced to rethink it. Because Neelarn puts

physical. This physicalization takes place largely on the actor’s body (which stands in, as

female impersonators side by side with urban actresses, today’s women so to speak,

it were, for the character’s body) and through the mise-en-scene. If events are plotted
in space (and time), as well as on the character’s body, then there is no easy way to

she also destabilizes gender representations.
In some senses, there is a reluctance in Neelarn Man Singh Chowdhry to pin down

separate event from character (for the character is the carrier of event) and character

women to any readyrnade interpretation; in her productions of Yerrna, ] Madwoman

from plot.

] and Fida, 4 there is an excess — costume, gesture, speech and temperament break
the bounds of the permissible and expand by theatrical invention into eloquent
melodrama, passion and agitation — that allows for a generosity of character. Neelam’s
theatricalization onerma’s desire is an example. Yerma sings and laments, expressing
her yearning for a child; while Yerrna tosses on the ground, a rope, strung between
two twigs field in the hands of two female impersonators, is set alight above her head;

Recent work by women has sought to re—estimate the nature and meaning of
‘event’, that life—altering unit of time, by conﬁguring event as related to character and
not entirely to heroic action. Events may be fragmented into a series of moments. And
these moments may not appear to be life-changing but may still be so; they may not

appearto make ostentatious or grand revisions to our existence and yet initiate death,
departure, deception and atonement. During the space of a meal or a song, during a
glance held or a rnorsel swallowed, people may ‘die’, make liaisons, decide on a new

10

These seemingly timid or faint manoeuvres might also be designated indirect

experience that may have been for the most part invisible till now; and then visibilizes

the female impersonators stay irnpassive and stolid, as if made of stone; the ﬁre eats
up the rope and a tracery of ash crumbles on to Yerma The ash, the song, the longing,

