bracketed between two chirnerical women, unsettle many assumptions — about

permeable, not unyielding and predetermined. By making fragility central to structure

corporeal and illusory women (and men), about love, desire and bonding.
Destabilizing or deconstructing gender norms has been a concern in Amal

and plot, these productions raise some crucial questions about re-historicizing narrative

Allana’s work as well. Amal Allana, who works in Delhi, seeks to make gender mobile,

as it were, by disturbing stereotypes. This she does by shifting and restructuring the
elements of gender in her production of HirnmatMai,5 for example, where she cast
the distinguished actor Manohar Singh in the part of Mother Courage/Himmat Mai.
By making this exceptional casting she reallocated the attributes of femininity and

in ways that can animate the problematic of gender and subjectivity, of identity and
lndianness, and manoeuvre the razor’s edge between the ’traditional’ and the ’modern’
for our time.

masculinity — passivity, patience, nurturing, sympathy, on the one hand; aggression,
courage, bravery, single—mindedness and authority, on the other — from a wornan’s

’role’ to a rnan’s’body’ and vice versa, and thus redeﬁned them,
My work too has been concerned with upsetting sexual and gender hierarchies.
TWo projects that dovetailed into each other examined cross—dressing and, by allusion,
androgyny. The ﬁrst performance was a one—woman show along with an installation

that was based on a Bertolt Brecht story, Thejob.6 The Job is about a woman who
takes over her dead husband’s post, which is that of a night—watchman in a factory,
and irnpersonates him for fouryears to keep her children from starving She wins high
praise for her courage and loyalty, and then, because of an accident in the factory, she is
discovered to be a woman. No amount of pleading, legal or otherwise, gets her the job
back. It is given to those who have ’male’ stamped on their papers.

This play attempted to look at the repercussions of a woman becoming a man;
its dangers and its transgressions, and, in the context of the story, its disastrous
consequences. For me it was especially important to consider this subversive

masquerade as the reverse, or the negative, of the concept offemale impersonation, as
female impersonation continues to exist in lndia as an honoured tradition.7
Sundari: An Actor Prepares8 is a performance based on the autobiography of the
celebrated female impersonator, laishankar Sundari, who performed all over lndia
between ]90] and 1931.9 Sundari became the rage of Bombay — enormously popular
especially with women, for whom he became a sort of model, setting the style for
everything from dress to deportment. The performance sought to investigate the

enigmatic presence of the man—woman ﬁgure in the theatre, and the cross- gender
fascination it has characteristically conjured in audiences. Even though the premise of
female impersonation almost always rests on the idea of an essential femininity, its
performance sought to emphasize that gender is actually constructed in practice, and

that it is ill fact encoded in demeanour, costume, manner and convention.
Consistently concerned with ﬁnding unorthodox expressive structures within
the theatre, Anarnika llaksar’s work does not play by any standard rules of storytelling
— her narratives are non-linear and non—convergent, often circular; they are baggy
and meandering, not tight and conclusive. By making room for interjections, lapses in
concentration and changes in direction, Anamika Haksar makes a formal subversion,
as it were, and plots an unusually generous narrative, encompassing stylization and
naturalisrn, inner and outer realities, material and spiritual worlds. Antar l’atra,10 a

production she directed in the mid—l 9905, is profoundly affected by the structure of the
playing space, which was a constructed circular tent opening into a 70—foot deep ﬁeld.
The lives of her epic characters unfold, expand and take in the wide ﬁeld, which then
' For a more detailed reading of‘feminist’ theatre practice in India, see Anuradha Kapur, ’A Wandering Word, an Unstable Subject; Theatre/ham, No.

gets translated into becoming their mental prospect, their drearnscape. Desire, thought
and longing are made visible, manifest, in this vast expanse, and simultaneously made
contingent, conditional, on atmosphere and on topography.
This distribution of the attributes of the self into landscape, objects, scenery and
props makes character ephemeral as it were, and breaks up the notion of the uniﬁed

3, May 2001, pp. 5712

individual. It puts to question among other things, the notion of characterization

essen, SuhrkampVerlag, Frankfurt am Main, 1997

lAfter Lorca’s play. The production was made and extensrvely performed in theearly 19905.
‘Anadaptation of Madwornan of (hail/or by Jean Grraudoux, produced and performed in the 19905
‘Based on Racine’s Phaedra perforrried in the late 19905
क्या adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's Mather (or/rageand Her (hildren, Hirnrnat Mar was produced in the early 1990,
CBased on Bertolt Brecht's story 'The Job', the play was produced in the nod-1990s, It had an installation and Video animation by theartist

Nalrni Malani, and was translated into Hindi by Atul Tiwari. See Bertolt Brecht, Collected Stories, edited and introduced by John Willettand Ralph
Manheim, Methuen, London, 1983, 1999 Also Bertolt Brecht [19331, Der ArberrsplatzOder fin SchwersseDenies Angesrchrs sol/st Du item Brat

female impersonation has a long and varied history in lndia. Among the traditional theatre forms thatemploy female impersonation are

itself. It foregrounds the provisionality of life scripts, which are frequently full of

Krishnattam, Ramlila, Raslrla, Yakshagana. Therukuttu, Bhavai, Jatra These forms are principally devoted to enacting epic and mythological
materials Women were disallowed from the stage all the way till the late nineteenth century, and when they come into thetheatre, as also into

contradictions that are hard to resolve into any coherent representation.
In conclusion, theatre made by women directors of the 19905 attempts to undo

cinema. in the twentieth century. they were usually courtesans, but notwrthstanding thestrgrna connected to acting. singing and dancing, there
was an overlap between ferriale impersonators and actresses The smaller, walk-on parts were reserved for women and the more complicated
characters, for female rrtipersonators, sortie ofwhom achieved unrivalledsuccess. such as larshankar Sundan 11889-19751 and Hal Gandharva

the sutures that might have been put in place to hold together the idea of a composite
lndian identity. The ﬁgural paradox of the female impersonator stages the questions of
gender and identity — essences are undone through performance. Tire feminine then
becomes a masquerade, a staging, one of many possible guises. The impermanence of
such rnasquerades is stressed and, as a consequence, character itself becomes porous,

(1888»19671
lSurrriari Arr Actor Prepares was produced rn the late i990s The design was by artists Bhupen Khakhar and errma Sherkh, themusic design was by
Vidya Rao, and the dramatization was by Geetanjalr Shree and Drnesh Khanna
‘Sundan's autobiography was in part written and rn part dictated by Sundan to his son, Dinkar Bhojak Jarshankar Sundari / Dinkar Bliojak, Theda
Ansu fhaaa Fur, Shivji Asher. Vora 84 (o , Ahrnedabad, 19/5 recently translated into llrndr by Dinesh Khanna as Tirade Arisu Tirade Phi/i, National

School of Drama, Delhi. 2002
l‘V‘Anrar Yatra was based on llanko Atilral's (flapparikarant (The jewel/ed Arr/clef), traditionally believed to have been composed in ﬁfth century AD.

11

