THEGROUP
THEPLAY
Nari Binodini is based on the autobiography ofthe actress Binodini,Aamaar Katha
— a remarkable document as it is one ofthe earliest such accounts by an lndian
woman, which describes her coming into public life and having the courage to
assert her independence and identity. A prostitute by birth, Binodini was among
the ﬁrst women actors to walk the boards of the public stage in Calcutta, rising
to become one of its most successful stars. Staunchly opposed by a class and
caste—ridden society that was unable to tolerate a 'polluted’ woman donning the
garb of either dew/goddess or brahrnin royalty on stage, Binodini was hailed and
castigated in turn, making hers a dramatic and complex life, full of highs and lows.

THEPRODUCHON
Vacillating between images of herself as a ’saint’ and 'sinrier’, the production is
conceived of as a series of moments of Biriodini’s performances and events of her
life. As an older Binodini recollects her past in the process of committing it to her
diary, her memories collapse one upon another, entangling her life and art, and
making them inseparable in her consciousness.
What is memory? Fragments of incidents, snatches of music, emotions re—lived.
The idea of fragmentation, then, has guided the director of the play to piece together
the life of Binodini in a form of presentation that is liquid and sensory. Scenes move
seamlessly between past and present,deriving a pattern that is based on ’emotional
memory’ rather than an unfolding of a chronological sequence of events.
The character of Binodini is fragmented too. Played sometimes by one
performer, sometimes as a duet, or sometimes chorally by all five actresses, the
director has fabricated a strategy that allows the performance to levitate above
reality and become part of a ‘stream of consciousness’.
The text includes enactments of Binodini’s performances at times. For
example, we see her in rehearsal of Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s Meghnod
Bodh, with Girish Gfiosh instructing her how to play the scene of Chitrarigada
castigating her husband Ravaria for sacriﬁcing their child. While Binodini finds it
difficult to grasp the enormity of the emotions she is being called upon to render
by the director Ghosh, she does so in the following scene when she is betrayed by
her realvlife lover. Drifting away from the confrontation with her lover, Binodini re—
enacts the same scene with real, felt emotion. At every juncture the performance
underlines how life and art are intrinsically entwrned, one feeding on the other.

The climax. ofthe play is a re enactment of Binodini’s most famous role as the
male saint, Shri Chaitanya, in (ha/toriyo leeloThis performance is regarded as a

iriilestone in Bengali theatre history as Shir Ramakrishna Pararnahans came in person
to the performance, and was so taken up with it that he left blessing both Binodini

and the theatre Binodini regarded this gesture of blessing by a spiritual leader as the
highlight of her life. for her it meant that she had finally been socially accepted.

Theatre & Television Assocrates, established in i985, is a production company
specializing in the performing arts, the visual arts, television projects, and the
management of cultural events on a national anti international scale,
Over the last 24 years,TTA has made a consolidated attempt to explore different
aspects of lndian culture, the primary aim being to project a modern indigenous
sensibility in the arts, in a contemporary context. This has involved working in a
number of intererelated disciplines like theatre and dance, painting, the designing
of exhibitions on photography, and in television documentaries. The question of
modernism that has roots in tradition, and derived from an Asian context, has played a
significant part in the choice of work undertaken by TTA.
Recent theatre productions by TTA include Girish Karnad’s Nogomondolo, Satish
Alekar’s Begum Borve, Prashant Dalvi's (liar (fraught, Brecht’s Mother Courage,
Shakespeare’s King leor, Mahesfi Elkunchwar’s Sonora, Erendrro (हूँ Her Heartless
Grandmother (based on a short story by Gabriel Garcia Marquez), Notr Binodini
(based on the autobiography of the nineteenth—century stage actress, Biriodini),arid
Metropolis (based on Ibsen’s Hosmerslio/m, Hedda Goo/er and A Doll’s House, and set | n

Murnbai during 26/1 i ) . In recent years,TTA has travelled with its theatre productions
internationally, and its work has been represented at the most important theatre
festivals. An offshoot ofoieatre & Television Associates is The Dramatic Art 8t Design
Academy (DADA), a training institute for acting and design, founded in the year 2000.

