THE PLAY
Women like Sakubai deal with the most trying of circumstances with great strength
and endura nce.They have been part of our lives for years. in Mumbai they are called
bars, and in other parts of l ndia they may be called ’aayaj’am/naj’khansaminj nanny
Whatever they may be called and whereverthey may live, the truth is that we cannot
do without them. We survive because of their often unrecognized and unsung efforts!

D| R ECTO R'5 NOTE
i believe that the pertor mance oi a play is the Director’s lilote. But since my group

insists that l should vvrrte one, I am trying to write rtihis (Saki/boil is the second play
that l have written; the ea rl 1 er one was Dot/oshonkor kr‘ [.‘rrrrry, Aite r Sokuoor, l have
vvrrtten Sir/non Aur Sarto, ,r’orsr Aopkr riiorzr, rflrrerotion ci’ourgihrrrsts a nd, last yea r,

Footr‘rotes oit’rieihese plays are outpourings oi years of experience and sensitivity
which I received as a hereditary grit irorn my parents. l give the entire credit ior my
sensibility to them, My iather, Comrade Sayyed Sayyad Zaheer, and my mother, Razra
Sajjad Zaheer, both were great writers and patriots. l how my head to them.
ihis play deals with the story oi a common working woman of modern lndia
coming from the lowest strata oi society it is a virtuoso so|o«actor performance,
presenting the tale oi Sakubaiihe play tries to portray all shades oi society through
the eyes of deprived, struggling working women.
The scars of class distinction rn our society put us to shame as cultured and
sensitive human beings, it also raises questions like are uppereclass, educated,

ﬁnancially independent women actually independent and stable, or is this a myth .7
Though the theme of the play rs serious, the treatment is light and funny
l would like to thank Santa—ii ior accepting this play and putting her best
possible eiiorts into rnakrng Suki/hot successiul. A very big thank you to my group
without whose support i would not be what l am today. Last but not the least, l really
appreciate my respected audiences who have always been encouraging to us. Because

of you we have survived, and have not succumbed to doing mediocre bedroom
com ed res.

Aop ko Eli/rite in shot shot pro/round

THE GROUP
Ekiute Theatre Group has pioneered various forms oi theatre since its iormation in i 98 i
under the guidance of Nadira Zaireer Babbar. it has staged more than 40 musicals, social
dramas, comedies, children’s plays and street plays over the last 25 years, in various parts
oi lrrdia and abroad. Among its best known productions are Drivcts/ior'rko/ ki Diary, Sukubo/
and lirhudr kr’lcrdkiihe theatre productions oi Ekrute include the works oi Bhasa, Bertolt

Brecht, Albert Camus, Agha Hashr kashmirr, Badal Sircar, ,laywant Dalvi,_lohn Osborne,
Eugene O’Neill, Arthur Miller, Shanta Gandhi and Dario io. Ekiute has provided a platiorm
to several prominent theatre artistes, among whom are Anupam Kher, Kiron Kher, Alok

Nath, Ashish Vidyarthi, Sarita Joshi, Anita Kanwar, Satrsh kaushik, Raia Bundela, Ravi
Baswani, Kavrta Chauclhar‘y,Sushmita Mtrkiieriee,GirJa Shankar, Raiesh Puri, Raiendra

Gupta, Deepak Oazir, Lalit Par‘imoo, Zakrr Hussain, Shaikh Saint, Raiendra thawla, Rakesh
Meirra, Ral‘rul Chauclhary, Seema kapoor, Surieel Sinha, Neha Sharad and Mandakini

Goswa m i.
Ekjute conducts theatre workshops on a regular basis, including workshops tor
children, to help build talent 111 theatre. lire Ekiute Young People's lheatre Group was
established lll Witt,
ikrute’s theatre productions have travelled around the world and representer‘l
lrrdra at var rotrs inter national theatre iestivals: the ltA lhearre iestrval in Bahrain, the
Seventh interrratrorral lair l heatre Festival rn lran, the iiarrgrrranch l heatre it‘Sll‘.’dl a;
Shopping Festival in Dubai and the hair Peer llreatie Workshops lestrral rn l rrirore, to
r to 1 I re a iew,

17

