r ष 3V उ-सबी-जिल

८३

- ।श८त्रु१' :1

TH E PLAY
THE DIRECTOR &TRANSLATOR
'v ' I r ’V
Sunil Pokharel’s impact on modern Nepali theatre is
J
‘‘
remarkable. His career in theatre -- as actor, director,
scene designer, choreographer and organizer -- started
in 1978, even before he graduated from the National
. ,
School of Drama, Delhi, in 1987. He has directed many
रा, V i, ८५ important Nepali, Indian and European plays over these
.rmgiik years. in 2003, Sunil Pokharel and his Aarohan Theatre
Group founded a drama school, Gurukul, in Kathmandu, after the Indic tradition
of apprenticeship. He has also established an eastern regional theatre centre in

This play, which has seen T80 performances in Nept , ndra, Bangladesh, Pill-il‘Sidll,
Norway and Denmark, is a Nepali translation of oils House by Henrik Ibsen v a
central ﬁgure in the intellectual life of modern Eurcipe and regarded as the tather of
modern drama

,

.r'

DIRECTOR’S NOTE ५ 1: ३
i ‘ i _ i _ i h [wing 0fieheaisai, i found that ‘dihm‘a is hiogeiy connected io‘Oiii hie; i don't

Biratnagar (the second largest city of Nepal). Both these have become signiﬁcant

है know if life blends with‘drama pr drama with life. I have imagined you as a‘witness to

alternate spaces for theatre workers in Nepal, to train in theatre and produce plays.

३५

In recognition of his dedication to the promotion ofNepali theatre, the Nepal

त्मा; drama (or 1111 i don't khow whaihioximiiy क्या] Wiii hind between your life and

this piay‘ihe Spacerahov‘e iS foiyh‘ii ‘ ५ r “ । है

५ ‘ ५.

.

‘ ।`

Government recently awarded Sunil Pokharel the National Talent Honour.

५

i oflpeOplewhocultivate'ﬁelds _ .
5 in thehillls‘hand keep herds in thefhigh जा हूँ

daisconstantly prOvid‘e energy to the _
.
arohanTheatre Group has celebrated this । ।
हु: .cultLiraldiversity and dynamism by । , atingthe‘atre ‘f‘orth‘e proscenium as wellias for , ‘

३ शीहैंप्रक्ति‘एँहंर्वशांपृणीठितुड़ठाष्णाणाहुगृद्गी atre aspoliticsjas a form ofresis ‘ ३ tothe
मृपृ passiVity indU§ed bythe globalized

onsumer-oriented massm ३

‘ ‘ ३ Establishedin‘Kat ’ '

३ . next festival will be held in, November 2mO‘L'Simultaneously,Aarohan has
participating in international festivals inIndia, Bangladesh,‘Pakistan S

Norway,Denmark‘and,rRussia.1 f ' "

मैं ' ५ _ i.

. 1.1”

'

ष Since 2003 Aarohan has beenrunning :Gurukul, a school and c_
Kath‘rnandu.,}andrecently it established its, easternregional centrein
‘ i _ novv workingtowards instituting a 4-year bachelor's degree progra

’ H

