D| RECTO R 'S NOTE
ओपि"

rl :rlrii l l" ’ rirrt‘rtrrrl 3 ' "Witty". :ﬂurrr . rv / :rrwl

‘. Vu’k '३ ‘Mk' ‘m मी" ‘ "क्या

rim ll‘ , ‘ ‘

घाणी' ll” ३ Willi" स्म" ,lril.“ t rr riirvr’li'l “if 'rl । il"’i,ir1‘1ri’.‘lt‘ ,l

tlrt1 lilt‘ﬂltlll‘ {tyrrrlr‘rﬂrrirr‘ r 'दुरूनृणाणा ‘rr l yam, गृहँ 'है ,i r,i,i दृ… y (W, १ I ,.—,,-, I. My V] 1, My ,. ‘ I,

“715ml h ] rilllr’l/"l‘l ‘73 H‘rll

"माँ "५८" " rrlirr' l ‘ क्या? 7"?“ Lorry l ir'i ‘1 ‘rr स्थानं

il'lll".'rl'rli’.liril i could ilt‘t‘r'rlyr ririrt'ul ,rrrrir
it" l ‘tt i‘ ii‘-‘oill“‘l lry “tarry i’l.lti’,ilrrii ilira,

.

t rr y n, y,» ig m. ।ति

lt‘ll’tllll'i it‘d o",‘l‘l‘l‘ tilt” "Till illli hilt} ’tik‘rtl‘a',’i:llll]‘yi [ मूद्भुर्णपिं। i9“ ३ rffyrl'l‘ हुँ y

llit‘ illi‘lrr .rritl'ri til tii‘lil l ’ri‘rit‘t‘rlrgrl WRU‘C‘Iii‘r ९४ र्णध्दभि'ण'च्चों'ट्वें ,r'r

\l'yywr "‘yc पिं-

दु lay“ lice/i fir

r irir’hlilir trons ’rl .i क्या' tori दृ. mi in त्यागि; 'क्या at 'किं दृ/श्या'मृ" tine

ill/,2 चं.-

trrrr‘tu "31६५'८३'

l al‘rirti'rrit l‘rt‘il tire [क्या wt‘l‘: playfulness trail rrrrr “tr actor . rrr'rprrrrr »,

r‘hr’iut the स्थाई

itiri'litri'il T’tr‘iir क्या" talrrrzi rr;l .,rtrrsltrrrrr llrt‘i'i tr rs‘niitis tlerelrrifrr'rr; tire" own cremtr‘rii’

'
fl“ till-dill“ rill‘l r ir‘iitl‘lttit‘si‘kl‘t Higil’lfl क्या" To *‘i't'urire, lain: fun and ‘l'r‘irr है?" मात्माप्यामृह्मा
of their limits This prr rtr'rl eri their r [ ertirlttr “tr the «ir'r’ri‘irriucrr ,1. :rorlri 'भाणा by "Err ‘ ll

THE PLAY
liarnarl tr yir’rrlrl article fictional character s anti 'त्मा सृग्निद्गहंदृचंरेल्पनु- rr‘f-Wr‘rrr‘ci‘e anti the ‘ r‘e"

In Girisir Karnad’s celebrated play Nagamanda/a (i 990), the rrrairr protagonist,
Rani, recognizes irer world of desire and celebrates her sexuality even while
functioning within a patriarchal structure. Reality is eschewedin this play as it is
set in a non—realistic, non—urban space, and within the realrrr of folk culture.
Tire story revolves around an unhappy bride, Rarri,who ﬁlls her loneliness by
conjuring fantasies, drearrrs and illusions to give rrrearrirrg to her lifeThese stories
then start functioning independently of her; such is the power of the unconscious
that a fantasy can take on a life of its ownThe playwright uses folk structures and
folk elerrierrts to set into rrrotiorr a storytelling technique that allows rrragic, rrrytir
and rrretaplrors to weave in and out of realistic settings.
Although the story is taken from traditional rrraterial and rooted in the
folklore of the region of Karnataka, the delineation of ciraracters and the layering
of tiie content are rrroderrr in their psychology, interpretation and characterization.
Tire audience is invited to look beyond the represented to an alternative world: a
world where a chorus of ﬂames speaks rrrore eloquently than irurrraris and where

lrctweerr tire visible and the irrirsihle are blurred.

a snake takes a hurrrarr form.The character of the irusbarrd, for example, is split

into two. in his hurrrarr form he is a coarse and boorisir man who brutalizes his
wife during the day, but at night ire changes into a divine lover — a Naga—Raja.
Tire two halves are unaware of each other — botir exist in one another — and botir
are each other’s divided self, contradicting and contrasting with one another in
a dyrrarrric play of fantasy and illusionThis duality is played out within all the
characters of tire playihe story is grounded in reality, with its daily chores of
washing and cooking. But within that world the characters take ﬂight, inhabiting
a ﬂuid and rrragical world where anything can happen.

THE GROUP
The Conrparry, a group with a mix of rural actors and urban performers, was
established in i984 in Chandigarh by lieelam iVlan Singh Cirowdirry Over the last
25 years, it has created theatre that fuses source material wrtir a performance style

grounded in Puniabr aesthetics, The Company counts among its per formers a group
of hogan/s (female rn‘rpersontitorsl . Traditionally, the illtrtratrt per for'mance is designed
for pleasure as well as proht. it is a form without a firm or continuous tradition, and ti T हैं
liltrgguls have become master adapters. Allusron, parody anci comic rnterludes are the
main ingredients of their performance. They include in their repertoire urban issues,

alongside stories of gods and goddesses, legendary heroes, tales crt bltrritr and miracles,
all enacted in idiomatic speech.
The collaboration between the urban actors and the dragon/s has led to marry
l‘irorrrnrr
productions: an adaptation of tor/nit by federico Garcia torca, The r‘iitrci

or Chin/lot by lean Cirraudoux, Phaedra by lean Racine, kitchen karr‘rtr, रैणा] r‘il
a
strpe/rritrr'ket, do l/nposteci lore letter and dingorrrantitrra by drrrsh ls'arnad, to name

few. The Company has par trcrpateil in nraior national and international festivals, The
of
international festivals it has been a part of are Tire lorrdon international lestrial
l
,
Theatre l l‘l‘ll, lthfr, l ‘l‘lt’l, l he i estivtrl d 'tlsriiglirurr t limit), The festival of Perth l i‘lil“
titiitir,
Hairrlrtiicl
in
fesrrral
aokoon
l
e
ijiiiijtflh
Jiltrilr , l he Sirngapore fir ts fest l\ al
(गुणा-३, 3३३३७३८.
l he laparr lestrval of the Arts l Jitttir and The [arranr festival in lalroic‘
i, l notion in Jill l r 'i
llillol illumirr'r/rrtfrritr was staged in laparr rrr Jiltlf, and at 'sticlier li/ell
by the
fill the plays produced by l he Coirrparry have been translated rrrto Puniti’cir

eminent poet burlri l‘atarvrrtlr rrrtrsrr cirr'rrposrrrl by [-3 V lsararrtlr

23

