DlR ECTO R'S NOT E
in the iiluhirhharem, Draupadi is infinitely clothed and cannot be publicly disrooed lhe
episode of her disi’obing is yet another instance oi Krishna's miracles Dopdi in the play
is also someone Draupadi could never be ~ presented as she is, in the patriarchal and
authoritative sacred text, as pi’ooi oi inale power Dopdi is therefore at once an example
and a contradiction.

In the play, we do not explore Dopdi’s act as a reiutation oi the ancient tradition,
but we analyse the spontaneous emergence oi iemale politiccirsexual exploitation
lhe method used in creating a per ioi rnance out oi this story is deconstruction. lhe
performance invokes natural simplicity, instead oi sirnpliiicatii‘in, in riiakirig art
lhe play encapsulates the attempts in the [आरूश्चासांत्माक्षां era to convey the pain i ii
the oppressed.

THE PLAY
[)i'aupadi is an adaptation of Mahesweta Devi’s story about marginalized peoples
in remote areas of lndia who are continuously oppressed by the forces in power.
The protagonist Draupadi, or Dopdi as she is known in her community, is a Santhal
woman who ﬁghts against the atrocities that are being committed against her
tribelhe play depicts the life of this tribal community in the outskirts of Bengal.
Dopdi and her husband Dulna start their resistance out of personal need but
soon it becomes a ﬁght for the survival of their communitylribal revolutionaries
who identify themselves with the sons of the soil are now beginning to learn new
combat and survival techniqueslhe police is on the look out for them for the
killing of the master, and they go into hiding. Dulna is arrested and killed by the
police. Dopdi too falls in their clutches.

T H E GR 0U P
Established in i960 in lmphal, lialakshetia has evolved a distinctive theatrical style,
which is precloniir’iantly nonverbal. Steeped in the ivleiiei culture, the group has
crystallized the most crucial realities oi oppression and resistance through plays like
fiber and liilei‘noi'i» ntziiiicti, ll ia k i ng the spec tatoi alert
to the resilience oi the human spirit lli countering the cliiiiiinani anxieties oi the
t i n i e.

halak'ihetia is now eiiihaikiiii) on an experiiiieiiial pioiei i on the llllliil oi
Eiiiiieriiii], vvliii it has heen iieui lllli‘il as a llllllllli] point in truth .iri tillil icleuloiiy किं)
is pail iii the group's attempt to evolve a new iileiiliiiiii al ha .i'. ior iilli’ili , nor i.i|,

er i ii i i ii l iii a i l i i pi i l i i ii a l l ii i ', w i i l i ii lr‘ a il l i i ii the l lettei i i ie ri t i ii i i i i l ll ii i ii t y

29

