THE PLAY

The rather old-faslilon ed title, Thus Spake Shoorpanakha, $0 SaidShaka/1i, tomeatls
the
contemporary issues that are explored in the play. A man and a woman, Strangers
to ‘
each other, meet in a crowded airport somewhere in lndia,walting for a delayedﬂig
ht. - 7
Their'corrversation’ takes a curious turn as they begin to tell their life stories: the
,
stories ofShoorpa nak ha from the Ramayana and Sha kuni from the Mahabharata, The
५ ’'
३ ५ play intermittently travels back in time to the two epics and pulls them into present? ३

day'relevance.‘

I

_

'

Traditionally, the two characters in the play are considered villains: Shoorpanakha ३
३ p is depicted as grosseven grotesque;5hakuni as sly and rnanipulative.0ne, inner ३ ’

determination to take revenge, causes the War in Lanka betWeen Rama and Ravana. हुँ "हैं ह

_ _ The otherthe wily uncle ofthe Kauravas, is the cause ofthe tragic war between the , हँ' १
Pandavasandthe Kauravas. However,though both these ’rninorlcharactersare ‘crudal ५
. ५ to the epic narrative, they are forgotten once their function is completed! Here theyदृ

_ “ take Centre stage anddistu‘rb‘our received Understanding oftheirvvon‘d; ; ‘ ८ ५ e

दृ ५

x ५ पू ५ p पा ‘It ispossibly far theﬁrst timein Indian English theatrethat stories‘from theth, ५ ३
i . ड्े ' epicsare merged. innovativestage techniques, Whichinclu‘de onStage‘charige ५'५ ३
“ ie‘ostui‘ne‘san‘dmakeLuparebuiltintothetext.‘l ५ j" ५ ३33३३ ३' * ३

DIRECTOR’S NOTE

wf’illt‘l’iiétli u i ७३४३? H
j "Tn आंग्ना3 ५ tenl a l mutant?" दृदृ"

lo l

““at trains/om @iaadl on (but
द्वेनुइट्वेंल्जिशांख्याढा रेश्मा Ja 7lot it,, fl :hen trait

This is a remarkable play, a text that recreates and interprets ancient stories from the
lndian epics in very modern language. According to Shoorpanakha, Rama is ‘bowled
over’ by her; Shakuni speaks of his brother—in—law as ’such a dummy, an uncrowned
bloody king
The actors straddle different worlds, with changes in costume and make—up on
stage and in full view of the audience; this is built into the script. Thus the drarnaturgy
of the play uses elements of alienation in production design, creating an illusion and
simultaneously destroying it. This production emphasizes the alienation - actors are
actors only, not the characters they represent — so that we do not stir up our emotional

bond with our past.The play attempts a new examination without rubbishing the
original thought and faith. I do believe that our heritage can always be subjected to
new thinking. it does not take away from our received wisdom; rather, it strengthens it,
The play is in English, but as Indian as any play in any of the other lndian
languages. l have attempted to convey the ‘lridiarvness’ of this play through the music,
the costumes, and the overall style and design.
The play premiered on i2 September 2001, the day after the 9/l i attack on the
Twin lowers; the coincidence was chilling Sadly, the tragedy of hatred and revenge
continues forever to haunt humankind

like ReclaimtaiCs

THE GROUP
Theatre Club was founded in Bangalore by Poile Sengupta, well—known playwright
and actor, in l995. Its ﬁrst production was Poile’s Innerlaws. Apart from full—length
productions,Theatre Club also organizes evenings of readings from prose, drama and
poetry The group has performed in Delhi and Mumbai with local talent.Theatre Club is
a Trust which would like to promote lndian theatre in English.

31

