arm
me PLAY

षप

Sonata is an Indian—English play revolving round one Sunday evening in the livesjof',‘ ’ - ५
three women college friends, now in their middle age ३- a‘ banker, a college professor- ‘
and ajournalist, all well-established in their professions and single by choice. ‘1, ‘

The play explores their position in metropolitan society. It articulatestheir M “f: '1

‘

relationships, ideals,aims, psychology and sexuality. In the peaceful erivirOrrrrient,of‘a‘ , ३ ५ ‘ ३
apartment the play sometimes explodes into silences full of betrayaland unsheditears‘.

Finally, it transcends the most importantfactor - the lorIe and bonding thatthi‘ei’chree1 .
share despite all their differences.
५ ३ ष 1५ ५‘ '
‘ x“ ‘ ५ v ५
The play is very well—knit, and full of wit and humour. Itis punctuated by ‘ , ३ . i 1 ३ ‘
Robindmsangeet and Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata. it is both entertaining and,
discerning about life.
५

DlR ECTOR'S NOTE
Sonata is no doubt one of lvlahesh Elkunchwar’s best plays, and, like most of them,
it centres on the human factor. Human relationships and their complexities have

always been the ruling themes of Elkunchwar’s plays, and this is something that l have
always been attracted to and returned to repeatedly. Sonoth is about one long night
in the life of three friends. They are single, rniddleeaged, urban and ﬁnancially secure
How they connect, disconnect and reconnect makes up the main theme, with their

individualities, aspiration, sexualities, etc, all coming under scrutiny. Eventlessness is
the most appealing part of the play, as is a great text that challenges the skills of the
actors to keep it aﬂoat.

TH E GR OU P
Ensemble’s journey began in i 983 under the leadership of Sohag Sen, with a
commitment to doing good and meaningful theatre. The group’s novel approach
towards and fresh insights into various aspects of stage representation have,since
then, brought new life to Bengali theatre.
Ensemble has several critically acclaimed plays to its credit, including Party,
Uttorpurush and Motion/Non. Ensemble also claims the credit of introducing inﬂuential
playwrights from Indian as well as European theatre to the Bengali stage for the first
time. Among these, the names of Mahesh Elkunchwar, Nirrnal Verma, Satish Alekar and
Botho Strauss deserve special mention.
The concept of Theatre Workshop was integral to the system of acting followed
in the group, and developed from the motive of facilitating an actor’s contribution to
the play. Tire process involved inedepth discussion of the text, subtext, characters and

motivation, and not only made the productions a twoeway effort (bringing together
the director and the actor), but also proved indispensable in providing basic training to
the actors. The concept evolved in the course of time to purely ’Workshop Productions’
like Asohoy,Notnk/yu, Sir/r Niche and Rog ट्वे again a first in Bengali theatre history.

37

