THE PLAY
This play, which has seen l80 performances in Nepal, lndia, Bangladesh, Pakistan,

Norway and Denmark, is a Nepali translation ofA Dal/’5 House by Henrik lbsen —— a
central ﬁgure in the intellectual life of modern Europe and regarded as the father
of modern drama.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
. . . In course of rehearsal, । found that drama is closely connected to our life.
l don’t know if life blends with drama or drama with life. l have imagined you
as a witness to this drama (or life?) . I don’t know what proximity you will find
between your life and this play, The space above is for you.

TH E GRO U P
Theatre in Nepal has evolved front the lived experience of people who cultivate
ﬁelds in lush plains in the south, till terraced valleys in the hills, and keep herds in
the high mountains. Buddhist, Hindu and indigenous rituals constantly provide
energy to the theatre and stage. For the last 27 years, the Aarohan Theatre Group
has celebrated this cultural diversity and dynamism by creating theatre for the
proscenium as well as for the streets and villages. We pursue theatre as politics,
as a form of resistance to the passivity induced by the globalized and consumer,
oriented mass media.
Established in Kathmandu in l982,Aarohan has brought classics from
other parts of the world to Nepalese audiences, sometimes in their original form
and sometimes adapted to the Nepalese cultural sensibility. Aarohan organizes
international theatre festivals every two years. The lbsen International Theatre
festival organized in 2006 included ll performances from India, Bangladesh,
Pakistan and Norway. in the Kathmandu International Theatre festival of 2008,
l7 theatre groups from Nepal, lndia, Bangladesh, Thailand, England, Denmark,
Norway and USA participated. The next festival Will be held in November 20 1 0,
Simultaneously, Aarohan has been participating in international festivals in lndia,
Bangladesh, Pakistan, South Korea, Norway, Denmark and Russia
Since 2003 Aarohan has been running fitirukul, a school and t entre of theatre
in Kathmandu, and recently it established its eastern regional centre in Biratnagar
We are now work mg towards instituting a 4 year bar helor’s degree programme
in theatre

