THEGROUP
THEPLAY

llieatr'e & lelevision Assoc rates, established Ill liltlli, is a pioclnc tioii i onipany

Nati Binodini is based on the autobiography of the actress Binodini/tumour Katha
— a remarkable document as it is one ofthe earliest such accounts by an indian

woman, which describes her coming into public life and having the courage to
assert her independence and identity. A prostitute by birth, Binodini was among

the ﬁrst women actors to walk the boards ofthe public stage in Calcutta, rising
to become one of its most successful stars. Staunchly opposed by a class and
caste—ridden society that was unable to tolerate a ’polluted’ woman donning the
garb ofeither dew/goddess or brahrnin royalty on stage, Binodini was hailed and

castigated in turn, making hers a dramatic and complex life, full of highs and lows,

THEPRODUCHON

specializing in the perlornnnq arts, the vrsnal arts, television propii is, and the

management of cultural events on a national and inter nat ional st ale
Over the last 24 years, l lA has made a c onsohdated attempt to explore
different aspects of Indian culture, the pnrnary aim being to protet t a modern
indigenous sensibility Ill the arts, in a tonternpcirary t ontext. lliis has involved
working in a number of inter related disc iplines like theatre and don e, painting,
the designing of exhibitions on photography, and Ill televrsion doc nnientanes
The question of modernism that has roots in tradition, and derived lrorn an Asian
context, has played a siqnihc ant part Ill the c hon e ol work under taken by l In
Recent theatre productions by l l/\ lltt lnde (ansli Karnad’s Nncp/nn/rn/n/o,
Satish Alekar’s Begum serve, Prashant llalvi’s t liar ( hunt/hi, ltrec lit Mother
c our/roe, Sl‘iakespeare's hint] / ettr, Ma liesh l lknnr liwar , Sonata, / rend/m a; inv
t/et/rt/ess Grandmother (based on a short story by tialinel flan ia Marque/l, ll/otr

Vacillating between images of herself as a ’saint’and ’sinneri the production is
conceived of as a series of moments of Binodini’s performances and events of her
life As an older Binodini recollects her past in the process of committing it to her
diary, her memories collapse one upon another, entangling her life and art, and
making them inseparable in her consciousness.
What is memory.7 Fragments of incidents, snatches of music, emotions re—lived.
The idea of fragmentation, then, has guided the director of the play to piece together
the life of Binodini in a form of presentation that is liquid and sensory. Scenes move
seamlessly between past and present, deriving a pattern that is based on emotional
memory" rather than an unfolding of a chronological sequence of events.
the character of Binodini is fragmented too. Played sometimes by one
ciertiiirn‘ier, sometimes as a duet, or sometimes chorally by all five actresses, the

drector has bricated a strategy that allows he performance to levitate above
reality and become part of a "stream ofconsciousness.’

t inctade; enactments of Binodini; performances at times, for
exam; e
see tier in rehearsal of Michael ttladhosudao Datt’: i‘/tegitir'ioct
3' ~ 1r , . ‘ f i- , _ t दृ I r है. , … r
icon instructing her too to play the scene of (hitraogada
I

a

I

‘ 4

‘4

“T '33३' "er प्रादुद्रड्डेप्तादृईं Pa. aria fit-r sacrzhcmg their chito‘t‘v’htle Binodini find; it
:1 र्कड्ड.. रं
"है ३3२३ है, a" emotion: ;he i: berg called छापा" render
r

up; ~< 51:53, पृ, :yr‘
,

7‘,“ - ,1 . . .

s
‘r‘e . r ,. दृ

r

‘r on; (C

.
4 i ‘7 . n‘, v‘r,

के, स्का -दृ

,ir.
‘ ‘
r if“
,, e‘,.,

like“,

handle,”

,
r
, , ८ r) ,r r V i,j 1,.‘7
,,
,4, i (;,
Uy r t/iﬂ

Binodini (based on the dillOlllllQliliJlly ol the nineteenth i entnry stage at tress,
Binodini), and Metropo/iz (based on Ibsen", ltournersho/in, Hedi/o ooh/er a r irl /l
[to/ls Home, and set in lvlnrribai diinnq /h/ l l i In rect‘ttl years, l [A has travelled

With its theatre productions internationally, and its work श्या. lieen repre.ented
at the rnost irnportant theatre festivals. ftn ollslniot ol l heatre t‘i lelevi'aon
t‘voociate: l‘, lhe lirarnanc Art 8 lte'aqn hr aclerny ill/\lt/‘ti, a traininq lll',llllllt‘ lor
acting and design,lonndecl ill the year Milt

