About the organisation...
‘Hello’ is the most natural greeting in the world. But, till recently, it was not for Pawan. Pawan used colourful

swear words, hit other and never sat still for a moment. But when anyone from Jan Madhyam VISited his
ciassroorn, he clung to the person, clung to the puppets they had brought and hugged and kissed them.
Today, after Jan Madhyam had several sessions in his school, Pawan has changed. He still does not say ‘hello’
but he listens with more attention and does not disturb the puppetry class.

Nalini has Downes Syndrome — she is hyperactive and could not concentrate on any activity for more than
2-3 minutes. Today she can clean herself, cook, arrange papers correctly in her file, put things away after she

has used them. She joined Jan Madhyam’s Vocational Training and Rehabilitation Programme a year ago.
Mushira is a hearing-impaired child. When she joined Jan Madhyam’s Rehabilitation Project for the Girl Child
she did not talk at all. She could not draw or paint. She could not do any work with her hands. Today she is
learning to read and write. She is one of the most active participants. In fact, at times, it is difficult to get her
to stop talking.
Pawan, Nalini, Mushira are Children with Special Needs. No one knows their potential. None of these children
realized what they could do. With Jan Madhyam’s team, with its use of media, teachers and parents, too, are
beginning to discover the children’s strengths.
Who does Jan Madhyam reach?
Jan Madhyam reaches out to children with any kind of handicap, but more especially to children with :
जी

Learning Difficulties

*

intellectual Disabilities

How did Jan Madhyam start?
It all goes back to the 1983s when two media people interested in children began to create puppets and songs
and stories and took them to Jamia Nursery School which had a mixed group of children —— some with
disabilities, some without. The coming of the puppets became an event awaited with excitement.
Fun and excitement was not all that took place — the pioneers discovered the power of media to open the doors
to learning and participation for children who had failed to be part of the classroom so far.
The pioneers have come a long way from those first experiments.
Jan Madhyam Today
Jan Madhyam today had trained a group of educators to work through media with children with a wide range
of Disabilities.
Jan Madhyam today has group of parents who share their knowledge and experience of various Disabilities,
what works, what does not, who to go and when....
Jan Madhyam also had specialists who bring precise skills and commitment to the task of assessment,
planning and training to Children with Special Needs.

Jan Madhyam works with Special Schools, with Training institutions, with Parents and Volunteers.
What does Jan Madhyam do?
हैं

Remedial Work with the Mentally Retarded using media, songs, stories, the plastic arts, games, puppets
and specially developed programmes.

Vocational Training and Rehabilitation for children with Mixed Disabilities.
The vocational Training and Rehabilitation programme covers approximately 200 children. The programme

includes :
— Preparing chidlren to manage their basic needs like cooking, personal hygiene, first aid, and crisis
management.

