… Preparing children for economic productivity in either self-employed situations or as employees by
exposing them to the concepts of money and markets, quality control, completing tasks within a
tirnefrarne etc.
—— Preparing them for social and emotional integration in society.

Training People to work with the handicapped through workshop sessions and by demonstrations in their
classrooms .
Spreading Awareness about disabilities through exhibitions, quizzes, press campaigns, puppet shows.
Spreading information through compiling and distributing a directory of services, fact sheets and booklets.
Jan Madhyarn has reached out to a wide public — students, public sector corporations, people in
resettlement colonies, etc.

Increasing Services for the disabled and creating opportunities for them by motivating institutions to
integrate the handicapped, or start new services. Jan Madhyarn provides the institutions with diagnostic
support, training of teachers and information.

Jan Madhyam's work is based on the following :
*

*

progress.
The disabled need to be understood as people, who can, in the long run contribute to the nation's
l and educational
As insulin and pacemakers restore an invalid to active life, there are socio-psychologica
tools that enable people with handicaps to overcome a whole range of disabilities.

door to a self-reliant and
Jan Madhyarn is committed to developing and using these tools which can open the
independent life.
Jan Madhyarn
148,Janwudpur
New Delhi-110 048
Phone : 6473525

Jan Madhyam's Campaign to Create Awareness - Some Events
'Disability is no Bar to Achievement'
Face to Face

ride on November the 24th, 1991.
Children with Disabilities, physical and mental, enjoyed a train joy
to be part of the event, a glimpse of the hurdles
For the children it was great fun — for the railway officials invited
the children must cross to enjoy the ride.

A Rally with Difference
Rural Yough Organization led a bicycle rally.
On the dusty roads of rural Najafgarh, in January 1 991 , the Model
moment, carried placards, 'Disability is no bar-to
Young people, old people, enjoying the sunshine and the
had riding with them 50 persons — some wuth
achievernent'. Not only did they carry placards but they also

g the moment and giving the words of the slogan
orthopaedic disabilities, some with mental disabilities, sharin
a human context.

Market
Hunuman Mandir - In the Bustle of the

lities.
and hangings made by persons with Mental Disabi
A gay, attractive stall displayed bowls, plates, toys
y
e enjoying the bazar, the producers sat confidentl
Right there in the midst of customers and peopl
learn from them !
ct. Many children decided to join them and
demonstrating their skills, commanding respe

Naya Kadam.
2 November 1991 —— Dastakari Main ek

