Jan Madhyam's Pre Vocational Training and Rehabilitation : Some Small
Steps
Impressions of a Rehabilitation Team Member as recounted to a volunteer :
Tell me Leela, I said to her one day, about a few of the people you have worked with . Beaming, she proceeded
to talk of Brij Mohan, a twenty near old mentally challenged boy in a Special School.

'He had such a dislike of getting his hands messed up, he wouldn't even feed himself. It took ten or twelve fortyfive minute sessions and a lot of encouragement and friendliness from our team to get him to start eating a little
food on his own. Now he lights the gas, handles dough for chapatties and even washes up utensils. His teacher
in the Special School found our approach useful. She is better able to help him now.
She then spoke of Mohini, a nineteen year old young girl : Mohini’s mother, unfortu nater discriminates between
her and the others in the family— she isn’t given as nice clothes to wear and she is spoken to harshly. Naturally,
Mohini prefers her father to her mother, but when both her parents arrive late for a parent’s rnetting, Mohini
cries like a baby. We have been working towards making her feel wanted and also working with her parents.
They now agree that Mohini needs a job and must apply for one as it will help her self - esteem.
However small the steps forward, they are giant ones towards building confidence — the base on which simple
jobs and simple skills can developed.
Party Time

That is often an ernbarassing time for families — not because they do not love their children with Or without
handicaps, but the looks on the faces of guests, the averting of eyes or pity makes them tense...
It’s simpler to avoid bringing one’s child out.
The party in May was different. Here the hosts were children with different disabilities, the guests — parents
and friends, the venue — Jan Madhyarn’s Training Centre. Cooking, preparing, receiving guests, serving, the
children led the event with warmth, affection and competence!
May be there will be more parties at home now where this will happen.
Excerpts from a Case Study : Individual Journeys

N’ is a 16 year old young girl in the Pre-Vocational Training and Rehabilitation unit run by Jan Madhyarn. The
training program starts only after the psychologist in charge does a careful assessment of the student’s needs,
observes the student and talks at length with the parents. The psychologist and the Rehabilitation team identify

the goals for the next six months and the activities required to achieve them. Each day is carefully observed
and recorded.
The following excerpts give an insight into the step by step process that will lay the foundations for N’ ability

to take care of her basic needs, relate to family and acquaintances, and acquire some important hand skills
N’s Self Care in April 1993
— Found it difficult to comb her hair.
— Occasionally forgot to wash her hands after eating and using the toilet.
— Found turning the gas regulator confusing.

— Was good at tasks involving sorting, cleaning and folding.
— Was good at peeling and cutting vegetables but could not percieve when to stop.

N' Self Care by March 1994
— Now is able to comb her hair without help.

— ls careful about personal hygine, needs fewer reminders to wash hands.
— Has acquired the skill to use the gas regulator in Jan Madhyam‘but is finding it difficult to use it at home.

