आम'

/

‘ TH E UNTOLD
SABAVNA
Jehangir’s Sabavala’s bequest of his own and
collected works to The Museum in M urnbai is one of
the largest private donations ever made by an artist
|

By Gayatri Jayaraman

I

ne gentleman-like, towering
Jehangir Sabavala (1922201 1 ) wasnot one oflndia'sbest
loved Moderns. Throughout
his career, he stood apart from his
peers. Though he was a favourite of
the Tata clan of collectors, along with
B. Prabha, Sabavala and M.F Husain
shared a lifelong rivalry that bled into
the Progressive art circuit. In an inter—
view to Pritish Nandy, Husain, while
picking contemporary artist Ganesh
Pyne as one ofthe ﬁnest painters ofhis
time, picked Sabavala to head a list of
India’s worst painters.
It stemmed from how different
Sabavala’s work was. The women he
painted were preternaturally antithetical to the coarse, buxom, lustful women of K.H. Ara, FIN. Souza or
even the passion-lined lilting ﬁgures of
Husain. He broke them into dispassionate, almost sexless wedges, elevated in
time, space with a calming, rather than
an excitable colour palette. Where the
Progressives broke ground, Sabavala,
it was said, broke out the bone china.
He simply did not ﬁt into the movements of his time, yet, by no means
was he an artist you could ignore. His
‘Vespers I’, which broke records when
it sold for Rs 2.16 crore in the London
Bonhams auction in 2012, today
hangs in the private chamber ofYusuf
Hamied, chairman of Cipla. Prices of
Sabavala’s art work are up today, his
' Flight Into Egypt-1’ broke his previous
record at Rs 3 crore in a Saffronart sale
in late 2014, and a renewed interest in
this Indian cubist was noticed. There is
clearly more to be known of him than
the popular narrative suggests.

76

INDIATODAV ७

or;

SO , whenyouwalkinto the Jehangir
Nicholson Gallery of the Chhatrapati
Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya
or The Museum in Mumbai, where
curator Ranjit Hoskote, also his ofﬁcial
biographer, is unpacking the bequest
0fSabavala’s works, made by his family to the museum—the largest such
donation ofits kind by an artist to any
public institution in India—and you
see the graceful curves of a woman
playing a sitar in a K.K. Hebbar work.
It’s a part of Sabavala’s personal collection, a work so deeply different
from anything you would associate
with him, you understand that the artistpicked his inﬂuences carefully from
a composite they said he never had.
As they unpack his tools, knives, spatulas, brushes and a ﬁnicky handmade
palette crafted from ﬁbreglass so that
the colours wouldn’t run into each
other without his bidding, his meticulousness, which Anupam Sah, head of
conservation at The Museum, refers to
ashis obsessive neatness, comes to fore.

In the recreating ofhis erstwhile studio

SABAVALA'S
WOMEN WERE
I’ RETE RNATU RALLY
ANTITH ETICALTO
TH E I’ASSIONrLl N E D
LILTING FIGURES
OF ME HUSAl N.

at The Museum, the more to the man
than the clipped accent beneath his
moustache-ﬁltered whispers, unravels.
The ‘essay‘, as Hoskote prefers to
call this exhibit, is a ﬁve—fold biography
of the artist. It pulls the time parameter to judge him back to not just his
own preserved six student canvases,
portraits done at the JJ School of Art
between 1945 and 1947, but further
down to works inherited or bought by
him. A 17th century Lokeswara and
Safavid Isfahan frescoes by Sarkis
Katchadourian. a work by Japanese
artist Kunisada Utagawa and by M. M.
Kaye. author of The Far Pavilions.

