Photographs by MA N DA R D EOD H A R

Filmmaker Arun Khopkar, who
made the only movie on Sabavala’s life,
Colours ofAbsenoe in 1993, calls him a
much misunderstood artist. He knew
the Upanishads, he made copious
notes of light and hue and its impact
on the tones of nature, and of course,

his love of beautiful things, of clothes
and well-manicured ﬁngers. Hoskote
says he returned to India from Europe
to be a part of the post-Independence movements of the country, and

although portrayed as being overtly
European, knew the country, rural
India, the farm at Gholwad, where he
often escaped on weekends, more intimately than most. “His older works,
so meticulously preserved by him, also
indicate that he was subconsciously deeply inﬂuenced by his time and
learning in India.” He was affected by

the criticism, open to self—evaluation,
halting mid-career to be influenced
by the works of German expressionist and caricaturist Lyonel Feininger,
which introduced a luminosity to his
tones. “There are painters you look at
and there are painters you live with.
Sabavala was the latter. Parts of his
work grew on you differently at differ—

ent times of the day,” Khopkar adds.
But Nandy believes history has a
way of using auction prices to re-evaluate mediocre painters into those of
value. “The values of painters are no
longer determined by the excellence
of their work but by the ingenuity of
their galleries,” he says.
Be that as it may, economy deciding which artists gets lifted from the
annals of obscurity—The Museum is
in fact dusting out works of Sabavala

from its reserve collection which have
not been seen in 30 years—the trajectory drawn on the walls ofthe Jehangir
Nicholson Gallery, from childhood to
his last six works, the last of which
is detailed in his by then cancer-ridden hand with ‘pink‘ and ‘brown‘
in the unfinished spaces, narrate a
spellbinding story of a gentle growth
and a conscious movement towards
a specific style. It was as if Sabavala.
who consciously annotated his works
and spoke often of the legacy of the
bequest, planning its minutest detail

well in advance of his passing, wanted
to tell the story himself.
The artist's narrative is only told
comprehensively in hindsight. l’roni
behind his bequest, the quiet—tln'ough—
out-his—litetime Sabavala now speaks.
Follow the writeron IWittet ta“:3yatri_J

OCTOBER '३ 3स्महँदृ O I‘VL‘ \ -

