Anton Chekhov
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov was born in January 1860, in Taganrog, in
Southern Russia, which he described as "absolute Asia". He spent much
of his childhood working in his father's grocery store, which by 1876 was

declared bankrupt as a result of unwise investments and the decline of
Taganrog as an economic centre for the region.

The family sold their home and moved to Moscow, leaving Anton to complete his studies at the local Gymnasium for three years, while supporting himself by tutoring. This time was important in the development of
Chekhov's personality: living by his wits taught him independence, responsibility and a contempt for pettiness and meanness.
In 1879, Chekhov arrived in Moscow to enter medical school at the University on a scholarship. His father was by now incapable of running his
family's affairs, and Anton assumed that role. He supported them by

selling short pieces of writing under the pseudonym of Chekonte, contributing hundreds of anecodotes, sketches, dramatic scenes, stories and

articles to humorous magazines in Moscow and St Petersburg.

Five years later, he received his medical degree and began to practice.
However, he continued to write in order to support his family. From 1883
to 1886, he wrote more than three hundred pieces for Nikolai Leykin, the
owner of the journal Fragments, including Fragments from Moscow Life,
a series of acutely observed studies attacking many aspects of city living.
Chekhov was displaying a rapidly maturing talent, and in the stories he
contributed to the Petersburg Gazette, a growing conviction that the
pathos of life was to be found in everyday existence.

Although he had written the melodrama Platonov as a student, Chekhov
did not return to playwriting until 1884 with a one-act 'dramatic study'
called On the Highroad, adapted from one of his own short stories.

His ﬁrst major piece, Ivanov, was produced at the Korsh Theatre, Mos-

cow, 1n November 1887. It was followed by a series of popular one—act
plays. His first attempt at a lyrical play, The Wood Demon, proved a
critical failure and Chekhov abandoned playwriting for short storie
s
agaln.

V V‘

