Dissatisfaction with his life led Chekhov to travel across Siberia in 1890
to Sakhalin Island, a notorious penal colony, to take a census. The task
of interviewing 160 prisoners a day under harsh conditions, seriously
affected his already poor health. It also led to a book based on these
experiences which was published three years later and was responsible
for a number of prison reforms.
A move to a farming estate at Melikhovo near Moscow did not provide
the haven Chekhov hoped for. He soon became involved in treating a
cholera epidemic amongst famine-ridden local peasantry. The benevolent local doctor developed tuberculosis and was forced into recuperation
३ in Yalta in 1894. During this time he wrote The Seagull, but the initial
reception for the play was poor and the disillusioned Chekhov again returned to writing short stories. His health continued to decline, and following the death of his father, Chekhov sold his estate and moved with
his mother and sister to the milder climate of Yalta in 1899.
The formation of the Moscow Art Theatre by his friend Vladimir
Nemirovich-Danchenko and Konstantin Stanislavsky led to the most
important association of Chekhov's ﬁnal years. The Seagull was revived
in Moscow in 1898 and during rehearsals Chekhov met his future wife,
the actress Olga Knipper, who was playing Madam Arkadina. The play
was a resounding success this time, as was Uncle Vanya the following
year.

Chekhov's insistence that his wife continued her career and remained in
Moscow during the theatre season while he remained in the south, meant
that they only spent their summers together. It suited his temperament
and perhaps created a deeper bond between them. Although he felt himself separated from the intellectual life of Moscow, his friendship with
fellow Crimean exiles Gorky and Tolstoy provided some compensation.

The Moscow Art Theatre produced Three Sisters in 1901, but Chekhov
was increasingly weak and the enormous effort to complete The Cherry
Orchard and his desire to attend rehearsals against medical advice,
brought about a complete collapse in the winter of 1903-4. Later that
year, as his illness progressed, his wife took him to the health resort of
Badenweiler in Southern Germany. He did not recuperate. Chekhov died
there from a heart attack in July, at the age of forty-four.

V V‘
तु Proscenium Programmes 1995

