Indian Council for Cultural Relations
Founded in 1950 with the objective of promoting international understanding

among nations through cultural exchange, the Indian Council for Cultural
Relations is the outcome of the global vision of India's first Prime Mlnister
Jawaharlal Nehru and the firm beliefin the enlightening and humanising role
of culture of India's ﬁrst Education Minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad who

maintained - "politically, the world may be divided into rival camps. There
may be a clash ofideologies on the plane ofmaterial interest but in the world of
the spirit, in the creations of art, philosophy, literature and other values,
mankind is one...".
The Indian Council for Cultural Relations is an autonomous body under the

administrative control ofthe Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.
The President ofthe Council is appointed by the President of India. Its Governing
Body and General Assembly has members of Parliament, University ViceChancellors and eminent cultural personalities on it. The Council has its
headquarters in Azad Bhavan, I.P. Estate, New Delhi and eight regional ofﬁces

in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Chandigarh
and Thiruvananthapuram besides cultural centres abroad situated in Cairo,
Berlin, Georgetown, Jakarta, Port Luis, Moscow, London, Tashkent, Almaty,
Durban and Johannesburg.
The activities of the Council are directed towards enhancing an appreciation of

India's multifaceted personality, not only as a pluralistic secular democracy
but also as a vibrant economy. It aims to participate in the formulation and

implementation ofpolicies and programmes relating to India's external cultural
relations.

The major activities of the Council include administration of over 1700
scholarships under different schemes every year for overseas students on behalf
of the Government of India; exchange of scholars, academics, opinion-makers,

artistes, writers etc. ; exchange of exhibitions, organisation of and participation
in seminars and symposia; exchange of performing art groups; establishing
and maintaining chairs and professorships for India Studies abroad;

presentation of books and art objects etc.

The Council's Library and Reading Room at Azad Bhavan provide an ideal
place for study and research on art and culture. Documentation and compilation
of bibliographies is one of the functions of the Library. Through the publications
programmes, the Council publishes cultural quarterlies in English (Indian
Horizons), French (Recontre Avec L'Inde), Arabic (Thagafat-ul-Hind), Spanish

(Papeles de la India) and Hindi (Gagananchal) besides a political and economic
quarterly on African affairs called Africa Quarterly. The Council also undertakes
publication of books on art, literature, poetry, international relations etc. in
English as well as in other principal foreign languages.

The Maulana- Azad Memorial Lecture has become an established part of the
Councﬂ s act1V1t1es and very eminent persons have been invited to India
to give
lectures. Similarly, the Council is the Secretariat for the Jawaharlal Nehru

Award for International Understanding.

