Sun. 6th Feb.

R. SU B HASH R EE
CARNA TIC VOILIN
R. Subhashree, is a student of Nadha
Brahma Vidhyalayam and has been a disciple
of Guru "Sangeetha Bhushanam" (Late) Shri
V. Janakiraman, the renowned violinist and
distinguished teacher.

She has been con-

ferred with the title of "Nadha Brahma Kala
Bhushanam" by the Vidhyalayam. She learnt
carnatic music under him for 8 years.
R.Subhashree has been giving voilin
solo concerts as an accompanying vocalist
on various occassions in the capital. She is
also a regular artists of "Yuva Vani", All India
Radio.
She is presently a final year student
of B.Sc. (Hons) Physics at ARSD College,
New Delhi.
Sahitya Kala Parishad offers her its
stage in 9t h Yuva Mahotsava to enable her to
unfold her skill in violin playing.

4. ;... z; .._._-

'

l

S .. MAJ A N 'l "में फ्रं
CARNA TIC VOCAL
V . T. S U N l L
CAHNA TIC VOCAL
Started learning music at the age of
18. There is no particular person as Guru.
Got BA. degree in Carnatic Music from Calicut
Unicersity, Kerala (1986-1989). Passed M.A.
(Carnatic Music) frcrn Delhi University (1990-

1992). Completed M. Phil. (Carnatic Music)
from Delhi University (1993). While doing
B .A. degree, the Calicut University Choir Team
and participated and won prizes in University,
zonal and state level competitions. Performed
many stage programmes and also in All India

Radio (AIR).

Presently working as a Music

Teacher in New Era Public School, Mayapuri,
New Delhi.
He has the benefit today of showing
his talents from the Sahitya Kala Parishad
rostrum in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava.

A student of B .Corn. (Hons), final year,
Jesus and Mary College, S. Rajani is under
the tutelege of the renowned Guru and
Vidhwan
Shri
Madhirirnangalarn
Rarnachandran for the past nine years, from

whom she started her training in the field of
Carnatic Music.
Rajani is one of the talented and upcoming artistes, who have been the recipients of the C.C.R.T. scholarship form 1987 to
1993. She has participated in various music
competitions at the University level and has
won several prizes.
Rajani has given several public performances in Delhi and is regularly broadcasting classical music frorn the "Yuva Vani"
section of the All India Radio.
Sahitya Kala Parishad is pleased to
give her the benefit of its rostrum in the 9th
Yuva Mahotsava this evening.

