Tues. 8th Feb.

BHOLA NATH MISH RA
HINDUSTANI VOCAL
Shri Bhola Nath M ishra was born on
17th January 1967, in Azarngarh (U.P.). He
received his preliminary training in music
from his father Pt. Rakhal Mishra, and
Brother Pt. Dina Nath Mishra. He obtained
a good mastery over the style and system of
Music of Banaras and Patiala Gharanas in
Khayal and Thurnri.
Prayag Sangeet Samiti Allahabad
has honoured him with the first division in
'Sangeet Praveen' (M.Mus.) and 'Silver
Medalist' in India and 'Gold Medalist' from
B.S.P. (W.B.) 'Sangeet Ratna' award. He
also got 'Surmoni' award from Bombay.
He participated in Sunday night concert in All India Radio 1992-93. Presently
he is a staff artist of All India Radio, New

B I M A L K U M A R B H ATTA C H A R YA

Del hi.

TA B L A

He takes the benefit of the Sahitya
Kala Parishad rostrum in the 9th Yuva
Mahotsava this evening for giving his perforrna nces.

Born in Calcutta Shri Birnal Kurnar
Bhattacharya started his lessons in Tabla at
the tender age of nine. He has been learning from his Guru Shri Tapan Kurnar
Banerjee, the disciple of Pt. Shankar Ghosh,
the Maestro of Farukhabad Gharana. His
first public performance on Tabla before
discerning audience was during the International children's year. He stood second in
the national competition, 4994, organised

Ved
Gandharva
Maharishi
by
Viswavidyapeeth. He is also attached to
A. | . R. as casual artist. Apart front this, he
did his post-graduation from Indian Agricultural Research Institute (Pusa), New Delhi.
At present he is pursuing his research work
at the same Institute in the field of Agricultural Physics.
Sahitya Kala Parishad is pleased to
offer him its platform in the 9th Yuva
Mahotsava for showing his skills in tabla
p |ay i n g .

H A R I S H T I WA R I
HINDUSTA NI V0 CA L
Harish Tiwari, a talented vocalist,

had his initial training under Shree Thakur
ChObey Devoriya and Ajit Bhattacharya,
Nandanji of Varanasi.

Later, he became

disciple of Padma Bhushan Pt. Bhimsen
Joshi. Tiwari had shown his musical talents
at a very early age. He has given many a
successful performances all over the country. He holds these degrees in music :
Music Diploma from B.H.U. (Ist Division,
1984), Bachelor of Music from B.H.U. (Ist
Division, 1987) and Sangeet Alankar from
Gandharava Mahavidyalya Mandal Bombay
(Ist Division, 1992).
He takes the Sahitya Kala Parishad
rostrum today in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava
for giving his vocal performances.

