[ThuﬁBEﬁﬁB]
D E VA N A N D P A R I H A R ,
KA THA K
Hailing from a family of Kathak dancers of Jaipur Gharana, Shri Parihar has his
first baptisement in dancing under his father
late Pt. Bhim Raj Parihar in Bombay. Moved
to Delhi in 1987 for advanced training in the
Kathak Kendra from Guru Rajendra Gangani.
He has the credit of performing at
Kalka Bindadin Jayanti,Yuva Mahotsava,
Bhuvaneshwar, Kal Ke Kalakar, Swami Hari

m": ५ , r
./

B H u M l 1KE SWA R l N G H
C HHA U

Bhumikeshwar Singh, born on 2nd

Das Sarnrnelan.
Parihar has performed in Pt. Rajendra
Gangani's Choreographics.
Winner of many awards and scholarships, Shri Parihar performs this evening in
the 9th Yuva Mahotsava organised by Sahitya
Kala Parishad.

S . R AJ E’N D R A
KA THA KALI
Born on 22nd May 1961 at Evoor,

July 1969 at Gorakhpur (U.P.), graduated

Kerala State.

from Csrnania University Hyderabad, received

A Teacher cum Artiste Dancer of International Centre for Kathakali, New Delhi.

a diploma in acting from Shri Ram Centre for
performing arts in 1991 and training in
Seraaikella Chhau Dance on a scholarship
from Sahitya Kala Parishad on 1991-92, at

’

Preliminary training under Guru Evoor
Haripad
and
Nari
Pararneshwaran
Ramakrishna Pillay, from 1969 to 1976.

Government Chhau Dance Centre, Seraikalla

Joined R.L.V. College of Music and

and Acharya Chhau Nritya Bichita (Trivani
Kala Sangam) New Delhi, under the tutelage
of various gurus like Guru Linga Raj Acharya,
Shashedhar Acharya and Shri Krishna Nayak
(Martial Arts).
Performed Seraikella Chhau dance
for the Republic Day parade in the presence
of the President of India and other political
figures on 26th January 1992 at India Gate
and Rasht rapati B havan; also at Vasant Ut'sav
1 993 at Triveni Chamber Theatre, New Delhi.
Presently receiving specialization in
Seraikella Chhau, Pakhawaj playing and other
forms of dance in order to take up dance as a
full time career and profession.
He takes the Sahitya Kala Parishad

Institute of Fine Arts, Tripunithura, Kerala in

stage in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava this evening
for giving his dance numbers.

1978. Undergone 6 years Dlpiorna Course
and 2 year's Post Diploma Course under
Guru Kalamandalam Rajan, and valuable
guidance under veteran Guru Padamshree
Kalarnandalarn Krishnan Nair. Passed out
from the Institute in 1986.
Performed many programmes at different places in Kerala with different troupes
from 1986-1989.
Joined the international Centre for
Kathakali, New Delhi as a teacher-cum-artiste in 1989. Since then participated in all
the programmes of the Centre in Delhi and
neighbouring states, at times with eminent
Kathakali Gurus from Kerala.
He performs today under Sahitya Kala
Parishad banner in the 9.th Yuva Mahotsava.

