Fri. 11th Feb.

RA D H l KA G A N J U
BHARA TNA TYAM

RASHMI RANJAN JENA

Radhika Ganju, a student of Interior
Design did her schooling from Modern School,
Barakhamba Road, New Delhi and her
undergraduation in English literature from
Hindu College, Delhi University.
She is a disciple of Srnt. S. Kanaka
and performed her Arangetrarn in December
1993.
This young danseuse takes the
Sahitya Kala Parishad rostrum in the 9th
Yuva Mahotsava this evening to show her
skill.

ODISSI

Rashrni Ranjan Jena exudes the virtuosity in dance far exceeding his years. G lfted with
a balanced body and an innate sense of laya,
Rashrni has the making of a born dancer. Under
the guidance of his well-renowned father, Guru
Rarnani Ranjan Jena, Rashrni was initiated into
the study of Odissi and Kathak at the age of five.
When he was barely nine years old,
Rash mi performed at the An gahar Dance Festival
and 'Stole the Hearts' of the audience.
In 1985, Rashrni gave performances at
the Ghunthroo Young Dancers' Festival organized by stad Allaudin Khan Sangeet Natak
Academy of Bhopal. He also performed underthe
aegis of the Young Dancers' Festival in
BHubaneshwar, Orissa Sangeet Natak Academy, Indian Council for Cultural Relations & recently under Kamala Kala Pitha in New Delhi.
Besides being a performer, he is also a
budding teacher and often assists his father in
teaching.
Presently, Rash mi has been awarded the
Central Government Scholarship for Odissi Dance
and is continuing his training under his father at
Trivaeni Kala Sangarn in Delhi. Besides Odissi,

Rashrni is also a good student of Kathak and is
learning under Shri Rajendra Gangani at the
Kathak Kendra.
Rashmi's diligence and talent display a
promise that he will carry the legacy of this
traditional art form in the years to come.
Sahitya Kala Parishad is pleased in presenting him from its platform in the 9th Yuva
Mahotsava.

P RAGAT| S0 0 D
KA THA K
Pragati Sood is a honours Graduate
in Sociology from the Delhi University. She
has been learning Kathak in Kathak Kendra,
New Delhi since eleven years under the able
guidance of Srnt. Reba Vidyarthi, Shri Birju
Maharaj and Srnt. Vashwati Mishra. She has
been a recipient of merit scholarship throughout in Kathak. Pragati has performed all over
the country and has a number of prizes and
awards to her credit. Apart from being a
budding Kathak Dancer, she is also a dedi—
cated Bharatnatyam Dancer and having received a scholarship from the centre for Cultural Resources and Training till 1 991 . Pragati
is also a part-time lecturer in Bharatnatyam in
Ganesh Natyalaya.
At Present she is assisting Smt. Saroja
Vaidyanathan in the compilation of an
"Encyclopaedia on Bharatnatyam" to be published by the NCERT.
This evening in the 9th Yuva
Mahotsava she gives her dance numbers
before Delhi's connoisseures.

