Mon. 14th Fa).

P R A M O D K U M A R P RA SA N N A
FL U TE

Born in the family of musicians
Prarnod Kurnar Prasanna got preliminary
education from his father Pt. Shri Vishnu
Prasanna. He has also been learning music
from Guru Pt. Raghunath Prasanna. These
days his elder brothers Pt. Rajendra
Prasanna, Ravi Shankar Prasanna & Vinod
Kurnar Prasanna are his Guides. Prarnod
Kurnar Prasanna has performed in Youth
Samrnelans in a number of cities. He has
also presented "Basuri Vadan" in Swami
Hari Das Sarnrnelan.
This evening he performs under the
banner of the Sahitya Kala Parishad in the
9th Yuva Mahotsava.

S H A N T I B A L A DEVI
HINDUSTANI VOCAL

TA R U N KRISHNA D A S
DHHUPAD
Born in a musical family, young talented Tarun Krishna Das is among rising
Dhrupadists of our country. Tarun received
his training in Dhrupad from renowned
Dhrupad Maestro Pt. Vidur Malik at a very
young age. Later Tarun learnt from his
elder brother Shri Radha Govinda Das (A. | . R.
Staff Artist). Tarun has received high ap-

preciation from the press, public and music
critics. Tarun Krishna Das is also a Radio
Artist in Mathura and Surrnani. He has
already performed from different stages all
)ver India.
This evening he takes the Sahitya
<ala Parishad stage in the 9th Yuva
Mahotsava for presenting his Dhru'pad singmg.

Born in Manipur, Shantibala Devi
got her inspiration in Music from her father
Shri Mani Slngh, who is an empldyee of
Song & Drama Division, Manipur.
In 1984 she came to Delhi as a
dance artist (Manipuri Dance) in Triveni
Kala Sangarn under Guru R.K. Slnghjit
Singh. In that very year she joined the
Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, New Delhi and
started learning Hindustani Classical Vocal
Music under Pt. Vinaya Chandra Maudgalya
and Sh. Mahadev Deshpande. In 1991 she
completed her Sangeet Visharad from the
Akhil Bharatiya Gandharva Mahavidyalaya
Mandal, Bombay where she received First
Division. Thereafter in 1993 she completed
her Sangeet Alankar course under the guidance of the Principal, Pt. Vinaya Chandra
Maudgalya and Pt. Jagdish Mohan at the
Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, New Delhi.
This evening she performs from the

Sahitya Kala Parishad rostrum
Yuva Mahotsava.

in its 9th

