Wed. 16th Feb.

S U P R I YA G AN G A D H A R A N
BHARA TNA TYAM

है
.
हुँ
हैं .
D
हैं

Supriya Gangadharan has been a
student of Natyakalalayarn, learning Bharata
Natyarn under the eminent tutelage of
Kalairnarnani
Guru
Shri
K.N.

है

3-

हहैैं
:t

Dakshinamoorty since the age of eight years.
With her keen interest in dance,
Supriya has participated in various dance
programmes and cultural functions in her
school. She won a gold medal in 1985 for
being one of the best of young dancers.
She had her Arangetram in August
1992 and since then has performed under
aegis of Ayappa Sewa Samiti, Shivali Cultural Society, Nrityodaya and in all the func-

D E E P l KA B O S E
QDISSI
Since childhood Km. Deepika Bose
has been drawn to the arts of dance &
music. She had her early initiation in dance
through her mother Mrs. Papia Bose, a

Kathak dancer.
She learnt her first lessons in dance
from Guru Valmiki Banerjee, from whom
she learnt different forms of dances like
Bharatanatyarn, Mohiniattarn, Manipuri &
folk forms of different regions & Ballet teach-

ings.
A P.G. (Eng.) Student of Delhi University, she dedicated herself to Odissi
dance for the last 16 years under the guidance of late Guru Srinath Raut, the noted
exponent of Odissi dance. After his untimely death, she started her course from

Guru Patitapaban Raut.
She has given innumerable performances in renowned auditoriurns, conferences, Seminars & public programmes of
Delhi including her performance in Republic
Day parade-1991.

Besides performing at

Lucknow, Jaipur and Calcutta she has won
many prizes in competitions.
This evening the Sahitya Kala
Parishad has offered her to perform from its
ostrurn in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava.

tions of Natyakalalayarn, Dakshina Bharata

Natee Nata Sarnakaya, the latest one being
the one arranged last month to pay homage
to the great dance guru and composer late
Padrnashri K.N. Dandayudhapani Pillai. Her
performance has been greatly appreciated.
She is presently a student of llnd
year 8.80. (Hons.) in Shri Venkateswara
College.
She takes the Sahitya Kala Parishad
platform this evening to perform in the 9th
Yuva Mahotsava.

P A R WA T t D U T T
KA THAK

A graduate in Mathematics, Parwati
was initially trained under Late Shri Surendra
Rathore of Jaipur Gharaha and late Pt. Kartik
Ram of Raigarh Gharana at Bhopal. Since
5 years, Parwati is specialising under Guru
Murma Lat Shukla at Kathak Kendra, New
Delhi, Parwati was conferred the title of
Kala Ratna, from Trimurti Lalit Kala Parishad,
Bhopal and Shringar Mani from Sur Singar
Samsad, Bombay. She gave solo performances in Kala Milan, New Delhi; Kat-Ke-

Katakar, Swami Haridas Sammelan,
Bombay, Ghungroo Samaroh, Bhopal; Yuva
Sangeet N itya Mahotsava, Uijain and Aloka.
Besides, she has danced in choreographies
of Pt. Birju Maharaj and Guru Munna Lat
Shukla and toured all over lndia. Last year,
she had been to Kenya, Zambia, South

Africa, Namibia and other South African
Countries for dance programmes arranged
by the lCCR. Par‘wati herself has recently
c oreographed a short item named "Sfuran"
based on the theme of women's liberation
which was telecast by Bhopal Doordarshan.
Blessed with imagination and creativity,
Parwati has always been innocative in her
performances which is a beautiful hlending
ot the Jaipur, Lucknow and Raigarh
Gharanas. Parwati is also learning Odissi
from Padmashree Madhavi Mudgal and has
performed in many Indian cities as part of
her troupe.
This oung danseuse takes the
Sahitya Kala arishad stage to present her
dance numbers in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava.

