| Fri—.755??? |
S 0 M N AT H B I S WA S

GANGA VA TARAN
Mr. Sornnath Biswas, s/o Shree
Shantimoy Biswas graduated from Rabindra
BHarati University, Calcutta (West Bengal),

PRIY DARSHAN PATHAK
"HO/H (वृंदहगान)

Priya Darshan Pathak is a young
भानु promising Music Composer with equal
unmand over Classical, Light, Folk and
xxperimental Music.
With a varied background of Master
« Sociology and Bachaler in education
'-3.Ed.) he earned the Sangeet Prabakar
om Prayag Sangeet Sarniti Allahabad.
Amongst appreciable record of musical accomplishments to his credit are : awards of
college Blue for his ourstanding activities in
the field of music; Music director of the
ballet 'Jeevan Chakra' an entry for " Festival
Internationale De La Mer" held in Mauritius;
award in the Namytest, New Delhi; East
Zone Youth Festival, Dhavbad; Bihar Youth
Festival, Ranchi; Spring Festival, Guwahati
and Udeesha Festival, Allahabad.

His yearning for creative expressions
drew him to theatre. Consequently he has
composed the background music, songs

besides providing music direction for over a
dozen plays both Hindi and Bhojpuri, of
national and international repute.
He has also composed music for a
couple of Documentaries and various songs
for Doordarshan.
He has also been
asuociated a few music Directors in Bhojpuri
films.
This evening Priya Darshan Pathak
takes the stage in the 9th Yuva Mahotsava
for the exhibition of his talents.

having dance Hons. He did his Master's
Degree in Dance from the same university,
with Kathak as a special subject.
He has learnt : Odissi from Guru
Murlidhar Majhi; Bharat Natyam, Kathakali
and Manipuri from Rabindra Bharati University; Kathak from Guru Munna Lal Shukla at
Kathak Kendra, New Delhi and from Guru
Ram Mohan Maharaj at Shree Ram
Bharatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi; Chhau
Dance from Guru Alak Niranjan Bisoi at Shri
Ram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi;

Trained by West Bengal Dance workshop
conducted by Smt. Arnla Shankar (wife of
renowned Uday Shankar) and Srnt. Manju
Shree Chaakee Sarkar; At present learning
Chhau Dance at Trivani Kala Kendra, New
Delhi from Guru Shashi Acharya; worked for
8 consecutive years with Anand Shankar
Ballet Troupe as a Senior Modern Creative
Dancer; Performed at all the metro cities of
India several times; Represented Govt. of
India on behalf of the Anand Shankar Ballet
Troupe in festival of l ndia closing ceremony,
Moscow USSR; also gave performances in
world Railway Games of Indira Ghandhi
Stadium, New Delhi and South Asian Federation Games at Salt Lake Stadium,
Calcutta; Performed at 'Festival of USSR'
closing ceremOny, at Indira Gandhi Stadium, New Delhi; A regular performer on
Television with great personalities like Srnt.
Shobhana Narayan, renowned Kathak

Dancer. Also choreographed a Ballet 'Manav
Kanya' based on Tagor Songs for Delhi
Doordarshan; Associated with renowned

public schools of New Delhi like Doon Public
School, Ryan International School etc.;

Presently working as the senior Dance

Teacher with the prestigious 'Bal Bharati
Public School‘, where he has choreographed
Achhut Kanya, Ashok Kalinga War, Through
ages of Rythrn and Sita Swyarnbar; also
adjuged the Best Dance Teacher for the
year 1992-93 by Lions Club, New Delhi.
This evening he presnts the ballet
Gangavataran, choreographed by him, under the Banner of "Sahitya Kala Parishad."
on the occassion of 9th Yuva Mahotsava.

