'I‘RIPURARI SHARMA
' v Graduate from National School of Drama (1976-79). Young Writer,
Director and dedicated theatre person. Well known playwright of ‘Kath

Ki Gadi’, ‘Bahu’, ‘Aks Paheli’, ‘Reshmi Roomal’, ‘Vikramaditya Ka
Nyaya Asan’, ‘Birsa Munda’, ‘Baanjh Ghati’. Uses contemporary events
to highlight and! bring to surface underlying universal concerns. Involved
with various women, youth and tribal groups. Worked on collective
evolving of plays, street plays and folk forms. Conducted several
workshops in this context all over the country, in Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka. Sanskriti Award in 1986 for contribution as a playwright.
Recently invited as the Indian Representative at the First International
Conference of Women Playwrights being organised by the State

University of New York. Undertaken a project of the Dept. of
Education (Ministry of Human Resource Development) in ‘Innovative
Theatre and Education’.

'I‘ripurari Sharma’s play SAZA is the outcome of the Third Playwright’s
Workshop being conducted by Shri Ram Centre.

We are grateful to Ford Foundation for their support for the workshop.

DRAMATIST’S VIEWS
SAZA—It is a simple story—more or less like the contours of the

V landscape of Bengal, echoing with the sweetness of the elusive breeze and

the turbulence and violence of a river in ﬂood. Two brothers and their
'wives bear the predicament of their existence in this gloomy house. One
brother kills his wife—the other puts the blame on his spouse. That is all.
» And yet it touches a very subtle note in our psyche. Why is the bond
between the brothers so deep that the wives essentially remain outsiders?
And yet, once the wives are no longer there, the house and their own
relationship changes. The ﬁnal question which Tagore puts to us is—

'

ultirnately whose punishment is it? Those who are victims and knowingly
or unknowingly face death or those who manage to evade death—and
continue to live on with the added burden of guilt?

The gloom of their home lacks music—which is so essential to keep pace
with life. They suﬂ'er but a detached view like Ram Lochan’s makes light
of it. That too seems necessary, lest emotions become a form of
indulgence.

_

