Acknowledgement :

Anil Chaudhary, Ankan Printing Press, Ateek Ahmed, Avdhesh Kurnar
Shanna, Karuna Shanna, Carvan Theatre Group, Deepak Bhattacharya,
Dhirendra Chamol i , Durga Kukreti, Gajendra Verma, Gyan Prakash Gupta,
Kiran Goyal Ulfat, Namrata, Nanhi Dunya School, Ramesh Dobariyal, Ram
Prasad Anuj, Sadhna Ulfat, Sudha Ulfat, Saathi Theatre Group, Uttar
Chachra.
Cast :

Meenakshi Ghosh

:

Sushma Bahuguna

Anil Bhandari

:

Arvind Pandey

Music Director :

Stephan c. Rasch

Light Design : Ganesh Madhwal

Assistants

Ian G. Rasch

Coustume

: Sushrna Bahuguna

Lael Rasch

Stage Mg.

: Mairaj Ahmed

:

Music Arranger :

Du rga Kukreti

Properties

: Sujata Paul

Brochure I

: Avdhesh Kumar

Set DesignedProduced & Directed by
Arvind Panday

Method Acting :
The word “Method” in acting is very controversial among l ndian actors,
teachers and theoreticians, especially where its application is concerned. .
The word “Method Acting” as a noun was used by ‘Lee Strasberg &
Company’ in America; and was an addition and extension in ‘Stanislavsky
System’. Thus, Konstantin Stanislavsky is the pioneer of this school of acting
though he himself never used the word ‘Method’ for his teaching. He said,
‘It is a guideline for actors’. Thus the teachings of Stanislavsky became the
basis or guideline for Lee strasberg, also. He kept on adding and extending

Stainslavsky‘s teachings and evolved more teach niques for actors' problem
in expression which is known as “Method". However, ‘Method Acting’ should
not be misunderstood as a style. It provides certain techniques (which are
internal and not external.) These techniques aim for authenticity in acting:
and to move the actor’s soul and conscience while acting. Any genere of
acting becomes authentic through the ‘Method’ technique. it is a dynamic

process of evaluation with addition and extension of new ideas and
techniques. Unlike, other acting methodologies, where an actor get stuck
with a particular style of acting ‘Method’ provides Versatility in style. The

Actor becomes capable of meeting the requirements of the ever changing
global environment; and the general as well as specific needs of the
individual actors for facilitating expression of hidden individual talent is also
catered to. A method actor is capable of doing a wide range of roles from
realistic to non-realistic experimental theatre.

