an expert of folk theatre designs and crafts—
were associated with this experimental production.

This was a most satisfying experie-

nce for us, as also to the Nautanki artistes.

Later, in 1970, Shanta Gandhi, at that
time teaching at the National School of Dra-

ma, worked with a Nautanki group on the
popular Nautanki play 'Amar Singh Rathor’.
She introduced certain elements of modern

Bhagavad~Purana, legends of love and sacri-

ﬁce and I the traditional lore supplied rich
thematic material. The lyrics by the medieval poets of Brajbhasha and the great epic
poem Ramacharitamanas by Tulsidas, supplied textual material of great poetic quality.
This textual material has been further enri—
ched by the folk poets and versiﬁers who
have always maintained close link with the
theatre.

theatre, such as mime, movements and chore-

ography, to add a dynamic quality to the
otherwise static performance structure of
Nautanki. In 1976, The National School of

From the highly developed and processional Leela Plays—Ramaleela and Rasaleela—
to the plays of lighter variety such as Naqal

Drama presented ‘Laila Majanu’ with the students under the guidance of actor-singer

and Bhandaiti, there is an amazing variety of

Giriraj, assisted by Anil Chaudhary, a young
director with background in Nautanki.
This production by the students gave
them a unique opportunity in operatic singing, also a feeling for the theatrical music
and the dramatic use of music in theatre.
The play was presented in the traditional
style on an open-air stage, though introducing certain modern elements of theatrical
production, such as blocking and grouping of
characters and use of levels. This added a
new dimension to this traditional theatrical
form, and made it enjoyable for the urban
audiences. A most signiﬁcant creative utilization of Nautanki form has been the adapt-

ation of Gogol’s classic ‘Inspector General’

forms and presentational styles. In between
these two categories f'all operatic forms like
Nautanki also called ‘Saangeet’ alongwith the
other forms of the same genre such as Sw-

ang and Bhagat also of Uttar Pradesh, Maach of Madhya Pradesn, Khyal of Rajasthan

and Sang of Haryana.
These operatic f'orms, though evolved in
early 18th century, out of the Akharha tradition of singing and recitation of ballads and
narrative song-forms like Lawani, Khyal,
Lahachari, Kajari, Rasia and Turra-Kalangi

are related to similar minor dramatic forms
with predominant elements of music and
dance going back to the classical theatrical
tradition.

They also carry forward the ele-

ments of the medieval theatre of storyby Mudrarakshas and
Bansi Kaul in 1977.

its production by

The Hindi speaking region has an old
and rich tradition of folk and popular theatre

in a great range and variety of forms and
styles. This theatre has been greatly enriched by the cultural setting in which it grew
and ﬂourished. The two great epics, the
Ramayana and the Mahabharata, and the

telling and recitation of epics and ballads.
Natyashastra and other later treatises on dramatic art mention minor forms or the ‘uprupakas’, such as Natya Rasak and Sattak
with similar elements as Nautanki and other
forms of the same genre. The co-existencc
and close relationship of mutual exchanges
between the classical and folk traditions in
various arts specially drama, music and dan55 '

