ce, is a special feature of the Indian artistic
and cultural history; and these arts can be
understood properly only in their mutual
relationship of inter-dependence and inter—
inﬂuences.
A proper study of Nautanki as an operatic form can be made only by placing it in
a larger theatrical perspective and cultural
context, and see its sources and its link with

the audience about the events which are not
shown on the stage, and also summarises

past events. He also sometimes describes
the locale and makes comments, assuming
the role of the playwright. Thus, he plays a
vital role in organising the narrative and giving it a simple dramatic form. Some of his
common utterances in the plays indicate his
role as narrator and the device to organise
the narrative material :

many other earlier theatrical forms in the same
operatic tradition. This vast popular operatic theatrical tradition of the Hindi region
can be designated by the generic name of
Saangeet. This Saangeet tradition of operatic theatre has also links with the Leela
plays, Amanat’s Inder Sabha and the whole
tradition of Sabha plays of the nineteenth
century, and the tradition of Rahas.

अब आगे की दारुर्ता सुनिए खासी-आम ।
01'

यही: पर छोड़ यह किस्सा सूनो अब हाल आगे का ।
This simple dramatic structure of Nautanki is strengthened and sustained by its
simple stage and staging methods. Traditionally it is performed on an Open bare platform-stage and, therefore, the writers of the

Dramatic Structure :

Nautanki, as a dramatic form, has an
interesting structure. It falls midway between

dramatic poetry and the fully developed literary drama. Like many other f'olk theatrical forms prevalent all over the country,
Nautanki combines the elements of and has
evolved from the tradition of story-telling
and recitation—the two arts which form the
roots of Indian theatrical tradition. It also
represents in

many ways the

conventions

and practices of the medieval theatre. The
dramatic structure is rather simple, and episodic dramatisation of a narrative. The
story line is straight and the narrative unfolds with great ease and simplicity. It is
divided into small episodic units very much
like the Rasaleela plays. These units are connected by the narrator calleed ‘Ranga’. He
introduces the episodes and links them. He
also takes the characters from one episode [0
the other, and gives essential information to

56

Nautanki plays have full freedom in organising the narrative material. They are not
restricted in any way by the considerations

of the dramatic unities. The unlocalised,
neutral acting area is non-representational,
merely an arena for actors to recite and sing
a story. It is easily given the speciﬁcation
of a particular locale often by the description
incorporated in the dramatic dialogue itself,
or sometimes in the utterances of Ranga. It
is also because of the platform-stage that the
actors entrances and exits are very informal;

sometimes the actors remain present on the
platformstage all the time and by sitting

near the musicians suggest that they are no
more engaged in the action. At the appropriate time they get up to recite and sing their
lines and get engaged in the action.

Stage and Stage Conventions :

Tne platformstage of Nautanki marks
an interesting step in the development of the

