In most of the

folk forms of lighter variety, the performance
is held on the ground-level, audiences sitting

on all sides.

In forms like Naqal and Bhan-

daiti, the performance is held in the midst of
the audience, in the open air or under a shamiana, and the seating is so arranged that

passages and corriodors are created in the
midst of the audience for the presentation of
dramatic aetion. Also, in the course of the
performance, audiences keep moving and
shifting to accommodate the movement of
the performers.

The platform-stage vitally changes the
relationship of the performer to the spectator, and also affects the gestures and movements of the actor. The actor suddenly
becomes more imposing and his gestures and
movements broader.

The absence of scenery

further helps the actor to heighten his gestures and movements. Any scenic design or
an effort at realistic presentation of locale

will be totally against the spirit of this kind
of informal open air platform-stage. The
spectators partially loose proximity with the
actors, but have the advantage of seeing the
performance from various points, changing
positions during the course of the performance. This audience behaviour is very different from the audience of the proscenium
theatre bound to a frontal view of the
performance.
Often
the
performances
are held in
mofussil towns in bazar
streets, chaurahas, city chauk areas and
sarais; audiences sitting at ground level,
specially erected galleries, rooftops, balconies

and trees, with residential houses and shops
all round. A theatrical performance in such
an environmental setting is constantly affected

activity enters and influences the performance.
Thus in spatial conditions and conventions,
Nautanki has cultivated the values of environmental theatre.
Like all folk and traditional theatre, Nautanki is also an audience-conscious theatre.

The actor is fully conscious of his audience
and is primarily a performer who wants to
demonstrate his skills in recitation, singing
mime; and entertain his responsive and enth~
usiastic audience. He has the advantage
that the myths, legends and tales of romance
and valour that he is presenting to his audience are shared by them, and there is a greater possibility of a shared dramatic CXpCricnce.

The audience, in any case, are also

fully familiar with the text as the Nautanki
plays are also read and recited a great deal,
especially during the rainy season when there
is no opportunity to see the performances.
The audiences are also familiar with and
sensitive to the music of the Nautanki and
respond to it most enthusiastically.

One of the other interesting conventions
of this theatre is the delivery of dialogues.
Each line of the verse dialogues is recited and
sung by the actor-singer three times for the
beneﬁt of the audiences sitting on three sides

of the stage in three blocks. This most interesting convention for all these years, has
unfortunately now, been given up because of
the use of the printed curtains. or the audiences sitting only in front of the stage facing
the actors. Repetition of the dialogues hel-

ped the audiences become familiar with the
story and often with the entire text to enjoy
the music at a deeper level.

This convention
\l

performer to the spectators.

by the elements and factors front outside the
domain of the theatre. The performance
overflows in to the social area, and social

L".

acting area, and in the relationship of the

