of the delivery of dialogues also inﬂuenced
actors’ movements; he moved on the large

platform-stage going from one side to another
in dance-like movements. Also when the
Naqqara repeated the musical phrase, the
actors used to present a brief sequence of
dance. The actors’ dance movements follo-

wed and were accentuated by the beat of the
Naqqara .

Versiﬁed Dialogues :
The most insteresting element of the
Nautanki plays is their verse dialogues in a
variety of meters, enriching both the poetic
and musical content of the play. The Nautanki writers use Sanskrit, Hindi and Urdu
meters, and also create new metrical forms by

various combinations and permutations. There
are also dialogues based on popular and folk
tunes, and theatrical tunes of the 19th century
Parsi theatre, and also often based on popular ﬁlm tunes. Some of the metrical forms
used in Nautanki plays are: Bahertabil, Chaubola, Doha, Lawani, Thumri, Dadra, Sher,

Ghazal and Qawwali.
Chaubola is an old and basic metrical
form of Nautanki, and the entire Saangeet

theatrical tradition. In Musical rendering
it is aptly suited to the accompaniment of
Naqqara. It is capable of expressing various
moods and feelings by using appropriate
ragas. It is suitable both for describing scenes
and locales, and also for dramatic dialogues.

It has amazing musical variations and regional styles. Bahertabil is equally pOpular and
a most theatrical metrical form of Nautanki.
It is also aptly suited to Naqqara musi
c, and
has a recitative quality with great dramat
ic

effect.

Till ’305 Nautanki actor-singers used
to

present a brief dance pattern after singi
ng a
58

Chaubola as is the practice in many other
traditional theatre forms. The practice of
presenting brief dance after singing Chaubola
has been an integral part of the Saangeet tradition. Amanat’s Inder Sabha has stagedirections suggesting ways for the presentation
of dance sequences. By giving up the dance
sequences, Nautanki performance has become
ﬂat and static and lost much of its lustre.
Following examples of Chaubola and
Bahertabil will show the musical and theatrical potential of these song-forms :

(बहरतबौल-सांगौत शकुन्तला से )

आ गया, आ गया, आ गया, आ गया ।
आगया बस मैं कौशिक मुनी आ गया ।
कुल फिकर घट गयी, छा गया, छा गया,
मेरी तबियत पर र्चनों-अमन छा गया it
There are many dialogues in Lawani with
varied musical rendering. Lawani as a songform is prevalent over the whole of Hindi
speaking region, and several other regions
such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil

Nadu and Karnataka. It has greatly contributed to the origin and development of the
operatic theatre not only of the Saangeet tr
adition, but also similar operatic theat
re of
other regions. One such dialogue in La
wani
in Nautanki ‘Malkhan Samar’ will sh
ow its

theatrical quality :

सजी हुई दोनों अनार सेना,
लड़न के खातिर निकल रहीं है ।
इधर हैं मलखे, उधर हैं ताहर,

समर में शमशीर चमक रहीं है । ।
The following dialogue has the
quality
of dramatic recitation, and
its rhythmic
structure is very similar to th
at of the verse

dialogues of the play preval
ent in the Parsi

