theatre :

Music :

(सांगौत "वीरमती')
बीरमती---सुनियों बात मेरी चितधार,
आवे जब तक नहीं भरतार ।
५.

जाऊँ से न किसी के द्वारा
लीजिए मान, मान, मान ।।
Several dialogues in the Nautanki plays
are written in ‘tarze theatre’, theatrical tune,

following the dialogue pattern of the Parsi
theatre. In “Shakuntala” a dialogue between
Dushyant, Shakuntala and the Sahkis is in
theatrical tune :

इस चमन में आनेवाले, अजी erg ! वाह, वाह!
कहो कोन हो तुम ?
इंयन्त---भेंवरे को उडाने वाला, अजी वाह, वाह, वाह

दुष्यन्त हूँ मैं ।
It is not only in the Nautanki plays but
also in the plays of the literary tradition,
especially stage-Ramaleelas that many dialo—
gues were written in theatrical tune taking
inspiration from the Parsi theatre. The rhythm
of these dialogues is very close to the Spoken
language, and it is well synthesised with the
movements of the actors. The short phrase

units permit a great deal of rhythmic variety.
The repetition of the verbal units imparts a
dramatic quality both to the delivery and
physical action.
From the point of view of dramatic
quality, the dialogues in ‘derha tuki’ meter
are very effective as in the most popular Nautanki ’Siahposh’ :
५.

क्यों दाग लगाता है मियां खानदान म I
और अपनी शान में ।
मतलब के दोस्त, यार हैं इस जहान में,
हो किस गुमान में ।

Nautanki music has a great range and
variety; and while it draws from multiple
sources—classical, regional, folk and popular,
and urban theatre, it synthesises it into an
integrated whole, and acquires a special

character of Nautanki theatrical music.

It is

further enriched by the singing dialogues in
a variety of metrical forms. The classical
ragas like Bhairavi, Sarang, Asavari, Shyamkalyan, Kalangara, Bageshwari and Yaman
are used more frequently. The ragas are,
however, used in their popular mode, without
adhering to the pure form. Actor-singers
are not formally trained in classical music.
They have a feel for the raga and its mood.
If you ask an actor about the raga he is using
in a dialogue, he would say that his sung piece
has the Chhaya or Chhata of such and such
raga. Bhairavi is most commonly used for
Chaubola. Songs in some metrical form are
rendered in diﬂ'erent ragas to suit different
situations and moods. While Bhairavi is
uaed to express pathos and seperation, Yaman

is used to express the sentiment of love.
The opening prayer song called Mangalacharan, Sumirini or Vandana is sung in

Dhrupad style very much like the Dhrupad
style of the music of Rasalila of Vrindavan.
The music of Ras tradition has much greater
inﬂuence on the Nautanki music. Popular
song-form Rasia of Braj area is also used in
Nautanki, and often given a classical ﬂavour.

Lawani is also rendered in many ‘rangats’ or
musical styles. Nautanki music also has
regional stylistic variations, with two main
styles, namely Hatharasi and Kanpuri styles.
While Hatharasi style is musically more developed and permits embellishment, Kanpur style
is predominantly recitative.
59

