Mr. Chandra Shekhar Kambar, President

of the Karnataka Natak Akademy, which
cosponsered the festival with the Central
Akaderni, welcomed the audience.

He said

the present festival was a happy occasion as
it provided exchange of views between various regional groups on fusion of folk elements in modern theatre. Mr. Bhargava,
Assistant Secreatary (Drama) of the Central
Akademi thanked the guests and the audie-

it all he orders that Maangathan’s body be
thrown to wolves and foxes. Thus Thurkiran
poses as a rnercilers unyielding ruler whocan supresses resistance with an iron hand.
But inf’act all his emergent black laws are.
only the eruptions of “ths cist of fear".

Despite the royal commands against the
funeral

rites to Maangathan, Yamini, the

sister of Maangathan, and Angathan, wants
to do honour to the body of her brother and.

nCe.

seeks the help of Chowmini, another sister to

The inauguration function was followed
up with a play production of ‘Antigone‘
directed by M. Ramaswamy of Real Theatre
Movement. Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu.

B ul letin—-2

7 January, ’84

the dead brothers.

But Chowmini feels too

frightened to violate the Prohibitions of the
new ruler.

On the contaray, Yamini, alone-

and unaided performs the last rites. For
this she is arrested and tried for treason. In
the trial she argues that it was her moral
(personal) rites to do honour to her brother's

body.

Thurkiran’s son who has fallen in

love with Yamini in the mean time, pleads

(argues) with his father to realese (acquit)

‘THURKIRA AVALAM’

Yamini.

Real Theatre Movement

This results only in the breakdown

of their ﬁlial relationship.
In the country of Vindya, after the death
of the king, his sons Angathan and Maanga—
than fought with each other. Angathan
stands in favour of the government where as
his brother Maangathan identiﬁes himself
with the masses and leads a resistance move-

ment against Angathan. Consequently Maangathan is branded as an extremist (traiter

—an antinational element).

In a (civil) war

that ensues both the brothers are killed and
Thurkiran, their close relative assumes the
oﬂ‘ice of the king and arranges; for the traditional last rites usually accorded to a member
of the royal family. But he declares that
attempts to pay homage to Maangathan and
honour his body in any way will be considered treason. Even the show of sympathy

to him is to be considered trechery.
62

To t0p

The High Priest

of the court falls out with Thurkiran over

this issue. Thus Thurkiran ﬁnds himself
suddenly deserted and hated by everyone
around.

Yamini, placed under arrest, is tortured
and killed. lnfuriated by death of his lover‘

Venman rises against his father. But the
circumstances induce Venman to commit
suicide. Queen Sudarani dies of shock on
hearing about her son’s death. Death of his
relatives and desertion by his allies rendered
him mutterly lonely and alienated. He be-

comes an eternal victim of the pangs of his
own conscience. Thus despotism reaps shame.
self-pity, desolation out of the seeds of ab
used pourer and inhumanity.

