Bu 1 leti n—3

tistes.

The latter were used in the chorus.

8 January, ’84

He did not agree with the suggestion that

The ﬁrst seminar session was held at the
lounge of Ravindra Kalakshetra at 10 a. m.
on the 8 January, 1984.

f'olk artistes need not be drawn directly. He
stressed that they in turn became active
members of the modern theatre group where
they learn to delivery dialogues which was

not in their dancing tradition.

Mr. M. Ramaswamy, director of the
play; Mrs. Shenbhagam Ramaswamy, script
writer; Mr. Raju who designed the costumes
and sets; Mr. T. V. Gopinath, lighting designer were pressnt along with the members of
the performing group which included traditional folk artistes.
Mr. K. V. Subbanna, noted Kannada dramatist, moderated the discussion.

Mr. Ra-

Mr. Natarajan appreciated the choreography in the play, the use ofchorus but
was critical of the delivery of dialogues. He
felt they were not stylised and hence did not
ﬁt in with the rest of the play. He strongly
felt the dialogues should have been stylised.
Mr. B. V. Karanth wanted to know whether
the dialogues were colloquial or literary. Mrs.
Shenbhagam clariﬁed in the written form.

maswamy, explaining how be conceived the
play, said the tragedy of Antigone was adap-

ted into a tragedy of Creon, to depict the ultimate downfall of fascists caused by their own

actions. The tamil names for the characters
were drawn from ‘Abhitha Chinthamani’,
a Tamil lexicon of names. The chours in the

play and the ‘Kattiyankaran’ (suthradhara)
were inspired the folk forms of Therukoothu,
Thevaraattam and Oyilkummi. Therukoothu

was a folk theatre f'orm associated with temple
festivals. Theveraattam was a ritualistic dance
performed by a particular community ‘Kambalatthu Nayakkars’. Oyilkummi was a rural

community dance.

Mr. Attili Krishna Rao wanted to know
whether the members of the drama troupe
were trained by f'olk artistes or the latter
themselves were drawn into the group to perform the play. He said to get training from
folk artistes was desirable as that would f'acilitate easier reenactments of the play instead
of asking the folk artistes to come every time.
Mr. Ramaswamy said the group consisted of
both its orginal members as well as folk ar~

Mr. Gopalkrishnan (Tamilnadu) wanted
to know whether Mr. Ramaswamy was inspired to use folk elements in his search for a
medium or chose folk elements to be ﬁt into
the structure be already had found. This
question was a major issue of debate during the
discussion.

Mr. Prabir Guha, Mr. Krishna

Moorthi and Mr. K. N. Panikkar elaborated
on this point and wanted the director to clarify.
Mr. Ramaswamy said his group had
been interacting with f’olk artistes of themkoothu and theveraattam for the last four
years. He earlier saw a production of Antigone in Trichur. Even then he was not sure
whether he wanted to produce that script.
Later when the Sangeet Natak Akademi’s intimation about the South Zone Festival was
received, he toyed with two plays, the other
being ‘Nandan Kathai’. But he ﬁnally chose
Antigone since he felt that theme was in tune
with folk elements he wanted to make use of.
He denied a suggestion that he chose to em-

ploy folk elements merely to fulﬁll certain
63

