requirements. His interpretation of Antigone

folk elements, to the extent required by the

was also inﬂuenced by an incident in Tamilnadu. A social worker was killed by police
and the authorities relused to hand over the

theme of the play, he said.

body of the ‘extremist’ to his family and followers. In the chaos that ensured, police resor-

ted to ﬁring.

This, Ramaswamy felt, was

similar to Creon’s fascist actions in Antigone,

hence his choice of the play. The rituals
relating to burial of death body in Thevarattam were appropriate symbols to be fused
into this version of Antigone.
Mr. Rajagopal said except for the level
of acting, the entire production was good.

He appreciated the choreography and the
folk music. Mr. N. Muthuswarny (Tamilnadu)
shared this view and said the torture of the
princess has been successfully communicated
by using the therukoothu movement in Drau-

pathi Vasthrabaranam. The only defect in the
play was not stylising the delivery of dialo—
gues, which otherwise were crisp, according
to him.

Mr. Jnani Sankaran (Tamilnadu) felt
the script was weak, since it was slightly contrived to connote fascism.

This weakness,

which was fundamental led to the other weakness of choreography and dialogues contras—

ting eath other with two different styles that
did not fuse. The performance by the chorus
good but it was not properly utilised, he said.

Mr. Sriniwas was critical of the lighting
design. It was patchy and dark and actors
could not be seen most of the time. Mr.
Gopinath, lighting designer, clariﬁed that he
was handicapped by the measurements of the

auditorium. Even otherwise, his light design
was to provide only dull lighting to suit the
tragic mood of the play.

Mr. Karanth raised question about the
costume. Mr. Raju said he designed them to
provide a tribal look. Of the two princesses,
one had a strong mind and the other was
wavering. The former’s saree was chosen to
depict ﬁrmness and the latter’s saree with red
and white patches to show wavering attitude.

The King’s chestgear, was chosen from a
handicraft shop to provide a rustic look, he
said.
Mr. Subbanna, moderator posed, a question ﬁnally to the director, on whether or not
he could produce the play on the theme of
fascism without the help of folk elements
employed. Mr. Ramaswamy felt it could be

possible, but he was inSpired to use the folk
elements which he thought were naturally in
tune with his theme. With that the discussion on the ﬁrst day’s play came to and end.

Mr. K. C. Manavendra Nath (Kerala) shared
this view.

During the discussion, Mr. Pra-

sanna emphasised the need for focussing
attention on whether the production has
assismilated the folk elements it made use
of or not. He warned against looking f
or
folk elements in a modern play as they e
xisted in the folk theatre. This is not what
was
expected, but a fusion and an assismilat
ion of

64

ﬁlletin— 4

9 January, '84'

‘TOORPU REKHALU’
Natya Blzarati, Visak/zapamam
‘Toorpu Rekhalu’ (Dawn of th
e East),

portays the life of Girijans, the hilltribes of
Andhra Pradesh who suffered negl
ect and ex—

