f'olk form. In his play, he was not using the
folk form as it was. He introduced the folk
artiste as a revolutionary character in the
play. He wanted to avoid the folk form dominating the theme.

brought on stage just as a sheep was brought.

Symbols would become necessary. Even rape
and murder on a realistic style on stage cannot be attempted, he suggested.

Mr. Rarndas added to the lighter mo-

Mr. Kavalam Narayan Panikkar (Kerala)
wanted to know if the artf'orrn was a dying
one. Mr. Rao said the form was not dying
but was struggling to exist without proper
support.

Mr. K.V. Rajagopal (Karnataka) wanted
to know why the jamuku instrument used on
stage looked diiferent from the original. Mr.
Rao clariﬁed that various jamuku vadus used
different versions of the same instrument.
The economic conditions determined the actual metal of the instrument—copper 0r tin.

Mr. B. V. Karanth wondered whether
the kamukula katha was a folk narrative form
or f'olk theatre. Mr. Rao said the form was
a theatre form using music, dance and narrative. In his play, he was not aiming at showing the full f'olk f'orm lest that dominated
the theme. He used the folk artiste as the
messenger of the new message of awakening.
Mr. Natrajan and Mr. K. C. Manavendra Nath (Kerala) questioned the relevance

of folk form for Rao’s play. They felt the
play did not show reasons for the use of the
fo 1 k art.

The discussion at this point turned to
the fundamental question of using folk elements in modern theatre, the eifectiveness of

ments when

he

said in

Karnataka even

elephants were brought on stage. Mr. Karanth
clariﬁed that elephants were used only by mythological theatre and not realistic theatre.
Mr. Muthuswami pointed out that mere
repetitive expression of a problem tended to,
turn into a cliche though the basic problem
remained unsolved. Much has been expressed
about widow remarriage that it looked like

an old problem but the conditions of the
widows have not changed. Mr. Muthus-

swami emphasised that the need for new
approach to
ssary in this
pted to look
press it in
the ultimate
said.

the old problems became necelight. Krishna Rao’s play attemat the tribal exploitation and ex—
a worn-out form and this led to
shortcomings, Mr. Muthuswarni

On the use of realistic styles, Mr. Prabir
Guha (Bengal) traced the history of such
theatre since IPTA movement in ﬁfties. IPTA
did make use of some folk elements. Today,
the modern theatre using folk elements had
come a long way with the pioneering efforts
of Karanth, Habib Tanvir, Panikkar and
others and this had made the realistic style a
dead theartre, Mr. Guha said.

questions on the limitation of realistic forms.

The discussion again focussed on the
quality of the Telugu production. Mr. VayalarVasudeva Pillai (Kerala) felt the playwright dominated the play. The ideas remained untransformed into stage images. The
theme, the script and the acting were effec-

He wondered whether an elephant could be

tive but the lack of visuals essential for thea-

realistic style, and the need for new forms of

expression.

Mr. Gopalakrishnan (Tamilnadu) raised

66

