DI RECTOR
m

Bansi Kaul

wrights from India and abroad like Badal Sircar,
Vijay Tendulkar, Mohan Rakesh, Bharatendu,
Sophocles, Brecht and others. He had the occasion

to see the variations of Indian folk forms and styles
from very close quarters while touring through
various cities of India. In Lucknow he produced

Hindi adaptation of Gogol’s ‘lnspector General’ in
nautanki style called’ alla Afsar’ which became
milestone production in contemporary lnclian
theatre history.

He was involved as a coordinator for APNA
UISAV (1986-87) and Festival of India in USSR
(1987-88), as a chief designer and Visualiser for

closing ceremony of Festival of India in USSR
Bansi Kaul is among those rare modern young

(1988) and inauguration of festival of India in

theatrists who discovered their own modernity by

Switzerland and China, as a designer for ICCR 8.

their own folk color, fragrance and artistic style. He
has experimented a lot for making a new stage

SNA’s International puppetry festival (1990),

metaphor woven by contemporary thoughts and

Khajurao Dance Festival (1986-87) and stage for
receptions to Dr. Nelson Mandela in India (1990)

folks to explain the way of time and space.

etc. He was invited to America under the ‘lnterna-

tional visitors programme’.
Born on 23rd August 1949 at Srinagar (J & K)

initial means of livelihood. He also had an exhibi-

In 1991 he designed ‘Rang-Yatra’, an exhibition of
theatrical assets on the occasion of 25th anniver-

tion of his paintings in Kashmir. Later he graduated

sary of National School of Drama Repertory Corn-

from the National School of Drama (1973) with

pany.

Bansi Kaul started his career as a painter for his

specialization in stage craft. A well established
name in the modern Indian theatre scene he is

working as a director, actor, light, set, and costume designer. He is also involved in designing of
exhibitions, brochures and posters for ﬁlms and
publications.

As a playwright Bansi Kaul scripted Tankara Ka
Gana (Co—authored by Rajesh Joshi), Khel Guru Ka,
and Soch Ka Doosra Naam...(Co-authored by Satish
Dave). Rang-Birange Joote, Bachchon Ka Circus
and Jangal Se Shahar Ki Ore are children plays
written by him. His few poems have been pub-

He involved himself in various small town theatre
groups all over India where peoples are deprived
of theatrical training opportunities. He directed
classical Sanskrit plays like Mrichhkatikam, Veni
Sanhar, Panchratram, Dash Kumar Charitarn, and
Hasya Churamani etc. He directed works of contemporary Hindi playwrights like Mani Madhukar,
Rajesh Joshi and Rarneshwar l’rem etc. He also
directed works of important and established play-

lished in literary magazines. He has also contributed articles on the recent trends in Indian theatre
to serious journals like ENACT.
ln 1977 he was nominated as a member of Gen-

eral Council of Sangeet Natak Academy and was
also a member of its executive. he was a member

of grants committee of Department of Culture;
member of selection committee, Bharat Bhavan

