DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Relating Brecht to our times is not as difﬁcult as
one may think. The social, political and economic

comedy - for what could be funnier than the role

upheavals of his plays, at once strike one as being

Comedy is, therefore, a much starker statement of

very contemporary. This is even more so in the

the prevailing conditions, and very often we forget

case of ‘Arturo Ui', “a savage and witty parable of
the rise of Hitler - recast by Brecht in terms of a
small-time Chicago gangster taking over the city's
greengrocery trade. "

this. All the characters in the play are portrayed as

reversal of the “good guys" and the “bad guys".

larger than life - as ‘demi-gods’, and an overmelodramatic treatment in performance has deliberately been attempted. This production is, l hope,
an artistic statement on the prevailing socio-

‘Arturo Ui' has many striking resemblances to our

political condition of our nation.

social and political life. The criminalisation of

politics is fast achieving a superb perfectionisrn in
the hands of our politicians. Fascism disguised as
Nationalism; Fascism disguised as Patriotism:
Fascism disguised as social work; in short, Fascism,
wearing many different masks, is emerging from
the embers of our civilisation. Goondas and gangsters emerging as political leaders in every rnohalla,
state and region, have become an accepted norm
of our political life. They are now larger than life the Superrnen of today, governing the decisionrnaking process and morality of our lives.
I have made no effort to relate the play to the rise

of Hitler, as the life around us makes it easier to
identify the characters and meaning of the play.
The nexus between politics and the maﬁosi is

common knowledge. In fact, we have reached the
point today where the State, instead of protecting
the public from the maﬁosi, seeks protection for

itself. The maﬁosi, on the other hand, has become
the common protector. This has had an irrefutable
impact on our day-to-day life. Our children are
found imitating gangsters, playing with toy AK-47s
and indulging in police chases. Our ﬁlms and
television serials are full of gangsters and dreaded
criminals, whom the middle class adores as heroes.
The mutual inﬂuence of ﬁlm and reality on each

other is a strange phenomenon of our times, and
this is the take-off point for ‘TAMANCHA KHAN'.

It is also interesting that we tend to negate the
comic values of life, when life is actually a black

I take this opportunity to extend my gratitude to
the artists, technicians and other staff of Repertory
company for all the help extended to me during
this production.

—Bansi Kaul

