SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY
The reslstlble rise of Artuse Ui
Written on - 1941

First Production - 1958

Scene 5: With the fear of exposer of currupt deals
Bhai Sadachar becomes the Pawn of Tamancha’s
bad game.
Scene 6: Chandan, a enquiry commissioner asks
questions about dockyard deal. Tamancha comes

Comic parable play concerning the Nazis rise to

and make a side of Bhai Sadachar. Because of the

power, set in Chicago's gangland. Ui (Hitler), a
gang leader, sells “Protection" to Chicago’s veg-

murder of one and only eyewitness Chandan closes
this enquiry.

etable merchants and blackmails the mayor,

Dogsborough (Hindenburg). The resulting testament
from Dogsbrough, naming Ui as his successor
causes friction among the gangsters. But Ui,

Scene 7: Tamancha Khan learns sophisticated

styles of sitting, standing, walking and making
speech from an old style actor.

undaunted, passes the way to power by having

those who challenges him-Roma & Dullfect murdered. Thus the vegetable merchants of Cicero
(Austina) are terrorized into asking for Ui’s protec-

tion. Ui now sets his sights on the world beyond
Chicago and Cicero.
This play (Tamncha Khan KI Gazab Dastan)

Interval

Scene 8: ln Cauliﬂower Trust Tamancha Khan orate
a speech according how he has learnt. His
colligues also glorify his status with gun and
emotions. Hearing about the peace in vegetable
market Giree, Colligue of Tamancha goes out. Later
news comes that the Dockyard and Godown of a

Scene I: There is a ﬁnancial crisis in citie's vegetable business. Trusties of ‘cauliﬁower Trust’
disappointed to get loan from Government. Owing
to his a gaugester Tamancha needed to intrude
into vegetable business. But Trustee ignore him

vegetable merchant Kanta has been burnt. Then
Tarnacha says how much vegetable business
needed a protection of gun.

Bhai Sadachar.

Scene 9: Under the pressure of gun, court makes
a statement against an unemployed labour for this
ﬁre.

Scene 2: Working on the plan they set sheete,
their another partner and owner a dockyard to sell

Scene 10: Bhai Sadachar makes his testament, and
exposes Tamancha for all happenings, murders and

his dockyard to Bhai Sadachar.

controversies.

Scene 3: Buchur and Tukra offers shares of

Scene 11: Givola prepares a counterfeit testament
of Bhai Sadachar. Romawala, another colligue

and plan to get a loan with the help of honest

Dookyard to Bhai Sadachar. Flowing with their
emotional black mailing Bhai Sadachar accepts this
offer.

Scene 4: Tamancha Khan is in his bad mood. But
after knowing about the Dockyard deal corruption
he plans to use it against Bhai Sadachar to take

opposes Giree and Givola. Rornawala and

Tamancha plans to expand their business towards
towns all around. But a news paper owner
kundpaya is on their way. Romawala also plans to

murder Bhai Sadachar, Giree and Govola one by
one. Bitty Kundpaya, wife of news paper owner

him on his way.
says to Tamancha all about Romawala’s

mislead ings.

