NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA REPERTORY COMPANY
J

The Repertory Company of the National School of
Drama was formed on an experimental basis by

Shri E. Alkazi, who played a major role in
nurturing and expanding the Company when he

In December 1993, the Repertory participated in
the Vishwa Hindi Sammelan at Mauritius with
performances of three of Mohan Rakesh's plays:
Aashad Ka Ek Din, Aadhe-Adhure and Lehron Ke
Raj hans.

was Director of the School (1962-77). In the
beginning, the Company consisted of only four

actors. It later expanded into a larger group of
actors, musicians and technicians, mainly graduates

In 1994 the Company started a new activity—
presentation of fringe performances consisting of
dramatic readings of world classic as well as new

of the School. Initially, in 1964, the late Om
plays, enactment of poetry and other experiments

Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977 Shri
Manohar Singh was appointed the ﬁrst Chief of the

in the form, content and presentation of theatre.

Company. Over the years the Repertory has
produced a variety of plays ranging from stylised
Acting Chief

j.N. Kaushal

Business Manager

A.C. Gandhi

Sound Technician

S.N. Dasgupta

Music ln-Charge

Om Prakash

Wardrobe ln-Charge

Gursharan Kaur

musicals to realistic contemporary works of lnclian

drama to translations and adaptations of foreign
language plays. Eminent directors from within the
country and abroad have worked with the
Company in the past years.

Workshop ln-Charge

Abdul Hakim

Accounts

O.P. Sagar

Apart from performing in Delhi, the Company tours
Box Ofﬁce

Rarnesh Athwal,

extensively all over India and has also made
SR Yadav,
successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal,
Tika Ram Bhatt
and Mauritius.
PA to Chief

C.D. Tewari

As part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations the
Company toured extensively and organised the
Director of National School

Rang Yatra Theatre Festival in 1991. It also put up
a special exhibition, Rang Yatra, designed by Shri
Bansi Kaul. The work of the National School of
Drama Repertory Company since its inception is

depicted through photographs, models, jewellery,
costumes, etc. in this exhibition. It has been on

view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay, I’une,
Goa, Bangalore, Jaipur, Ahrnedabad and Nasik as
well.

In December-january 1992-93, the Repertory paid
homage to Mohan Rakesh, the celebrated
playwright, on his 20th death anniversery by
organising a major festival of all his plays and
dramatic adaptations of his short stories.

of Drama

Klrtl laln

