PAGE 12. SEPTEMBER 24. 2016. SATURDAY

a;

THE ASSAM TRIBUNE, GUWAHATI

च-स-ते-इ-नेरे "णे ‘ T 7"""‘ न्ध-आँम्पटदृण्माप्लां'
" l ,>l.:§ tines not exist until it is on stage. "

2 7b Tango, 3 Tinve, directed
by Saurabh Shukla, staged on Sep-

v lrniiessee Williams
"टु

भाशा' :he past three weeks. it was
clear that something was brewing
३ i in Guwahati. There was a certain
V bun 3:: the hotfhunntl September
heather that clearly smelled otgobd
theatre great theatre... )ltinihai theatre. to be
precise. Th :1 \\ ere l)liil)v‘ Iartls all over the city
that carrzetf .: Cl'L‘Ull\‘t‘l}‘ designed logo which

ry on the trials and tribulations of

male genital organ. In a performance that
ranged from sublime to sheer power, MonaAmbegaonkar, Dilnaz Irani, Mahabanoo Mody K0-

modern life, the play was a roll-

twal, Dolly Thakore and Swati Das, indeed gave

that showcased the travails of people in var—

er-coaster ride of emotions. Exhilarating performances by Achint

a new dimension and message on sexuality that

ious situations of work, family life, etc. Each

made the audience squirm and laugh at the
same time. Yes, it got a
huge standing ovation.
The same evening had The
Truths of Womanhood, a
solo performance by Kalki
Koechlin. In a short 40-

was a gem of a performance that brought the
house down with laughter. “Never have I
laughed so much," was the popular refrain
after the show.

festival would go Over the next
three days. A contemporary sto—

. ad G )ill\ Guwahati 'l‘heatre Festival. 2016.
The billb i:

also carried several known faces

lat we reg, .rh catch on TV and Hindi cine—
. Some \‘otlltl lie easily identiﬁed, like Saura»
. Shuklzi. \inay Pathak. Rajat Kapoor, Kalki
Ii echlin. Neil Bhoopalam. There were others

September 15

A E 0 seemed familiar. And then, Facebook sud:lenly came alive with all the details: six plays
spread over five days between September 14 to
1१९. showcasing the best of theatre artistes from
Mumbai. The buzz went on to become a din; a
veritable feast awaited Guwahati's
theatre connoisseurs.
In the plush environs of the
Pragjyoti ITA Centre, Mach~

was somewhat

The creativity and sensitivity of the organ—
isers were apparent front two aspects. On the
ﬁnal day, they chose to honour the doyen of
Assamese theatre, Kulada Kr

B hat tac harj ee ,
with a lifetime
achievement
award titled “Life
in the Theatre”
award. It was an

emotional experi—
ence seeing the

fragile stalwart

It’ s rainin

AP 'l‘iwari (IPS). theatre buff and
MD of ASTC. and the festival took
flight on a brilliant note with Ham-

walk up to the .

stage and receive ‘
the award from
Ashutosh Agni-

plays!

let — The Clown Prime, directed

by Rajat Kapoor, starring Vinay
Pathak and Neil Bhoopalam,

tent ०।" adding six “clumsy” but
highly talented clowns and a healthy dose of
gibberish might be a purist‘s nightmare, the
deep and dark philosophy, the spontaneity be
tween the actors and a smattering of excep—
tional improvisations took stage performance
to a dizzying level of brilliance that left Guwa-

world, the play demanded that all inhibitions
be sited on the biggest human taboo: the fe-

of a disappoint—
ment in the context of The Living Room being

khowa, on September 14, the cer—
emonial lamp was lit by chiefguest

among others. While interpreting
a Shakespeare tragedy to the ex-

lection of monologues taken from all over the

tival with Rajit Kapur’s One on One — Part 2.
Performed by eight artistes, including Kapur
himself, Anu Menon, Neil Bhoopalam, Shernaaz Patel, Surneet Vyas, Shikha Talsania,
Gopal Dutt and Vrajesh Hirjee, the play was
a succession of mono-acts on short scripts

tember 16, showed the way the

Kaur, Sadiya Siddique, Preity Mamgain and
Shukla himselfcreated a laughathon that had the
a Kalki Koechlin directorial debut. The play, प audience in splits and yet it was just not a sex
by itself, was good but somehow, for a cornecomedy but a hilaridy on death, it left the audience seeking
Gangman Das ous reflection on
something more than what was offered.
modern urban life.
Koechlin herself came on stage and took the
The Vagina Monologues, staged on the afternoon of September 17, was the most unique
final bow, declaring that the cast was performing together for the first time.
spectacle ever on the Guwahati stage. A col»
tदृ r“??? T३हत्त्व'श्र्वश्ले चूच्चाएंट्वे'नि--भूच्चाग्नि'च्चादृच्चि'८ ३ ,—

दृ."

hotri, Secretary &

Commissioner,
State Transport
Department. The
other creative aspect was the interactive sessions
held after each

rninute monoI ogue,

K o e c l1 1 i n
gave a fem—
'
inist’s perspective to life in general and
sought to draw the attention of the world to
the immense power that the supposedly
weaker sex holds.

The curtains came down on the theatre fes-

play where the audience got an opportunity to

talk to the actors. The interactions for each play
were hosted by Dr Abhijit Hazarika, Tinat Atifa

Masood, Rohan Das, Swapnil Bharali, Kauser
l-lilaly and Dr Asha Kuthari Chaudhuri.

चुw .— , ५
' ' '

८ 4 ८१७ ,v ,५

.‘V

,j;~jr ८८

T

k r Kw...

., «in...

r, x“

द्वा m. . -

v» 12:19

