DELHI ART THEATRE
Flat 36, Shankar Market, Connaught Circus,

New Delhi—110001

Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution
in promoting and enriching theatre for over 30 years. Its productions have been acclaimed not only in Delhi but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and beyond.
Particularly in the field of operas and musical dramas the group, under the direction of
Sheila Bhatia, has carved a unique and unrivalled place for itself. It is gratifying to note
that those who till recently scoffed at this genre are enthusiastically adopting or attempt-

ing to introduce music and dance in their plays. We can take legitimate pride as the
pioneers and creators of this movement as we always believed that Indian theatre, if it has
to take firm roots, cannot do without integrating song, dance and drama based on indigenous forrns using modern techniques.
Probably ours
is the only group which has experimented with original plays or
operas and musicals in the three mojor languages of this region, namely. Punjabi, Urdu
and Hindi. The themes of our plays deal with burning social and human problems of the
peOples.

Their sorrows and joys and frustrations particularly about women form a large
canvas of our repertoire. Almost all our plays are original and indigenous. Only once in
a while we have fallen back on a foreign play.

Our productions, to name a few, like Heer Ranjha. Prithviraj Chauhan, Ghalib-KaunHai,

Jugni,

Chann - Badlan - Da, l<issa Yeh Aurat Ka- Hawa Se

Dard

Aye

Ga

Dab'e

Paon,

Shahanshah

Hippie Tak, Nadir

Akbar,

Sulagde

Darya

Shah,

etc,

were hailed
as landmarks in Indian theatre.
They Created a stir and were
treated as setting a new trend in experimental and
innovative theatre. But

the group faces many

serious

problems.

The biggest is to find a cast of

talented

actors and singers. We dOn't use mikes. But the modern music schools, TV, radio,
films by and large only produce crooners. There is no training for elocution or

voice culture.

The quality of inner emotion and stress is missing.

But we are still lucky

to possess a few artistes who can match in capacity and capability the best found anywhere. Strenuous training and persistent efforts to improve the quality of acting, singing

and stage-craft forms an integral part of our curriculum.
Delhi has still not achieved adulthood in theatre.

Out of a population of nearly

seven million hardly a few thousand are frequent theatre goers.

Somehow it has not

reached all levels of people and remain basically a limited middle class phenomenon. There
is no broad based cultural movement involving wide strata of peOple.

Unless strenuous

efforts are made in educational institutions from the beginning to inculcate broad based
culture, there is little hope of improvement. Another tendency to deplore is holding free
shows. Big ads appear in news papers asking peOple to collect their passes at the gate

