A Note on the Play
Out of a dozen and a half of original operas and musicals I have written during , my
theatre career, l have only chosen one foreign playwright for moulding two of his playsFederico Garcia Lorca.
Lorca always attracted me for his passionate approach to human relationships. His
imagination is fresh and rich. His flesh and blood characters become monumental. lntroduction of mysterious and fantastic characters carrying the theme forward is so logical.
Terseness of his expressions is meticulous. Not a word is wasted. Not one more word
What logical sequences of events leads the characters to their fate
among songs 8 prernonitions ? The human fatality comes alive with such power and
vitality. Theatre of song and rhythm having been my very special field, integration of
poetry and drama struck me the most. His plays are hot blooded. l deliberately chose
Punjabi as the most suitable language for expression of his tliOughts.
seems to be required.

Yerrna, another of his plays which we did before, was almost a translation. To put
Lorca's ideas in Blood Wedding in my mother tongue in an adaptation was very exciting

and challenging.

I wanted to give it a home with believable surroundings and convinc-

clans
I chose foot - hills of undivided Punjab and two .farming
are inherent in the
which could possibly go through the traumatic experiences which
ing characters.

play.

This

so much

is the land of Heer

blood

flows

!

And how

Ranjha,
the

Shohni

mother

Mahiwal etc.

earth

For a

drinks it - as if

wedding

always thirsty

relationship
for more and more. What causes this blood shed? The family feuds. Passionate
between man and woman.

and revenge !

Jeal0usies. Lust for

land

Small things get magnified thousand fold.

or

possessions.

Superiority

Be it two individuals or two

and is on the brink of destruTwo states. Two nations The world is torn asunder
invented. A little knife. Be it
Only if the weapons of destruction had not been
ction
Bombs—symbols of developing
of stone or iron, swords, pistols. Bombs. Nuclear
different if these weapons of destruccivilization, Destiny of so many would have been
nearer home in Punjab, Assam and on
tion had not been there. The play has a relevance
of violence l That is what struck me the
a wider scale. The futility and rneaninglessness
.
ties.
most besides the play's other magnetic quali
clans.

murder and Death; the ultimate
The Moon in Blood Weddlng as a medium of
mythology is a grotesque character. Here
divouring force, fascinated me. Yama in our
y
and begging the Moon to light up the valle
in Lorca's play it is a woman laying the trap
is barred.
so that the escape of the lovers

letely shocked me.
My first contact with Moon in the play comp

Moon wanting

soothing and
Moon has always been considered so
blood for warmth : Not done. The
Moon is considered
according to Spanish folk lore the
romantic. Later I discovered that

