Don't murders, robberies, rapes take
to be the Godess Kali, a symbol of destruction.
ow of the Moon? Convincing argument
place in the cover of the night, under the very shad
day light. Moon is not a life giving
even if crimes have started taking place in broad
light. Tonight it is blood thirsty. A
force. It is cold and is dependent on the Sun for its
exploring.
totally different role of the Moon. Anything new is worth
actor's metal.
Every role in this play is challenging and tests the

Particularly

rs in a new role and discovers
Madanbala Sindhu, a singer with a golden voice, appea

r challenges for the songstress.
another facet of hers. It is a demand that surpasses all earlie
opportunity to disBesides her a bunch of new actresses and actors have had an
for their earlier performances.
cover their talent abilities,so different from the requirement

play like
l have introduced some characters which are not there in the original
sehra on the eve of
Shama's friends to give a local colour; the Sehre-wali who brings the
souls. Some customs
the wedding. A faqir that speaks the hearts of the tormented
clans - like the coming of
have been introduced that Speak of the surroundings and the
take the girl by force if girl's
the wedding processions, its challenging posture that it could
parents raised any objection.
tragedy which
Music in this play is totally different. This time it is to heighten the
which mock at the
is slowly building up. These are songs of doom and premonition

Many of the lyrics I
individual which is a pawn in the hand of so many outside forces.
ers are given original
composed are based on the poetry in the original play. New charact
tunes smell of
songs. A couple of couplets by Shah Hussein have been fitted in. Their
Punjabi folk but have a different texture.
t dimenThe last point I want to make is about the end of the play where a differen
no men left.
sion has been attempted. It is significant that in the last scene there are
Only women to mourn their dead.

What could be more tragic?

The play is a powerful

indictment against violence— its utter futility and meaninglessness.

— Sheila Bhatia

