is a basic model for temptation and guilt, Kleist has merely hit
on an eternal pattern for humanity. Whereas elsewhere he
approaches his plots gravely, almost cerernoniously and as if in
rage, here he is behaving in an easy-going, even idyllic manner.
The milieu is a windless area, the Dutch countryside.

Kleist

enjoys the scenes with the guilty judge as a burlesque entanglement in a web of brilliant lies. This is a virtuoso performance
and the fact that he could do it displays Kleist‘s technical genius
in the dramatic ﬁeld. Yet this is not the core of the matter.
The language betrays that this is not a case of a great artist
showing off his talents i n farce, for once, because it am uses him.
The play stands in relation to Kleist’s basic problem of how
man becomes and remains sure of himself, transcending the

enigmatic character of the world. He called it the imperrurba—
bility offeeling which is the last resort of the ego. As Kleist’s
foreword says, the play originated from seeing an engraving of a
court scene in the Dutch manner. The scene is attested for 1802
in Switzerland by Zschokke. The play was slowly prepared

during Kleist’s journeys but not finished until 1805/6 in Ko'nigsberg. Chronologically it is linked with Guiskard and Amphitryon.

The comedy is a satirical record of a court scene
where they are trying to discover the truth, the victory of truth
over appearance, against probability. The thorny central point
of the proceedings is the innocenCe of the girl, irnrnaculacy as
the fundamental state of the graciom creature. But the hero is
not the woman but the tempter, the liar, who would himself so

much like to apply to the devil in explanation of wickedness,
Adam the village judge—that can only be a comic hero.

The Broken Jug is not based on an idea but on a scene, and
its execution is the real content of the comedy —with ideas

glinting through here and there.
In this play Kleist pushed the cat-and-mouse game with the

details of villainy to its most extreme, in wit, in innuendo,
ambiguity, deliberate or foolish misunderstanding, talking at
cross purposes, attribution of false statements, opinions and
facts, the persuasion of wrong, the art of distortion. Walter, the

