court counsel who has come to study the peculiar practices of
this court’s procedure, and by no means to improve them,
enters into it. He builds golden bridges for Adam and only at

the last moment do the State, the law and bureaucracy give
place to truth in his mouth.
In the ﬁre of Kleist’s searing humour the villain becomes
almost a sympathetic human being. His self-obsession and
lechery do not appear as moral vices but as the weaknesses of a
vital nature. A peculiar sympathy transﬁgures the abuse of
ofﬁce and dignity.
Adam boozes, gobbles, whores, lies and
regards the whole world as gullible and credulous, just as every

girl is an object of his lust. He believes so ﬁrmly in the external
happenings of the ofﬁce, the position, the social consideration,
the legal convention, and in his own words and lies, that they
have an implicit innocence and seem like the foolishness of a

Falstaﬁ or a Don Quixote. He is rooted in lies. He is quite
incapable by now of belief in truth and goodness, even where it
could be of use to him in an emergency. He is the perfect
picture of a world ruined by bureaucracy which regards its
blindness as a stage of extreme enlightenment. The world is
diminished, but in the diminished relationships it comes right
again. Adam talks uninterruptedly and the more he talks, to talk
himself out of it: the more suspect does the content of his
speech become. He does not tie himself in knots dialectically,
he is too cunning for that, but his tirading art leads him into the
details of that confusion which lies at the bottom of the world.
By talking, Adam contrives to miss the real point of his speech,
the truth. His happiness is that of impudence and sometimes
one seems to sense how sad Kleist was that the happiness of
feasting, boozing and whoring was denied to him. Adam lives
in a paradise of the most barefaced naiveté and enjoyment.
Kleist, who was always in search of paradise, whether as a

"scholar” or as a traveller on his journeys through half Europe,
or in the the dreams of a Swiss agricultural idyll, had the world
of judge Adam behind him since Kant. But where was his pride
now? He had reflected it most symbolically in his girls and
woman, those gracious creatures. They were the pure vessels of

