w
tives
the same time he began litigation against his rela
that lasted eighteen years but finally resulted in his ac
quisition of a share of his father’s estate.

In 1747 Gozzi helped to found the Granelleschi Academy, an amateur literary group devoted
to preserving the style of earlier writers through
the reciprocal criticism ofits members on the basis
of their preferred Tuscan models. Gozzi published in

1757 a long satiric poem, The ’I‘artane: An Almanac of
Inﬂuxesfor the Leap Year 1 756, in which he criticized
Goldoni and Pietro Chiari for their introduction of

written plays in place of the ﬂexible scenarios of the
commedia dell’arte. from which actors were accustomed to improvise. Goldoni was stung into a reply, to
which Gozzi retaliated with a satire in the form of a
carnival story about a mask with four faces, representing the theatre of Goldoni. In order to point out Goldoni’s

failings as a dramatist. Gozzi also wrote, between 1757
and 1761 , satirical operettas and poems.
Success in this literary war encouraged Gozzi
to beginwriting his fiabe (theatrical fairy tales. or
fables), for Antonio Sacchi‘s troupe to prove his
theory that the public was as readily amused by
fantasy as by realism. Gozzi freely donated these plays
to Sacchi for the pleasure of seeing them acted. The first

ﬁaba was written and presented in 1761, By 1776, ten
had been produced by the troupe and applauded by the
Venetian public. Also between 1761 and 1768. Gozzi

wrote Marfisa the Bizarre (Marfisa bizzaITa), a long
burlesque poem published in 1772. That same year a
collection of his dramatic works was published, the

fruit of his ten years of writing for the troupe.
In 1771 Teodora Riccijoined Sacchi’s troupe. and

Gozzi, who had kept himself free of amorous entanglements for thirty—five years, became her lover and protector. The ambitious actress deserted him four years

later for Petro Antonio Gratarol. secretary of the Venetian Senate. Gozzi, who had written several plays for
her, now wrote The Love Potions produced ( 1777),

l

openly satirizing Gratarol and precipitating a public

