The hysteria that gripped Salem and it's surroundings in 1692 were by no means
unprecedented in the history of that period. The 'witch hunt' as an institution is almost
symptomatic of an age unable to cope with itself. By the end of the seventeeth
century, Europe lay exhausted, and the European consciousness profoundly affected.
by the collapse of the feudal order and the authority of the church, at that time, still
unable to deal with the crisis of the reformation. The easiest explanation as well as the
most convenient one for the prevailing chaos was found in a grand design inspired by
Satan and carried out by his hosts on earth, with the sole object of destroying
Christendom. The blame, of course was laid on the easiest victims. Throughout
Northern Europe from Poland to Scotland, old helpless women. jews. gypsies, religious
minorities, and dissenters were brutally tortured and more often than not killed............
for being in league with Satan.
ln a sense, the idealistic inhabitants of New Jerusalem or “Salem" had come
away from England to America to avoid being caught in the malaise that they believed
had gripped Europe. Their intent was to build a Puritan Utopia in the virgin forests of
New England. Persecuted as dissenters in England, they in turn brooked no disagreement with the authority of their church. The egalitaraian, Christian Utopia, that had
been New Jerusalem soon turned itself into a totalitarian Theocracy. Petty jealousies
and economic rivalry, opportunisrn and land hunger, and sermons vivid with the images
of hell soon set ablaze the most celebrated witch hunt in history.

ECHOES DOWN THE CORRIDOR
Not long after the fever died, Parris was voted from ofﬁce, walked out on the
highroad, and was never heard of again.
The legend has it that Abigail turned up later as a prostitute in Boston.
Twenty years after the last execution, the government awarded compensation to
the victims still living. and to the families of the dead. However, it is evident that some
people still were unwilling to admit their total guilt, and also that the factionalisrn was
still alive, for some beneﬁciaries were actually not victims at all, but informers.
Elizabeth Proctor married again, four years after Proctor's death.
In solemn meeting, the congregation rescinded the excommunications—this in
March 1712. But they did so upon orders of the government. The jury, however. wrote
a statement praying forgiveness of all who had suffered.
Certain farms which had belonged to the victims were left to ruin. and for more
than a century no one would buy them or live on them.
To all intents and purposes, the power of theocracy in Massachusetts was
broken.

