Treat for city’s culture vultures
onn, connesponDEN‘T ivy
A FESTIVAL ofthe Arts whi

marks the 13th anniversarythis '
year will be held from Octo—
ber 22-26 at India International
Centre. What is distinctive
about this festival of the arts is
the range it presents — dance,
music, theatre, ﬁlms, exhibi—
tions and special cuisine with
IIC’s fine open air spaces hosting most of these events.
The IIC Experience: A Festival of the Arts this year has
a strong focus on Bengal. The musical theatre which marks of the Asiatic Society to the
festival opens on October 22 the centenary of World War I knowledge and study ofhuman
at 6:30 pm with a presentation and is a tribute to the victims civilization in Asia since 1784.
of ‘Chaturvidh’, four dances in directed by Prof waman Ken—
‘~KG Subramanyan: An Aes-.
the Odishi Marga, presented by dre, Director NSD and will be thetic Journey: celebrates the
Odishi Vision and Movement presented in Hindi by National life and work of the renowned
Centre, Kolkata and choreo— School of Drama Repertory artist with an exhibition of origgraphed by the noted dancer, Company.
inal works in gouache, ink on
Sharmila Biswas.
Arias, Opera and Musical paper, acrylic - reverse paintA morning concert will be 'lheatre on October 24 at 6:30 ing on acrylic sheet,the artist’s
presented on Sunday with a pm, marks the launch of an own writings and illustrated
tribute to mark the birth cen- exciting new group, The Lyric bOoks for children. Curated
tenary ofthe legendary artiste, Ensemble of Delhi with music by Vijay Kowshik, the exhibiMS Subbulakshmi with ‘Born direction by Clayton Dug— tion will be on View at the Art
to Sing: A Shy Girl from Mad- gan, artistic direction by Diniz Gallery; Kamaladevi Complex ‘
urai’ presented by Just Us Rep- Sanchez and Founder/Voice until November 4.
ertory, Chennai. In the evening Coach by Situ Singh Buehler;
‘In the Language of Clay’
Ghazab Teri Adaa— a comic IIC would host a Hindustani will be an exploration and trib—
vocal music by Iayateerth Mev~ ute to artisans and craftsper—
undi of the Kirana Gharana, sons working with clay with an
disciple of the late Pt Arjunsa exhibition of terracotta objects
Nakod and late Pt Shripati and live demonstrations by
Padegar on the next day. llie craftspersons.
ﬁnal performance ofthe festival
Concurrently IIC Experi~
on October. 26‘willﬁfeature an ence will also be hosting two
international concert by Accor- thematic ﬁlm festivals: ‘Cele—
' dion State Youth} Orchestra of brating Six Decades of Span—
Baden—Wilerttembergwith the ish Cinema’ and ‘A Date with
Conductor, SilkeD’lnka, a 30 Shakespeare’ featuring 6 Shake—
piece orchestra.
speare adaptations“ by diverse
The exhibitions in the festi— directors. As a cross over
val, bOth indoors and outdoors ८ between performance and ﬁlm,

include ‘Time Past and Time
Present: Treasures of Human
Knowledge’ at the Asiatic Soci—
ety, Kolkata, an exhibition on
the history and contribution

screening ofa restored version
of a silent Italian ﬁlm made in
1916, Cenere directed by Febo
Mari with live soundtrack will
also be held.

