INTRODUCTION
The Repertory Company of the National School of Drama
was formed on experimental basis by Shri. E. Alkazi, who
had major hand in nurturing and expanding the Company
as the Director of the School till mid 1970’s. In the
beginning, the Company-Consisted of four actors which
later expanded into a larger group of actors musicians and
technicians, mainly the graduates from the School. Initially
in 1964 late Om Shivpuri was leading the Company and
later in 1977 Shri Manohar Singh was declared the first
formal Chief of the Company and continued till I985.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of
plays ranging from stylised musicals, realistic
contemporary works of Indian theatre and also translation
and adaptations of foreign plays.
Various directors of India and abroad have worked with
the Company throughout the past years.
Apart from performing in Delhi the Company undertakes
extensive tours all over India and has also made
successful trips to G.D.R., Poland, Britian, Berlin and
Kathmandu.

As part of the Silver Jubilee celebration the Company
took an extensive tour last year and further in the month

of April put up Rangyatra _ Theatre Festival and an

exclusive exhibition Designed by Shri Bansi Kaul .
depicting the work of N.S.D. Repertory Company and its
cross section since inception through photographs,

models, Jewellery, costumes etc. This exhibition has been
on view in Delhi for over four months and has travelled to
Bombay, Pune, Goa and Bangalore.

Actors who worked with the company in yester years
Late Om Shivpuri, Sudha Shivpuri, Meena Williams,
Mohan Maharishi, Anjala Maharishi, Ram Copal Bajaj,
Karnlakar Sontakka, Rajendra Gupta, Usha Banerjee,
Uttara Baokar, Manohar Singh, Surekha Sikri, Jyoti
Deshpande, Rajesh Vivek, Vasant Josalkar, Vijay Kashyap,
Madhumalthi Mehta, Sudhir Kulkarni, Pankaj Kapoor,

Raghuvir Yadav, Virendra Rajdan, Raja Bundela, K.K.
Raina, Deepak Kazir, Anang Desai, OP. Namdev, Dolly
Ahluwalia, Anila Singh, Yuvraj Sharma, Lalit Tewari,

Lokendra Trivedi, Hirnani Shivpuri, Nutan Surya, Herna
Singh, Shrivallabh Vyas, Anuparn Shayam and others.

Some important actors who works for a short while is Sh.
M.K. Raina, Sh. Nasiruddin Shah, Sh. Om Puri, Sh.
Auparn Kher and more recently Zohra Segal.

