THE WEEK ॰ SEPTEMBER 25, 2016

anjnaKapoor ,
Where is the playwright today?
as the playwright shifted

from being a central part
of contemporary Indian
theatre to sharing this space with
other players, or perhaps shifting
off centre all together? This was the
question that was begged at a recent
public conversation, in Pune, felicitating Shanta Gokhale. Shanta has
been a witness to and participant of
the theatre life, over the past four
decades, in various avatars from
playwright, to theatre critic, to arts
page editor, to board member of sev—
eral illustrious arts organisations, to
inspiration and gentle provocateur.
She has taken her role in the theatre
world seriously.
The other speakers were theatre
directors Sunil Shanbag and Mohit
Takalkar and playwright, actor and
director Irawati Karnik. I was given
the onerous task (quite terrifying, actually) of moderating this discussion.
The background to our discussion
was contemporary theatre in urban
Maharashtra.
Shanta set the stage by talk—
ing about the centrality ofthe
playwright in the 18003, when
theatre groups were run by actormanagers and the audience were
ofa more literary bend, wanting
to purchase play scripts and read
them after the show. Over time,
the directorcame into being. And
in the 1900s it was the interpreta—
tion oftexts that was at the fore,
very often leaving the playwright
in the shadows, as new ways of
exploring his or her workwere
explored.
So, what is the position of

the playwright today?
We live in an age ofcollaborations.

Collaboration is part ofthe culture
ofour times, and theatre, too, has
responded to this way ofworking.
All those part ofthis discussion had
worked collaboratively in some
way oranother. There have been
collaborations between actors and
playwrights, as Mohit got his actors
to research aspects ofhis playF1/105

written by Ashutosh Potdar; between
musicians and directors, as Shubha
Mudgal and Aneesh Pardhan worked

with Sunil Shanbag tobreathe life
into their research project resulting
in Stories in a Song; between director
and playwright, as Sunil directed S*x

M*rality ईटे Cens*rship, which was
developed by Shanta and Irawati; and
between two playwrights, as Irawati
is in the process ofwriting a playwith

Neel Chaudhuri.
Interestingly, even though

collaboration is a common facet
in theatre, the directors held the
playwright in differing positions in

their process ofworking on a play.
Sunil, as Shanta suggested, ‘casts’
his playwright. Once the play is writ—
ten, Sunil does not like the playwright

to be involved in the rehearsal, feeling
it is an intimate space for the actors

and director to explore the text and
divulge theatrical life out ofit.
Whereas Mohit Takalkar has a diametrically opposite way ofworking,
in which he values the playwright’s
presence during the rehearsal process. And he values this collaborative
interaction.
Irawati felt the playwright should
let go, and need not feel compelled
to be part ofthe process of creating
the play beyond writing it, always
aware that the life ofthe play is in the
performing ofit.
When it came to current trends of
devised theatre, Sunil felt that the
need for a group of“equals in the
room” is most critical to its success.
It is only then that one can create a

piece ofvaluable work.
Mohit agreed and added that
devised theatre needs a great
amount oftime, at least eight
to ten months. No one has that
luxury in India. In western
theatre, devised work'began 30

years ago, and we are struggling
to understand what devised
theatre is today. Now itwill take
us another 20 years to discover

imrnersive theatre!
Clearly, the playwright’s centrality has shifted... but surely the
question to ask is, what about the
centrality ofthe idea?
Sanjna Kapoor is a theatre practitioner

and co-founder of Junoon Theatre.

