The Banga Sri little Ballet Troupe
Bhopal
Born on 20th January, 1952 and founded by four artists under the guidance of Sh.
Shanti Bardhan, we started off as a repertoire theatre in Bombay. We are soon joined by

other talented artists and in 1964 we shifted to Gwalior.

We began to function as a centre

of training in the theatre arts, in addition to our work as a professional company maintaining

high standards of' performance.
In 1984 we shifted to Bhopal and reconstituted ourselves as an institute of
named Ranga:Sri.

theatre arts

We have more than 20 full length ballets to our credit along with a number of folk
dances of India, short ballets in the Manipuri and Chauu Classical and Traditional forms,
symphony and orchestra presentations and dramas such as ‘Nadi .iPyasi Thi’, ‘Avaam Indrajeet’, ‘Are Sharief Log’, "I‘ankara Ka Gana’ etc.

We have given more than 3000 performances out of which 400 performances have
been abroad. We have also performed for visiting dignitaries and ofﬁcial delegations on
behalf of the Government.
We have set up choreoprapghy study camps which have been attended by Choreographers from many countries.
Amongst our many activities, we also organise annually, ballet festivals for students,
choral workshops for local singers, childeren’s drama and song festivals and we help the
local cultural groups with music and lighting facilities.
We are proud of the fact that amongst other distinctions our group is the recipient of
4 international awards and one national award.
In the near future we plan to own a complex with studios, class rooms, workshops,
store, library, museum Staff quarters, hostel, playground, garden and theatre. We want to

build a special school for telented children and we aim to build the institution into a major
National Art institution which will provide for art education in varied forms of classical and
folk forms of the Performing Arts,

We need and request your patronage and sponsorship to enable the troupe to perform
and meet its goels effectively.

