Scene 11—A group of hungry pigeons, however, ignores the Crow’s warning and is caught in the
hunter’s net. Their king Chitragriva, however, retains his presence of mind; under his
inspiration the birds make a united effort and ﬂy away with the snare, leaving the

Hunter stupeﬁed.

The Crow, curious to know what would happen next, follows the

pigeons’ ﬂight.
Scene III——

Chitragriva leads his ﬂock to the home of .the Mouse Hiranyaka.

The latter, always

ready to help a friend, cuts the snare and frees the ﬂock. The Crow is much impressed and
seeks Hiranyaka friendship. The Mouse hesitates; how can traditionally hostile species be
friends? But good-will can conquer age—long prejudice; encouraged by Chitragriva, the
Crow and the Mouse pledge friendship.
Scene IV—

Drought and famine hit the land. Starving humans begin to hunt game indiscrlmi—
nately. Birds begin to desert the kindly banyan tree I and migrate to more hospitable regions.

‘What shall we do ?’ moans the Mouse. ‘Let us go to Mantharaka, the Tortoise,’
suggests the Crow, ‘he is an old friend and will help us.’ The Mouse cannot ﬂy, but the Crow
carries him on his back.
Scene V—

Mantharaka the Tortoise has a lakeside home. Loaded with learning, he is slow but
resourceful ; he is also a teacher and preceptor to the other lake-dwellers. Welcoming his
friends, the Crow and the Mouse, he shows them round the lake, whiich he‘calls his ‘shrine of
learning.’ The very mention of ‘shrine’ puts the Mouse into a melancholy, for it reminds him
of the bitter part.
Scene VI—

A switch-back to the past. The Mouse used to live near a shrine. The Priest used
to go to town every day for alms ; on his return he used to hang up remnants of his
delicious food for the following day. This was an opportunity which the Mouse and his gang
made good use of.
One day the Priest’s preceptor came on a Visit, to ﬁnd his disciple preoccupied and
inattentive. The Guru was about to curse him when he explained his predicament, expressing
wonder that a mouse could jump so high.
‘Oh, said the Guru wisely.

‘It is wealth that puts springs in the mice’s legs.

is power’.

Wealth

He and the Priest plan to search for the mice’s hoard ; the mice, overbearing,
decide on strategy and take a roundabout course. Their luck is out, however, many are
pounced upon by a cat and the rest are robbed of their riches by the Priest. The despondent

Mouse had just decided to abandon his home when the Crow met him.

