Scene Vl I ~—

The Tortoise asks him to be of good cheer ; not to bemoan Fate but to trust in one’s
own efforts. The bounteous Earth provides for all. The lake itself is a little world where
they can all live together in the midst of peace and plenty. Reassured, the Crow and the
Mouse settle down to the good life with their friend the Tortoise.
Scene VIII—

Chitranga, the Deer is roaming the forest with his mate when the Hunter appears.
While running for life, the mates get separated, Chitranga, utterly exhausted, falls down by

the lake edge. The three friends succour him and restore him to health.
again to look for his mate while the three friends go on forage.
When the Deer does not return for a long time, the friends get

Chitranga sets out

worried ; the Crow

carJies the Mouse on a reconnaissance ﬂight and the two themselves fail to return.
the Tortoise himself sets out in search.

Finally

Seene [X—
The Deer has been caught in a snare.

Finding him thus the Mouse cuts his

bonds and

sets him free. Just then the Tortoise also arrives on the scene, followed by the Hunter. All
the friends take to ﬂigt but the slow Tortoise is caught. The Hunter consoles himself for the
loss of the Deer by this substitute.
Scene X —

'I‘he friends learn of the Tortoise’s fate and their gloom returns.
plan of rescue.

But they hit upon a

The Deer, feigning death, lies down near the lake across the Hunter’s path

and is discovered. The overjoyed Hunter sets down the Tortoise and run home to fetch a
pole to carry the Deer. Meanwhile the Mouse cuts the Tortoise loose and all disappear.
The Hunter returns to discover his mysterious loss. He decides that the forest must be haunted
and runs for his life.
Scene XI—-

The Hunter has departed and the woodlands are safe and free again.

creatures, furred or feathered, rejoice.

All its wild

Through cooperation and mutal aid they have won

peace and freedom and secured their happiness.

If beasts can win so great a prize
Offriendship, why should wonder rise
In good men who are true and wise ?

