Director Rodney Marriott
Rodney Marriott made his New York debut with ‘The Runner Stumbles’ at Circle
Repertory in 1979 and since, has also directed ‘Innocent Thoughts, Harmless Intention’,

‘The Diviners’, and ‘The Holdup’ for them.

He has over a hundred productions to his

credit. These include a production for NSD, Delhi, titled ‘Karori Marco’ and a musical
in China.

His other major stage works include ‘The Rivals’, ‘Twelfth Night’ and ‘A Street Car

Named Desire’ and ‘A View from the Bridge’ for Yale University.
Mr. Marriott was the Associate Artistic Director at New York’s
Repertory Company.

award-winning Circle

Director’s Note
On The Play
When drought strikes, it sears land, shrivels crops and slays the animals. Nothing
grows. And until water falls, there is only survival. Life becomes merely pragmatic, barely
functional.

Finally, under such a burden, Man can lose his very soul.

.

It is against such a landscape as metaphor that we meet the Curry

family.

Father

H. C. has always let his children ﬁnd their own way in life. The youngest, Jimmy, clings
to a romantic illusion or two, but eldest brother Noah’s, strong belief only in what is practical
and rational seeks to batter it out of him.

And even honest, plain Lizzie, who does not

want to resort to deception to ‘get a husband’, is coming to believe that Noah is right,

that she will be an unmarried ‘old maid’, that like the dying

and cracked land she

is barren.
Enter The Rainmaker.

bringer of hope.

He is a fast talker, a dream-merchant, a weaver of stories, a

He promises rain of course and that the cows will spring back to life and

the land blossom bright green with fresh crops. Is he honest ? Can he do what he says ?
You will ﬁnd out in the couse of the play, Regardless, Richard Nash seems to be suggesting

we need hope in order to keep our souls.

We must not live in a world of dreams, but we

also mustn’t be limited only to the difﬁcult realities. With a touch of hope, Jimmy can
meet his girl ; Starbuck can receive his money ; Deputy Sheriff File can risk committing
himself to another human being again ; and Lizzie—our wonderful Lizzie—can even have a
choice of husbands I

This play and all of the Arts are the moist clouds on the horizon when things around
us seem altogether too dry and bleak.

For it is the imagination which can free us

and

help us rise from the earthly limits we set for ourselves, so that we soar where
beauty is.
——ROD MARRIOTT

