4.

Bhopal-Bhopal—Best, Child

artiste (Jaya

'I'ripathi)

best

experimental

play,

Certiﬁcate of merit for direction-(Parimal Datta) at All India Multilingual short play Competition, Allahabad.
Symposia-Seminars—

Roopkatha has organised various Symposia and Seminars with S/Sri Rudra Prasad
Sengupta, Arun Mukherjee, Satish Bahadur, Samik Banerjee, Bal Krishan Malviya, Alopi
Verma, Anand Shankar and Habib 'I‘anveer as main speakers.

Exhibition——
In 1984, Roopkatha
Allahabad.

organised a theatre

exhibition

on

Drama Movement in

Felicitations—
From time to time Roopkatha Felicitated various theatre activists of India for their

contributions towards Indian Drama movement namely S/Sri Upendra Nath Ask (Allahabad),
Arun Mukerjee (Calcutta), Habib 'I‘anveer (Delhi), Rudra Prasad, Sengupta (Calcutta),
Late

A. C.

Banerjee (Allahabad),

Smt. Swatilikha Sengupta

and Smt.

Usha Ganguli

(both Calcutta).

_

Theatre Festivals—

Another remarkable achievement of ‘Roopkatha was the holding "of theatre festivals in
Allahabad in the years 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1989.

In 1984 Festival besides Roopkatha, local teams viz, Allahabad Artistes Association,
Campus theatre and Allahabad sports and cultu ral association also participated.
In 1985 Roopkatha invited Padatik Calcutta to stage ‘Panchi Aise Aatey
‘Jan Shatru’ under the direction of Sri Shyamanand Jalan.

In 1986 the drama festival metamorphosed

Hain’ and

to multilingual from bilingual.

Smt.

Shaonli Mitra staged her popular play 'Nath Boti Anath Bat. Theatre Mirror Manipur
staged ‘Karna’ in Manipuri folk under the direction of Shri W. Naba and Shri Habib 'I‘anveer
participated in

the festival with

two

play

‘Hirama Ki Amar Kahani’ and ‘Charan

Dass Chor.’

Shri Arun Mukherjee of Chetna Calcutta innaugurated the festival First theatre
theatre ﬁlm of India ‘Marich Samvad’ was screened which was followed by a lively discussian on the ﬁlm.
discussion session,

Shri Arun Mukherjee, Writer and Director of the play/ﬁlm chaired the

1989 Festival was attended by Gandhar, Calcutta, Padamshree Tijan Bai, Bhilai
Meghdut, Lucknow, Rangakarmee, Calcutta, Gokul Art, Varanasi, R00pkatha Allahabad
Anya Theatre, Calcutta.

