A NOTE ON THE SEAGULL
_
If one goes by the general critical opinion, The Seagull is not one

of Chekhov's better plays. In fact, it is taken to be one of his apprenticeship plays in which he tries to be over-ambitious with his
themes and characters—a rather high—falutin effort at big talk.
Basically, the Seagull is a heavy play, a black comedy of frustrated hopes, unrealized dreams and a longing for change—for the
better or for the worse—from one's present status in life.
A young girl opts out of her love for a budding writer to go in for
experience, maturity and a certain romantic notion of greatness of
an arrived writer. The mature author moves out of a stable relationship to provide her with the twinkle and the consequent frustration. Mme. Arkadina, the mother of the budding writer, is too
occupied in serving herself to really give her son the encourage—
ment he needs to get over the loss of his young love to his mother's
lover.
Chekhov's tragi—comedies are of the stuff life is basically made
of. There is little to laugh about in Chekhov's plays. Yet Chekhov
insists on calling them comedies. Perhaps he found the longing for
change and betterment of his provincially trapped characters comic
in conception, or the foregone frustration of such an adventure
somewhat comic, or perhaps the juxtaposition of the sublime and
the ridiculous.
He knew people didn't quite like Mme. Arkadina's frankness
with 'I‘rigorin or the bitter taste failed hopes left in most of his characters. Since he himself was quite fond of life and was plagued for
long with ill-health, he found in travelling, in new towns and cities

and in new relationships a welcome diversion. One of the last
charitable acts of his doctor was to offer him fizzy champagne at his
death-bed .
Chekhov's Seagull borrows from Ibsen's symbolism, but doesn' t
have the imitated dramatist's precise delineation. Seagull also has
shades of Hamlet in the triangle formed by Mme. Arkadina, her son
and her lover Trigorin. One can also find echoes of Seagull in two of
Rakesh's plays—the obvious one in Lehron Ke Raj Hans and in Adhe
Adhure in the character of Mahendranath.
Otherwise, Seagull has been a good exercise for the Second-Year
students who need to have a strong realistic-naturalistic text to
work with, to find meanings both overt and underlying as a part of
their training. I hope the production has been as enriching an
experience for the students as it has been for its director.

