SYNOPSIS
_
The Seagull (Chayka, 1896). Comedy of frustrated lives. Accompanied by
her lover, the celebrated novelist Trigorin, Mme. Arkadina, a successful

but

aging actress, visits the country estate of her brother Sorin. Her son Konstantin, hoping to impress his mother, arranges with his sweetheart Nina to
stage a symbolist drama he has written, but his mother’s thoughtlessly

mocking comments cause him to suspend the performance and stalk off in
a rage. Nina, introduced to 'I'rigorin, is dazzled by his fame, and in the days

that follow, her relationship with Konstantin cools. Konstantin kills a
seagull and reproachfully lays it at her feet as an ambiguous symbol of his
dashed hopes. 'I'o Nina the killing of the seagull is another example of

Konstantin’s moodiness; to Trigorin it suggests the possibility of a story
about a free-spirited girl who is thoughtlessly destroyed by a man seeking
escape from boredom. In his despair Konstantin does attempt suicide, and
Mme. Arkadina, fearful of losing 'I‘rigorin, abruptly decides to end their

stay in the country. Nina declares her love to 'I‘rigorin, and 'l‘rigorin makes
an ineffectual attempt to break with Mme. Arkadina. Still, when Nina tells

him she is going to Moscow to be an actress, he arranges to meet her.
Two years elapse. Mme. Arkadina and 'I‘rigorin are once more at Sorin’s
estate. Konstantin has published some pieces, but his life is blighted by the

loss of Nina, now an actress in provincial companies. She has brieﬂy been
'I'rigorin’s mistress, but he has returned to Mme. Arkadina. Now, while the
others are at dinner, Nina slips into Konstantin’s study. Incoherent, re-

nouncing her chosen avatar of the seagull, she tells Konstantin of her hard
life and of her struggle to become a great actress. When he begs her to stay
with him, she confesses that she is too devoted to her career. After she has

left, Konstantin destroys his manuscripts and shoots himself, while in the
next room, unaware of what has happened, Mme. Arkadina is playing lotto
with her friends.
_

CHEKHOV: A CHRONOLOGY
Year
1860

Incident
Born

'Platonov' (First Play)

1878
1879

Creation

Arrived in Moscow
for the first time.
'A letter from the Don

1880

Land Owner Stephan Vladihi
rovichan '
(his first tale)

1882

"Ihe Lady of the Manor'
'Late Blooming Flowers'
'On the High Road'

1884

Received Medical Degree
and started new profession.

1887

Elected as member of the

Ivanov

Literary Fund.
Pushkin Prize
Met Stanislavsky and
Danchenko for the first time.

Proposal, The Swan Song.
The Name Day Party

1888

