D i rector’s Note

The Tamasha is a representative folk theatre form of the people of Maharashtra.
lt's theme though built on traditional stories of kings and queens, reaches out to
include a wide spectrum of contemporary social, political and administrative problems,

and provides through the dialogue, on intelligent and aften caustic cornrnentry on
subjects close to the every day life.
The theme of this play revolves around a Hawaldar. who though honest and
efficient in the discharge of his duties, consistently fails to secure promotion.

After being baulked in his efforts to succed through honest means,he learns his lesson
the hard way. Taking recourse to a more practical, albeit questionable stratagem.
he turns the tables on the corrupt kotwal and the stupid king.
The play has a certain immediacy which is universally appealing. Though not
fully developed. the chief figure of the Hawaldar is truly representative of comman
man in contemporary society, and voices his frustrated aspirations and halplessness in
an unjust and inequitable social order.

In the first instance we all spent 15 days togeather, so as to learn how each
other works and to spend time on general acting exercises such as relaxation.
alertness, concentration, improvisation,

observation and emotional memory. Than

we started working on charactor observation. status exercise and

finally group

improvisation. This was a particularly fruitful time for all of us as we could begin from
zero and reasses many of our preconceptions.
Casting the play proved to be a major jolt to the rehearsals, many participants
were disappointed that they were not given roles, but this negativity lasted for
s om e d a ys .

I found the actual rehearsal process most difficult because of my concept of the
production and the manner in which I work. I demand a lot of thought preparations
and innovation from the actors. Work during the rehearsal process clustered around
three objectives; to reach for possibilities. to physicalise and to contribute. The actors
I and Amala looked at all the potentialities of each scene; never making final decisions
but allowing them to evolve. And finally, I tried to encourage continuing contributions
fo ideas f.‘om the cast; 20 creative minds are better than one.

