Fp ic Theatre
Brecht’s concept of theatre is known as Epic Theatre.

Word epic comes

from Aristotle. This turm was ﬁrst used by Director Erwin Piscator to emphasise
the story telling or narrative technique in experimental theatre. Later Brecht took

this term to elaborate his own concept of theatre.

This tu'rm is now exclusively

used to denote Brechtian concept of theatre.
Brecht was a Marxist in the sense that he wanted his spectator to look
around and upon himself critically and objectively.
become an instrument of social change.

He wanted his theatre to

Epic Theatre of Bertolt Brecht—
(a)

It is anti-tradition.

In its attempt to revolutionise the old theatre of the

west, its searches for the un-tragic hero.

(b)

It is anti-illusionistic and frank theatre.

(c)

It endeavours to substitute passionate and emotional acting by a cold
intellectual and unsensational style of acting, which appeals more to the

mind and less to the emotions.

The actor is so trained as to be able to

Show the character in the process of learning. The epic theatre welcomes
shock and does not insulate the spectator for being shocked. The
conventional theatre ultimately comforts by conforming to the over all
philosophical norms. .

(d)

It attempts to infuse a critical aptitude in the audience and provides scope
for intervention of critical intelligence.

(e)

(f)

The Epic Theatre is the product of historical imagination.
the theory of historical inevitability.
It abolishes old distinction between content and form.

(g)

It believes in a relaxed audience.

(h)

The Epic Theatre is gestural, a gesture which interprets the action.
Captions, slides and ﬁlms were the new visual elements used by epic
theatre.

(i)

(j)
(k)

It challenges

The epic theatre is primarily instructive theatre.
Oil, inﬂamation, war, social struggles, The family, the religion, wheat and
market, all became subject matter for Theatrical representations. This
subject matter was hot there in theatre before Brecht.

We see that Brecht’s Epic Theatre aims at instruction and enterainment
and tries to arouse the audience’s capacity to think and act in socio-political

terms.

A M A L A RA l

