Ahoy! Actor alone
t...
dee

gah हैं:
ट्वेचुदुड्डेग्नटा the last few days, having
मैं
I watched two productions,
३.
comprising solo acts, one’s
admiration for Mumbai‘s actors,
goes up even more. Some of that is
reserved for the writers and directors too, who ﬁnd ways of making
the monologue work for an entertainment-seeking audience.
In the last few years, the onearrd two-hander has caught on
because ofthe relative easeofscheduling and logistics. Two or rrrore
actors and it can be a nightmare to
coordinate rehearsal and show
dates. These days, any slightly wellknown theatre actor is busy with
ﬁlms, TV, ads, and web series. If
they still have time to do plays, it’s a
wonder.
Seerna Pahwa did a remarkable
job of converting some of Bhisham
Sahni’s stories into short plays in a
programme titled Bhishmotsav. The
great writer — best known for his
Partition novel Tamas, turned into a
landmark ﬁlm and TV series by
Govind Nihalani — also wrote sorrre
incisive stories. Naseeruddin Shah,
playing the mendicant in Samadhi
Bhai Ramsingh was outstanding —
he is always fabulous on stage and
has also worked with the monologue
form earlier (IsmatAapa Ke Noam,
First Love). The sadhu who is
caught in the web of superstitious
followers is a character ripe for caricature (more so in the era of Radhe
Maa), but Yashpal Sharma’s school
teacher in 001; was a delight to
watch. The man dressed in drab
clothes talks of the tediurn of a
teacher's life — particularly the days
when he is an invigilator during
exams. To rrrake boredorrr interest—

ing and ﬁmny for the audience,
without any overacting needs alot of
wor .
in the past there have been quite
a few popular solo plays, but many
did well because they had known
names — like Anupam Kher (Kuchh
Bhi Ho Sakta Hai), Sarita Joshi
(Sakubai),
Ashish
Vidyarthi
D
L '
Ki Dimy), Shabana
Azrni (Broken Images), 'I‘om Alter
(Maulana Azad). Shekhar Sen has
done a series of solo acts, using his
talents as an actor, composer and
singer. Gujarati director Manoj
Shah is enamoured of the monologue and producer Manhar Gadhia
has brought out the Gujarati audiences in droves to watch his Saat
Teri Ekvees and its offshoots, with
good writing and acting as bait.
Rahul da Cunha and his group
Rage saw the potential ofthe monologue when they produced Going
Solo in 1998. He got together with
Vikram Kapadia and Anahita
Uberoi to direct actors like Shernaz
Pete], Jayati Bhatia, Radhika Mittal
and Mahabanoo Mody Kotwal and
opened with an 18-day run. The stories were about life in the city and
used a mix of humour and pathos.
So popular was the production that
a second series of eleven monologues was presented, this time
taking a risk with darker themes
and actors like Darshan Jan'wala
(his piece on road rage is still
remembered), Sohrab Ardeshir and
Zafar Karachiwala
In 2010, a bigger team of writers
and directors collaborated on Rage’s
One On One — a new series of
monologues and duologes in
English and Hindi. Already sure of
the response the production would
get, with directors like Akarsh
Khurana, Rajit Kapur, Arghya
Lahiri, Kunaal Roy Kapoor, Nadir
Khan, Pushan Kripalani and Rahul
da Cunha, writers like Anuvab Pal
(his piece about a bureaucrat was
expanded into a full length play),
Ashok Mishra, Purva Naresh, and
da Cunha himself, actors that
included Anand Tiwari (playing a

Vraiesh Hirjee in One on One 2

lamp post in a hilarious piece), Neil

minister’s relatives to show their

Bhoopalam, Anu Menon, Amit
Mistry', Yashpal Shanna, Rajit
Kapur and others — this time it was
not a major risk.

tickets.
They are slice-of-life pieces that
audiences laugh at because they see

themselves or people they know in
The success of this production the characters on stage. The man
lead to One 012 One 2, a collection of who goes to a funeral and gets a full
eight Hindi and English pieces,
again adiverse group of writers and
directors working together, with a
bunch of actors that rose about the
slightly weaker writing — as compared to the superb line-up in the

blast of bureaucracy, a producer

who has signed a star who starts

dictating the scenes, a bride who
knows she is marrying the wrong
rrran...
Rajit
Kapur,
Neil
Bhoopalam, Sumeet Vyas are actors
earlier version. (What do they say who can work wonders with words.
about competing with your own (Three of the actors from the origi—
success being the toughest!)
nal cast were busy and had been
Watching Vrajesh Hirjee in replaced in the show watched — the
Farhad Sorabjee’s Game, Set (ing) date clashes mentioned above.)
and Match, directed by Rajit Kapur,
This format has all the strengths
made one wonder why this actor needed to appeal to the audience
doesn't do more theatre. (He was looking something enjoyable but
equally excellent in Chinese Cqﬁize). not mindlessly so. For a writer, a
Putting on a perfect American- short piece is perhaps easier to work
Gujarati accent, he brought the on than a full-length play, and
house down with his act as the actors’ dates don’t need tobe coordiambitious guy who wants to make a nated for joint rehearsals. And a

match that will help him set up his director can share of serious subGujarati food franchise in the US. jects without putting off the
He wasn’t expecting what he gets!
audiences. It’s a win—win situation
Gopal Datt is utterly brilliant as
TC Rasbihari in Ashok Misbra's
piece again directed by Kapur, in
which a hapless ticket checker on a
rough North Indian stretch of railway, learns sorne lessons the hard
way. It was his own fault he rues, if
he gets beaten for aSkingthe railway

all round.

Deepa Gahlot is an award'winnirig film
and theatrc critic and an arts
administrator. She tweets at
@d e epaga h lot

