Twenty Two Years of
,...—
J ”W

Parvatiya Kala Kendra

Parvatiya Kala Kendra was formed in 1968 with a view to promoting the folk forms
of Uttarakhand comprising the Central Himalayan regions of Kumaon and Garhwal—~
the folk forms connected with tho rituals, ceremonies. dances and songs, legends, ballads.
tales, as also the traditional Ramlila (the sole threatrically developed form of Uttarkhand).
The Kendra began slowly by adapting the folk dances and songs of this reigon to the
requirements of contemporary stage, resulting in various choreographic compositions, which

were staged on different occasion in Delhi and other cities of the country, as well as abrod.

FIRST PHASE
The songs & dance ensemble was the first phase of artistic growth of the Kendra extending from 1968 to 1980. A programme of about two hours duration were presented which
projected the complete cultural milieu of the region. The Kendra was cautious from the
very begining to choose

such

a path, that would help

it to

avoid pitfalls

at both the

ends—the pitfall of the so called pure presentations in the name of authenticity which could
only be a crude copy of the original forms on the one hand, or an individualistically
oriented abstract choreography as would have gone beyond the matrix of prevalent f'olk
forms, on the other. This approach helped the Kendra to preserve the vitality of the folk

forms as also to make them stage-worthy. This was also necessitated by the fact that the
Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural needs of a fast growing population of uttrakhand
dwelling in a vast metropolis like Delhi. and what is more important, to a new generation
seeking its roots in its ethnic culture. In a way this was an extension of the work started
by the Lok Kalakar Sangh in Almora, wayback in the fifties.

SECOND PHASE

Notwithstanding the utility and popularity of such ensemble work which presented the
songs and dance only, the Kendra started feeling a strong urge to build an indigeneous theatre,
which could encompass the entire gamut of the life of the hill people of Kumaon and Garhwal,
their aspiration for a better me, a theatre which could reﬂect their problems, as also deepen

their aesthetic sensibility and awareness making them aware of their past the present and the

