future. Such a theatre, we thought would only emerge out of the various
folklore of that region, of which the ballads constituted the strongest and the
Beeing the unwritten records of the life of the prOple, as lived by them for
lap of the Himalayas, they seemed to oﬂ’er a very strong potential for any the

segments of the
ricehest source.
centuries in the
atrical venture.

The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting the folk ballads of
Kumaon & Garhwal to contemporary stage. Rajula—Malushahi was the first attempr of its

kinds. Shri Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely frmiliar with the background culture and folk
traditions of that region, prepared the first script which, however. covered only half of the

ballad. The script was in Kumaoni, and was produced in an operatic form. The first
performance of this production was given in 1980 at Kamani to packed houses.

Encouraged by tremendous reSponse we received, we decided to present the full ballad.
It was produced & presented in 1981. This production was a turning point in the life of the
Parvatiya Kala Kendra. It was remarkable in the sense that for first time a production of

this dimension was mounted capturing the essence of the cultural heritage of the peOple
of Uttarkhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod
Nagpal and V.M. Badola performed in the production alongwith many fresh entrants to theatre

and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directed it. The script,

as of

earlier, was that of Shri Briendra Lal and musical score was that of Mohan Upreti. Since this
event the Kendra did not look back. Every year it has taken up a new ballad of the region
and given it a dramatic form. The wide spectrum of the folklores of the region that have been
covered are given below in the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF' ACTIVITIES
1968

Founded as Registered Society.
Uttarkhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.

1969

Repeat performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.

1969

Uttarkhand Folk Songs and Dances, AlF’ACS Hall. Inaugurated
by Late Smt
'
Gandhi.

1969.197:

Repeat Performances at Rashtratpati Bhawan, Mavla
nkar Hall, Gandhi Darshan
USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditoriun, INT Hall, and
Doordarsan.

1971

1 C.C. R sponsored performances in Sikkim.

l 972-76

Repeat Performances for Delhi- based Utt irkha
nd people at Ramakrishnapuram
Lodhi Colony, Talkatora Stadium. Aiwanc-Gal
ib, Red Fort (Kumaoni Batt'rliori
III-Regiment), Tin Murti Bhawan, Mavlanka
r Hall, TV recording for New h’ear
Programme.

Repeat Performances for Uttarkhand people based
in bombay, Jaipur Kotdwar
Rishi
kesh and Moradabad.

३

’

’

