AAA A A A A A A A A
A
AA A८
८ ८ A A AA A A ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ A A A A A A
८ qr जिस ८ ८ ८
८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८८
A A
A
८
८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८
८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८A A
८
८

Indersabha

.

—A. Fascinating Entertainer '
53;! By NEMICHANDRA JAIN

Amanat's lndersobha written and first staged in Lucknow in the early fifties of the 19th
century, is an instance of a typical deveIOpment of the traditional perfoming arts in north
India, particularly the Hindi-speaking region. Like many other cultural expression here,the

story of Indersabha also has a very mixed and .many-layered source, including
Vikramorvashiyam of Kalidasa and its various versions found in legends, folk tales as
well as the Urdu narrative poems called

Masnavis written in the last century. Similarly,
its dramatic form is a curious amalgam of elements from the theatrical, musical and narrative

genres, like of the region R asleela, Rasak, Rahas, Bhagat, Swang, Knthak, Alha, Dastangoyee
(Storytelling) etc.

I ndersabha, is designed totally as a play for singing and dancing, without almost any
prose dialogue, and has an in-built provision for a preponderance of dance which make it
substantially different from a Swang or Nautanki play. As a result, the musical forms like
'I‘humri, Mori, Dadra, Ghazal and others have been incorpOrated in the text in a manner
more suitable for a Kathak dance recital

than for a dramatic

performance. Even

so,

lndersabha is basically a musical play like many other traditional performing texts all
over the country. But its specific structure follows a performing pattern developed by that
unique royal patron of arts, Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, the ruler of Awadh, who not only wrote
scripts, created music and dance scores for numerous Rahas & other performances, maintained
elaborate establishment for the purpose called Parikhana, but also participated in them
himself along with his queens, concubines and hunderds of dancing girls, permanently

employed for the purpose.

With such emphasis on colourful dance and music, it is not surprising that Indersabha
became very popular in Lucknow when it was written and performed and later in ohter parts

of northern India. Naturally, it was also often in the repertoire of famous Parsi theatrical
compainesf oral most a century. In spite of its flimsy romantic narrative. it is a fascinating.

