INDER SABHA ट्वे रे
(Producer’s Mote).
MoH'AN UPRETI
्भसैश्याश्या ७" r 2'"!

हैम-ममममम 0«emcee छेडी96‘३9 99Q999943-99 श्याक्षिएँझेकुँश्चिमृम

Parvatiya Kala Kendra feels great pleasure in presenting the nearly hundered fifty years
old musical play ’INDER SABHA’ written by one Shri Krishna Bihari Shukla ‘Amanat‘ of
Lucknow. It was first presented by the Nawab of Ava‘dh, Wajid Ali Shah in his ‘Parikhana’
I situated in his famous Lucknow Baradari. 1.12 may: be relevant to ask. as to why the “Pa-rva'tiya-

- Kala Kendra, which has so: far been specialising only in presenting theatrical ' adaptations of
' folk ballads of K umaon and Gerhard, has all of a sudden taken upon itself the onerous
,१ responsibility of persenting this classical musical

piay written in

Urdu, Hindi and other

' non-pahari sub-languages spoken in the Hindi speaking belt of . North India. I have only two
. ' answers to; offeni‘iirstly this play reflects in: ample

measure the composite character एँ of our

great artistic and cultural: traditions, and secondly its presentation style, particularly the
musical mode of dialogues is very" akin है० the Features of' the theatrical traditions prevalent in

Uttarakhand, for instance the Ramieeia. I may also add here that our artists belonging to this.
generatien have greatly been benefited by the experience of encountering the creative blend’ of
३ the classical and - non-eiassical दृ musical. traditions, which constantly occur in the play.

३ Considered from this print of View, I woui’dﬁ prefer to treat it as a Workslmp production.
MUSIC OF I N DER SABHA- I feel this play highlights the importance ' of music of

theatrical productions, and deserves special mention. One really is strvck by the imagination
of the playwright who chose to incorporate and use various musical forms, both classical and
non-classical, as theatrical idoimto convey the story, which by itself is otherwise very thin,

and one dimensional There are no prose dialogues, except for recitational passages occuring at
and there. There is no scope f'or intense dramatic charcterlsation. The story is very simple. In
fact it is the continuation of the ancient l’umrava-Urvashi myth. Sabza Pari (Urvashi) f'alls

