{A

.

.

.

८८

. 15/ An art1stICJoum€Y
f

Payel Sengupta
he concert organized at Nazrul Mancha was not only
the 50th birthday celebration of the tabla maestro,
Subhankar Banerjee; the Kajalrekha Musical Foundation also aided a social cause by supporting physically-challenged, less privileged students of music and providing medical assistance to them as well. The concert featured the ﬂute
of Hariprasad Chaurasia (picture, top) and the santoor of
Shiv Kumar Sharma (picture, bottom), and added a fragrance
of nostalgia to the city.
Hariprasad Chaurasia took the stage and commenced
with the beautiful Raga Y'aman. His alaap ﬂourished with
the traditional rendition of the keynotes, followed byjor and
jhala. The audience is well-acquainted with the playing style
of the senior artist, and expected a more melodious performance from him. It would have been better if the bandishi style
of thejor andjhala had been avoided. The artist continued

‘‘ i

"-1

. ' ’३ 'सै'- w, I

7»

.n-i H.

n

1'

. r - के
. = /

३^

.

है,

है

the raga with a gut of matta tala (a cycle of nine beats), and
explored its jovial essence through vistaars and taans, especially in the middle and upper octaves. However; the length
could have been shortened. Hariprasad Chaurasia also played
a gat in drut teentaal and delighted the audience with his
spontaneity. He concluded his segment of the concert with a
kirtan dhun.
The santoor of Shiv Kumar Sharma proliferated the sweet
melody of the Raga Bageshwari (popularly known as Bage—
shree). It is difﬁcult to weave the structure of the alaap on an
instrument like the santoor, but he carefully setthe mood
with an extensivejor andjhala. His rendition became a little
repetitive, as he distinctly took time in the lower and middle
octaves. He played a gatin madhyalayjhanptaal, and his
taankari in different paces were arresting along with the vistaars. This was followed by a gutin drut‘teentaal; some uni—
que touches made the ambience enjoyable. The rhythmic mo~ ments with the tabla enchanted the audience. Subhankar
Banerjee (pictured with the artists) ably accompanied the
artists of the evening and created a captivating mood. A documentary ﬁlm on the musical and personallife of Shubhankar
Banerjee was also a part of the concert, which made the artistic journey come alive on stage.
/

