s3
"v”
\5 r
QVwSAADAT HASAN MAN'I‘O
Born 11 May 1912, Manto was probably the most controversial and misunderstood writer of all times.
Having spent a life of 43 years, mostly among such people like pimps, prostitutes, the man on the street
as well as noted celebrities of his times, Manto breathed his last on 18 January 1955 in Lahore. Manto

spent his best years in Bombay writing stories and scripts for films. He used to say — “my stories don’t
come from my brain, they jump out of my pocket.” A brief stint of 19 months with AIR, Delhi saw him
३ in close company with men of literature there. His radio drama Jebkatra (the pickpocket) was probably
broadcast from every radio station during that time. After long belated recognition nearly 50 years after
his death SAADAT HASAN MANTO has by now come into his own, with his short stories being
translated and dramatized in several Indian languages simultaneously. Rangakarmee in its Manto
trilogy, proposes to offer viewers a comprehensive view of the rich humanist creativity that Manto
represented, in the form of a series of three collages. The first was
made out of three stories—'Kali Shalwar', 'Licence' and
'Hﬁtak'—ruthlessly realistic portrayals of life in the lower f“depths, with humanity surfacing/asserting in the strangest
‘\?
expressions more often than not in a rnelange of
pathos and triumph; produced in 2004
titled Badnam Manto.

The second collage centred on
Manto’s better known Partition
stories 'Khol Do', 'Toba Tek Singh',

born out of the pain that Manto carried with him
in his own experience of exile — born in the
Indian part of Punjab, he fell in love with Bombay,
but died in Lahore, a broken man in extreme
poverty and ill health caused by heavy drinking.
Stories in this collage called Sarhad Paar
Manto interwoven the two stories
with snippets from his Siyah
/
Hashye or black fringes. The third
collage Manto Aur Manto focuses भु
on Manto the man and writer.
In an epitaph written a year
before his death he wrote :

Here lies Saadat Hasan Manta.
With him lie
Buried all the arts and mysteries of
short story writing.
Under tons of earth he lies,
I

wondering
If he is a greater short story
writer than God.

‘

I

,1

mama राती-यय---, Ba Wag.

