Tlll‘] XHI) Repertory was thrilled in ltlti—lti") on an experimental hasis hy ll. Alkali.
In the he‘u‘iuuiu;r it eonsisted of only four
aetors drawn from graduates of wa‘l). ( )iu
Shiy‘puri. Mauohar Singh. l 'ttara liaokai‘.
Surekha .‘s'ikri. -I.X. Kaushal and Itam
Hopal Italiaj are souie ot‘ the eminent
theatre personalities assoeiated with the
He] Wit 1 try t wer the yea rs.

6

हूँism~ .

The Repertory has produeed a Variety of
plays ranging from the stylized musieals
t o realist ie eoutemporary works of Indian
drama to translations and adaptations of
foreign language plays. Eminent direetors
of national and international repute t'rom

I. ३८।

“is, 3५.

.9

it.

llepertoiy has performed over hundred
and twenty plays by se\‘ellty playwright s
and has worked with more than fifty
direetors. The repertory tours extensively
inside the eonntry and has made several
sueeesst'ul trips to (lei-many. I’olaud.
liritaiu. Nepal and Mauritius. In 1991.
the Repertory setup a permanent
exhihitiou [fr/Hg Til/HI. eousistiug‘ of
photographs, set- models. posters etc. of
the Repertory produetions.

ltA-IA Ki Itasoi is a hilarious eomedy in

is invisible. The Jinn: wants the king to

fire seeues. I 'uahle to find enough meat.

he brought to book as he is the one

the King‘s eook kills a traveller. who is also

ultimately responsible for his killing:

the Storyteller and (-ooks his meat for the

In the meanwhile the cook and the

King. King: likes it and orders the same

huteher eoutiuue to kill iuuoeeut eitizeus

food everyday. ( ‘ity guards eatehes the

to feed the King. P*ople eomplaiut to the

eook with the huteliers knife and (१३038-

Prime Minister hut he too is killed. The

examines him.

Atmu now finds a vaeaut body, that of the

The ilfmu of the storyteller wanders

Prime Minister, and et't'eetively inteiyeues

without salvation. as his last rites are not

i 1 1 the situation.

performed. It is present in the scenes but

. , डू रे

within the eouutry and ahroad have
worked with the tepertory ( ‘ompauy.

