DEtl-ll NATYA SANGH
THE waiiKSiiop mm

It was for the first time that the Delhi Natya Sangh orgaised a training
workshop for the practicing directors from the member groups. Six week
long workshop started on the 31st August '8-1 and concluded on16_th
october '81. There were 18 participants _including some from univerSIty
groups. Some of them had only enthuSIams to back them. There were

others who had already undergone training at the film and T.V. Institute,
Pune. Senior Students of the Natya Institute of Choreography also
joined
the workshop but could not continue due to other prior engagement.
The workshop traced the origin of drama from ditherambic and shamanistic rites and its gradual growth through the centuries. The emergence Of
the director, its important in the modern theatre, inter-relations of various

performing and . plastic arts were also discussed. Complete DFOdUCt'On
process, step by step, right from the selection of play, casting:
trY'OUtS
first rehearsal to the final performance were gone through, Various styles
of prodctions including the arena style were discussed. All the lectures
were illustrated with practicar demonstrations. SpeCially the handling of
actorson stage, handling of group scenes, and other such proble
ms were
practically tried out,

Role of the director, its relations with other designers, man—ma
nager'nent,
stage management, business management and public relations were
also
discussed threadbare.

SAGINA lVlEHTO
Badal Sircar's celebrated play has been taken
up as a follow up of the
workshop. This play provides sample oppor
tunity for any director to tack-

le production problems. It employee vario
us acting styles, both realistic
epic and ritualistic. It has area lighting. It
has group scenes. Moreover
it has a, very effective message potential.

It deals with the socio-econo-

mic fabric of our working Class and their
exploitation by various agencies
who overtly or covertly use them to
further their own cause. Sag ina is a
powerful symbol of the working class
of this country and is an exciting
theetra also.

This play has .been taken up as a
prod

are partiCIpating are directors of thei uction exercise and most of those
r own right. They have been experie—
ncing all the practical difficulties
of staging this play including non
availabllkgliiv Of actors, Old members deserting at
the last minute and other such
pro ems.

a

SU CeSS .

