rnanity; if he is too literal, he gains the commonplace.

tury, are we more timid and more constipated in the

and loses the true meaning. Here are great problems,

ambition and scope of our thinking than the Eliza-

related to technique, imagination, and living experience that have to be solved in creating an ensemble.

bet han Q

Eventually, we want to have actors who know with

When we perform the classics, we know that their
deepest reality will never speak for itself. Our efforts

such certainty that there is no contradiction between
the heightened and the real that they can slide e f‘fort-

through us. I think our responsibility toward the

lessly between the gears of verse and prose, follow—

modern drama is to see that the reality of everyday

ing the modulations of the text.
We must move the productions and the settings

life will not speak for itself either. We can record it,

away from all that played so vital a part in the postwar Stratford renaissance—away from romance, away
from fantasy, away from decoration. Then they were
necessary for shaking the ugliness and the boredom

off these well-worn texts. Now we rnttst look beyond
an outer liveliness to an inner one. Outer splendor
can be exciting but has little relation with modern
life: on the inside lie themes and issues, rituals and

conﬂicts which are as valid as ever. Any time the
Shakespearean meaning is caught, it is “real" and so

contemporary.
In the same way. in a country that has become
very theatre-conscimls. and which happens also to
possess such a fantastic heritage, one question must

and our technique are to make them speak clearly

film it. jot it down, but we will be far from catching
its nature. We see that Shakespeare in his day found

the answer in his verse and prose structure related to
the peculiar freedom of the Elizabethan stage. This
can teach us something, and it is no coincidence that

the modern theatre is moving toward open stages and
is using surrealism of behavior in the place of verse
as a technique for cracking open surface appearances.
Our great opportunity and our challenge in Stratford
and London is to endeavor to relate our work on
Shakespeare and our work on modern plays to the
search for a new style—a dreadful word, I would prefer to say anti-style— which would enable dramatists
to synthesize the self-contained achievements of the
Theatre of the Absurd, the epic theatre and the natu-

be why no present-day English dramatist approaches

ralistic theatre. This is where our thinking must go

the beginnings of Shakespearean power and freedom. Why. we must ask in the mid-twentieth cen—

and where our experiments must thrust.
l’ e t e r Brook (1003)

