Anuradha Kapur : Professor of Acting and Direction at the National School of
Drama, New Delhi and has taught and directed in India and abroad; among her productions
are a verSion of Mohamrned Hadi Ruswa’s Umrao, Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet,
Brecht’s The Job, Sundari: an Actor Prepares, a play based on the life of Jaishankar
Sundari, the legendary Gujarati female impersonator, Ibsen’s Wild Duck; and most recently
Kuo Pao Kun’s Lao Jin: the Ninth Born adapted into Hindi by Geetanjali Shree and
designed by Nilima Sheikh. Most of her works are collaboratory projects with visual
artists, video ﬁlmmakers, writers and musicians.

Ashok Dhawan : Practicing architect and a visiting professor in School of Planning
and Architecture. Involved in theatre since 1955, throughout school and college days,
both on and off stage. Designed and participated in a number of productions of Moliere
and Brecht. While reading for his architecture degree at Yale University, Ashok Dhawan
was actively associated with the Yale School of Drama.

Abhilash Pillai : Studied theatre Arts at the University of Calicut and then went
on to receive a postgraduate diploma in Design and Direction from the National School
of Drama, New Delhi, and diploma in theatre production from R.A.D.A., London in
1998. Abhilash Pillai has designed and directed many plays both in India and abroad.

Goutam Majumdar : Post Graduate Diploma from National School of Drama in
Design and Direction (1997) and Graduation in Dramatic Arts (Acting) from Rabindra

Bharati University. From 1993 to 1994 Mime Instructor of Jogesh Mime Academy,
Calcutta and currently a regular mime Judge of All India University Association. Has
conducted many theatre workshops and designed and directed a number of plays in India
and abroad.

Anshu Arora Sen : Graduated from St. Stephen's College in English (Hons)
(1994) and then went on to do Fashion Designing course from N.I.F.T. in 1997. Anshu
Sen has already made her mark in the fashin industry and has also designed costumes for
Theatre.

Gille Chuyen : Trained in Modern Jazz, Ballroom, Southern French folk dance
and contemporary dance. Gille Chuyen learnt Chhau from Shiiram Bharatiya Kala Kendra
and has also worked with artists like Navtez Johar and Shovana Narayan. Gille Chuyen
has taught and performed in theatre shows in India and abroad.

