NOTES AND THOUGHTS

.

"We aren't the same people who sat down to dinner," observes Sheila Birling as the

tangled tale surrounding a young woman's death unfolds and the engagement ceremony of Sheila
and Gerald turns dark. The Birlings, an upper middle class couple, their children Sheila and Eric,
Sheila's fiance, Gerald, are each questioned regarding their connections with the suicide of a
young working class woman by Inspector Goole who comes calling at their bourgeois home.
Goole grills each character, ferrets out the clues to reveal their roles in the suicide, and pieces
together the puzzle, ﬁnally to apportion blame and ﬁnd some sort of solution.
In this version of J.B. Priestley's moral thriller if one might call it that, we have taken
the liberty of adding two characters, Eileen, another working class girl, and Timmy, the Birling's
dog, both of whom emerged while we were improvising the play. Eileen is placed in the
performance to extend the effects of a working class suicide. Tim the playful and sometimes
fierce dog, works to animate the usual accoutrements of a bourgeois home.

In terms of the style, we have attempted to summon the atmosphere ofﬁlm noir --- lowkey, Chiaroscuro lighting; night scenes, the use of shadow to comment on a character's psychology
or a narrative situation, hinting at an initially unrevealed dark side, of being trapped, of
claustrophobia, all of which are expressed by shadowy grids and an explicitly black and white
set. Most of the work on stage in terms of characterization, objects, and the physical idiom of
performance emerged through improvisations, exercises and discussions that engaged the students
throughout the rehearsal process.

I am very grateful that Ashok Dhawan, the distinguished architect, agreed to be part of
this project, and found the time to work out the design areas with the III year designers. His
reading of space has been very exciting for us because it has helped to radically reorganize our
settled notions of performance conventions. It has opened many doors and allowed us to modify
in theatrical terms the meanings of 'set' and 'architecture'.

I am very happy that Abhilash Pillai collaborated with'Ashok on various aspects of the
visual style and also worked with the design students to set them off on numerous visual
explorations. Goutam Majumdar, along with plotting the lights, has been part of the design team
that has together rendered the visual vocabulary of the play. Indeed the process of costuming the
characters has also followed this collaboratory mode where Anshu Arora Sen worked on each
detail along with students. I am very happy indeed that Anshu agreed to be part of this
version
of Priestley. Sharna Chowdhury has scripted the words for Eileen and has kept an eye
on some
of the textual transformations that have occurred during rehearsal and I am most grateful
for her
help and involvement. And finally I am grateful to Arjun Sen for having composed
the closing
music of the play.
Anu rad/1a Kapu r

