DETECTIVE STORIES
(Excerpted from Encarta Encyclopedia 99)
The detective story, often called a “whodunit” evolved early in the 20th Century, from

stories about detectives in which the reader was not a participant but a witness, so to speak,
looking over the detective’s shoulder.
The impact of Sherlock Holmes popularized the detective story and brought it to its
present form. From the time of Conan Doyle on, writers have sought to develop detective heroes
who echoed both Holmes’s unique character and his ornniscience. The English writer GK.
Chesterton, in the early years of the 20th century, developed the character of Father Brown, a
priest-detective. In 1920, with the advent of what may be called the golden age of the detective
story, the English writer Agatha Christie introduced her hero, Hercule Poirot, a dapper Belgian
detective who actively employed the “little gray (brain) cells” in the solution of crimes. In the
United States, the Ellery Queen series was begun, and SS. Van Dine (pseudonym of Willard
Huntington Wright) wrote about the dilettante detective Philo Vance. Meanwhile another American
writer, Earl Derr Bigger, was creating his famed Chinese detective, Charlie Chan. Other authors
who emerged in the 1930s are the American Rex Stout with his famous gourmet detective, Nero
Wolfe, and the scholarly English writer Dorothy Sayers, whose detective hero was an aristocrat,
Lord Peter Wimsey. Conan Doyle’s work also bred a new awareness among writers of the genre
and determinedness to distinguish it from other crime and mystery writing; it was felt that the
emphasis of detective ﬁction should be placed on puzzles rather than crime. During the 1930s,
authors, in their efforts to outwit the reader began to concoct elaborate, highly ingenious puzzles,
which aimed to produce as the murderer the least likely of all suspects —- a game in which Agatha
Christie excelled. Meanwhile, in the United States during the 1920, another kind of detective
story was emerging. This was shaped by the pulp magazines of the time (notably Black Mask),
which wanted hard—hitting detective heroes and clipped, tough prose. In these “hard-boiled”
private-eye novels, sleuths worked for money instead of intellectual fun and murder took place
in gutters rather than in drawing rooms.

Then, in the early 1950s, a trend away from the sex-and-sadism school and away from
the private—eye tale in general, developed. The police novel or “police procedural” was born—
stories about how real police detectives go about solving real crimes. As did its predecessors, the
“procedural” obeys the rules of the detective story. The difference is that the reader consorts, not
with geniuses, but with fallible, ordinary people, specially trained in detection, operating out of
police stations. The most prominent writers in this ﬁeld are John Creasey, writing under the
pseudonym J.J. Marric, with his tales of Gideon of Scotland Yard; Salvatore Lombino, who also
writes under the name Evan Hunter, using Ed McBain as his pseudonym for his 87th Precinct
series; and Dorothy Uhnak, once a NewYork transit policewoman herself, who has broken
through the male bastion with her series featuring a policewoman, Christie Opara.

