be killed — how the thought of killing him arises in Sylvia Sidney’s mind and connects itself with
the carving knife she uses when they sit down to dinner. But the sympathy of the audience has
to be kept with Sylvia Sidney; it must be clear that Verloc’s death, ﬁnally, is an accident. So, as
she serves at the table, you see her unconsciously serving vegetables with the carving knife, as
though her hand were keeping hold of the knife of its own accord. The camera cuts from her
hand to her eyes and back to her hand; then back to her eyes as she suddenly becomes aware
of the knife making its error. Then to a normal shot — the man unconcernedly eating; then back
to the hand holding the knife. In an older style of acting Sylvia would have had to show the
audience what was passing in her mind by exaggerated facial expression. But people today in
real life often don’t show their feelings in their faces: so the ﬁlm treatment showed the audience
her mind through her hand, through its unconscious grasp on the knife. Now the camera moves
again to Verloc — back to the knife — back again to his face. You see him seeing the knife,
realising its implication. The tension between the two is built up with the knife as its focus.
So you gradually build up the psychological situation, piece by piece, using the camera
to emphasize ﬁrst one detail, then another. The point is to draw the audience right inside the
situation instead of leaving them to watch it from outside, from a distance. And you can do this
only by breaking the action up into details and cutting from one to the other, so that each detail
is forced in turn on the attention of the audience and reveals its psychological meaning.
One way of using the camera to give emphasis is the reaction shot. By the reaction shot
I mean any close-up, which illustrates an event by showing instantly the reaction to it of a person
or a group. The door opens for someone to come in, and before showing who it is you cut to
the expressions of the persons already in the room. Or, while one person is talking, you keep
your camera on someone else who is listening. This over—running of one person’s image with
another person’s voice is a method peculiar to the talkies, it is one of the devices which help the
talkies to tell a story faster than a silent film could tell it, and faster than it could be told on the
stage.

The film always has to deal in exaggerations. Its methods reﬂect the simple contrasts of
black and while photography. One advantage of colour is that it would give you more intermediate
shades. I should never want to ﬁll the screen with colour. It ought to be used economically — to
put new words into the screen’s language when there’s need for them.

I know there are critics who ask why lately I have made only thrillers. Part of the answer
is that I am out to get the best stories I can which will suit the ﬁlm medium. I choose crime
stories because that is the kind of story I can write, or help to write, myself — the kind of story
I can turn most easily into a successful ﬁlm.
I think public taste is turning to like comedy and drama more mixed up and this is another
move away from the conventions of the stage. In a play your divisions are much more rigid; you
have a scene in one key—then curtain, and after an interval another scene starts. In a ﬁlm you
keep your whole action ﬂowing; you can have comedy and drama running together and weave
them in and out. Audiences are much readier now than they used to be for sudden changes of
mood and this means more freedom for a director. The art of directing for the commercial market
is to know just how far you can go.

