'

JAZZ

from Encarta Encyclopedia 99 & additions by Bhaskar Chandravarkar
Jazz, a type of music developed by black Americans about 1900 and possessing an
identiﬁable history and describable stylistic evolution. Jazz music has borrowed from black folk
music, and popular music has borrowed from jazz, but these three kinds of music remain distinct
and should not be confused with one another.
Jazz is rooted in the mingled musical traditions of American blacks. These include traits
surviving from West African music; black folk music forms developed in the New World;
European popular and light classical music of the 18th and 19‘h centuries; and later popular music
forms influenced by black music or produced by black composers. Among the African survivals
are vocal styles that include great freedom of vocal colour; a tradition of improvisation; call—and—
response patterns; and rhythmic complexity — both syncopation of individual melodic lines and
conﬂicting rhythms played by different members of an ensemble. Other Afro-American music
forms include ﬁeld hollers, rowing chants, lullabies, and later, spirituals and blues.

Around the turn of the 20‘h century the earliest fully documented jazz style emerged,
centered in New Orleans, Louisiana. In this style the comet or trumpet carried the melody, the
clarinet played ﬂorid countermelodies, and the trombone played rhythmic slides and sounded the
root notes of chords or simple harmony. Below this basic trio the tuba or string bass provided
a bass line and drums the rhythmic accompaniment. Exuberance and volume were more important
than ﬁnesse, and improvisation was focused on the ensemble sound.

The first true virtuoso soloist of jazz, Louis Armstrong was a dazzling irnproviser,
technically, emotionally, and intellectually. He changed the format of jazz by bringing the soloist
to the forefront, and in his recording groups, the Hot Five and the Hot Seven, demonstrated that

jazz improvisation could go far beyond simply ornarnenting the melody — he created new melodies
based on the chords of the initial tune. He also set standards for all later jazz singers, not only
by the way he altered the words and melodies of songs but also by improvising without
words,
like an instrument (scat singing).

For jazz the 19203 was a decade of great experimentation and discovery. Many
New
Orleans musicians, including Armstrong, migrated to Chicago inﬂuencing local
musicians and
stimulating the evolution of the Chicago style — derived from the New
Orleans style but
emphasizing soloists, often adding saxophone to the instrumentation,
and usually producing
tenser rhythms and more complicated textures. Many Chicago musicia
ns eventually settled in
New York, another major center for jazz in the 1920s.

Another vehicle for jazz developments in the 19205 was piano music.
The Harlem district
of New York became the centre of a highly technical, hard-driving
solo style known as stride
piano. A second piano style to develop in the 19208 was boogie
-woogie. A form of blues played
on the piano, it consists of a short, sharply accented bass
pattern played over and over by the
left hand while the right hand plays freely, using a varie
ty of rhythms. Boogie-woogie became
especially popular in the 19303 and 408.

Also during the 1920, large groups of jazz musicians
began to play together, after the
model of soc1ety dance hands, forming the so-called
big hands that became so popular in the

