M A X MU ELL E R B H A V A N
THE INDO — GERMAN CULTURAL CENTRE, HYDERABAD,
is one of the eight Indian branches of the Goethe-Institute, Munich, a non-political
and non-commercial association, which aims at promoting mutual understanding of different
cultures and civilizations, especially to encourage the exchange of intellectual and artistic
achievements between India and Germany. For this purpose, Max Mueller Bhavan sponsors
both Indian and German Cultural Programmes : Filrnshows, Lectures and Discussions, Exhibitions, Theatre Performances, Concerts etc.

'-

Mernbers of Max Mueller Bhavan get free admission to all these functions.
jees : Rs. 25 double, Rs. 15 single, Rs. 7—50 for students yearly.

Membership

The Language Department of Max Mueller Bhavan offers morning and evening classes
in German, rapid and ordinary courses for beginners and advanced students. Specially trained
teachers are teaching German as it is spoken and written today in Germany with the latest
methods for language teaching.
Classes are held in Hyderabad in our own premises, at Milton Academy, Clock
Tower, Sarojini Devi Road, Secunderabad, at Bharat Heavy Electi‘icals, Ramachandrapuram,

and at Andhra University, Waltair.
Classes are held in the mornings from 8—9 am. and evenings from 5—8-30 p.m.
,
Tuition fee for one semester (five month) is Rs. 54 which is payable in ttvo instal-

ments :

Rs. 36 at the time of admission and Rs. 18 three months

thereafter.

For the

G I Rapid Course tuition fee is Rs. 108 payable in two equal instalments.
New students have also to pay an admission fee of Rs. 17.
_
Textbooks and glossaries for beginners are free. Books (textbooks, dictionaries etc.)
required for the higher classes are sold to our students with a reduction of 50% of the original
price.
_
Students who get lst Class in the ﬁnal‘ examination are exempted from paying fees
for the next semester. If their resultr’is equally good in that semester, their freeship continues.
On passing the examination after each course, successful candidates will be given
certiﬁcates by the Goethe-Institute, Munich.
*
Study-Groups are conducted by one of our teachers for reading scientiﬁc and literary
texts and discussions ; they can be joined by all students and ex-students having suﬂ‘icient knowledge of German. No fees will be charged.
( Continued on third cover page )

