,
‘
,
T
DIRECTORS NO ES

क्या

lndian Theatre

Traditional lndian theatre is a simple theatre. It is a theatre of
simple but richly evocative means. It takes a bare stage, a few
stools and properties, and allows its actors/dancers to create a
world of grace, fantasy, terror, and touching sentiment. It
attempts to evoke in the audience rasas or sentiments.

lndian theatre is complex while it is simple. On its bare
platform it brings before the audience a tremendous variety of
characters, from the lowly workman to the highest king, and
even brings before us the gods themselves—all costumed in a
rich tapestry of garments with faces made-up in symbolic
tones. The actor’s art is equally complex and evocative—it is
an art codified according to set hand and facial gestures, each
designed to produce the desired emotion in the audience.
Add to the bare stage and complex costurning, make-up,
and acting, Indian music and dance, and you have a theatrical
tradition which in modern Western theatre is known as ‘ ‘total ' ’
theatre.

Many of these highly conventionalized traditions are recorded in the Nafyasastra, the ancient Indian treatise on
drarnaturgy. Throughout India today this ancient heritage continues to delight audiences by bringing to life on stage both the
old Sanskrit dramas written as early as the 4th century AD.
and newer plays which draw their stories from the great lndian
epics, the Ramayana and Mahabharata.
Kerala’s Dramatic Tradition

Each geographical region in India historically developed .its ३
own theatrical variation in dance, dance-drama, or dramatic

forms based on both the classical heritage of the Natyasastra “
. and its own regional folk performance traditions. Kerala, the

modern state in southwest India, possesses a wealth of theatrical forms ranging from ritual dance to highly refined dramatic
and dance-drama forms. In Kerala today Sanskrit dramas are

still performed. Kutiyaftam, the name for Kerala’s Sanskrit
dramatic tradition, originated in approximately the 7th century
A.D., and continues to be performed in Kerala's temple
theatres. Kufiyaltam is a highly complex dramatic form with
elaborate systems of chanting/reciting of the Sanskrit dramas,
combined with the use of hand and facial gestures based on
the Nalyasaslra which are used to interpret the text. A single
play, such as SAKUNTALA, would traditionally take 36 to 40
days to perform, (each day's performance lasting three to five
hours). One of Kufiyattam’s most characteristic features is the
place given to the Vidusaka or clown character, most often
written into the original Sanskrit dramas as the King’s (or
hero’s) most trusted companion and advisor. The comic
character in Kerala holds the stage for several nights on his
own and serves as an intermediary between the audience and
noble characters p‘eopling the stage. The Vidusalra is given
complete freedom on stage to comment on current social or

political Circumstances, often delighting Kerala audiences with
his sharp wit and incisive social commentary. (The Vidusalra
will appear in our production 0f SAKUNTALA as Madhavya.
King Dushayanta's trusted friend and advisor).
Kutiyattam’s sister form of d ance—d rarn a is Kathalrali (story
play). Kathakali developed during the 17th century and draws
from Kutiyattam its own highly complex system of facial and
hand gestures. Kathalrali is a rigorous dance—drama‘ln which
the actor never speaks, the text being sung by narrators while
the actor dances/acts the role through complex choreography,
facial and hand gestures. Kathalrali plays emphasize the heroic

and erotic sentiments, although all nine races are important in
the course of most performances. The emphasis upon the
heroic ,rasa is in part a result of Kerala’s martial heritage. The
. first actors were soldiers trained in Kalarlppayatf, a rigorous
physical and weapons training system required of all martial
caste boys (Nairs) from the age of seven.

