DIRECTOR '8 NOTES continued from page 2

GUEST ARTISTS

Today’s Production

This production of SAKUNTALA is an attempt to capture the
essence of traditional Indian theatre. The set design "is based
upon Kutiyattam Sanskrit drama‘s temple stage, a set arch itectural unit within the temple compound. The costume designs
are based upon Kutiyaltam and Kathakali models, adapted for
this production.
Selected dances, choreography, and hand/facial gestures
used in Kathakali have also been adapted for the performance.
Sanskrit drama, outside of Kerala at least, did not allow
violence on stage. Our adaptation and production, following
South Indian conventions, has brought onto the stage several
scenes traditionally excluded.

As a form of ‘ ‘total ’ ’ theatre, we have attempted to combine
dance, music, and acting Into a unified whole which can tell
Kalidasa’s tale of love.

Kalidasa’s SAKUNTALA
Kalidasa’s SAKUNTALA was most likely written In the 4th
century A. D. Little is known of the playwright. But SAKUNTALA has been the touchstone by which all Sanskrit drama has
been judged in India since its composition. It first became
known to English speaking readers through Sir William Jones’
4789 translation. Since then it has been rendered in numerous
translations and has received many productions in the English
speaking world from traditional performances, to experiments
such as those of Jerzy Grotowski in Poland during the 1960’s.
Kalidasa adapted the story from the Mahabharata, one of
Ind ia’s great epics. He radically altered the original tale, transforming the story of two rather pedantic and selfish lovers, into
a story which follows love from its first blossom in physical
passion, through'love deepened by separation and loss, to the '
blissful reunion of an eternal bond between Sakuntala and King
Dushayanta built upon their years of pain and trial.

Phillip Zarrilli

,3,,,

M P Sankaran Namboodiri teaches Kathakali dance-drama
at the Kerala Kalamandalam, the State Arts School in Kerala,
South India. He is also an active performer with the Kalamandalarn Company and has performed throughout the world. His
participation in the Asian Performing Arts Summer Institute
was made possible through -the generosity of Mr. Samuel
Scdpps.

Jan Zeitlin studied Kathakali for three years in Kerala before
returning to Los Angeles in 1978. She Is currently teaching
both Kathakali and Mohiniattam and often performs in the Los
Angeles area.

MEDIA PRODUCTION The complete color videotape of SAKUNTALA is being pro—
duced by UCLA’s Media Production, a division of the Office of
Instructional Development. This complete media production
will be available for educational purposes. Mr. Bernie Mitchell,
producer and director, deserves special thanks for his cooperation with the Department of Theater Arts and the director
throughout the rehearsal and production period.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
_'This production would not have been possible without the
special cooperation of the Asian Performing Arts Summer
3 Institute under the leadership of Judy Susilo of the UCLA
Department of Dance. Special thanks are also due to Mel

Helstien of the "Department of Theater Arts and Nazir Jairaz~ bhoy of the Department of Music for their cooperation and
suggestions in developing the production.

