GLOSSARY

Compiled by Dura Temple Mich/

While the adaptation and production are by no, means to be a
museum piece, your understanding of the poetic images and
mythology referred to in the play may be helped by a brief
familiarity with some key words used in the adaptation.
Aditi Mother of the secondary gods and of the twelve
months.
arlra also called sun tree-a large shrub.
asalra tree with blossoms of scarlet, orange, or yellow.
banyon a tree considered sacred.
Brahman priest; the highest cast (all Brahmans wear a
sacred thread across the left shoulder).

chakravaka

a water bird thought doomed to be separated

from its mate each night, but reunited each morning.
Chandra God of the moon.
Crown of Gold a mountain in the sacred range of the
Himalayas—it is the abode of Kavera, the God of Riches.
Dushayanta King whose empire touches the four seas (horizons). He is of the warrior caste—one purpose of which is to
protect the priestly caste.
fire fire is considered sacred. Three sacrificial fires were
originally brought to earth by the Goddess Urvasi, wife of
Puru .
fisherman because of the Hindu aversion to eating flesh,
butchers and fishermen were among the lower echelons of
society in ancient India.
Ghandarva marriage one of the eight lawful forms of marriage, formed through a simple pledge between two equally
devoted persons of equivalent castes.
Himalaya Sanskrit translation literal/y: hima (ice /snow)
and alaya (abode) —so the Himalayan range of mountains
are the ‘ ‘ice abode.”
Hindu Triad of Deities the three primary deities include: (1)
Shiva, the destroyer who destroys through death and time;
(2) Brahma, the creator; (3) Vishnu, ' the preserver (and
protector; half-man and half-lion) . There are also secondary
gods of whom Indra is the chief God.
idli Kerala rice cake.

ingudi tree which bears fruit.
८३,८2३ मृ
Isha manifestations of Shiva in eight forms?
jack fruit tree which bears a sweet fruit commonly found in
Kerala .
Kama the god of lo ve . He carried a bow of sugar cane strung
with bees and ‘ ‘shoots ’ ’ lovers (similar to Cupid).
Kalnemi demon with a hundred arms and heads.
Kashyapa Father of the secondary gods and of the twelve
months.

kolrii (aka koil) the Indian cuckoo—messenger of spring. Its
song is considered good look when heard before a journey.
The koki/ leaves her eggs in strange nests and allows them
to be thus ‘ ‘adapted’ ’ by other birds.
lresara a tree with fragrant, ornamental blossoms.
Krishna Father of the God Kama.
kuruvalra a bush with thorns.
kusa grass grass with sharp, pointed blades—used at religious ceremonies.
madhavi blossoming, floral creeper:
masaladosa Kerala “potatoe stew; ’ ’ highly spiced and
wrapped or eaten with a rice bread.
Menalra a water nymph—Sakuntala’s mother.
Palace of the Clouds King Dushayanta’s palace in Hastinapur on the Ganges near Delhi in North Central India.
River Ganges sacred river at Shakravatara.
River Malini a river in the Himalayas beside which Sakuntala was born.
rahita a red carp.
sarvala a water plant that spreads on ponds (often braiding
with lotus).
sambar Kerala’s typical ‘ ‘vegetable stew.’ ’
sirisha sweet blossoms used as ear ornaments.
‘
Somatirtha a shrine in Western India.
saptaparna called the anchor/te’s (or hermit’s) tree.
Spring Festival the vernal equinox-a celebration that honors Krishna and Kama.
sakunta a hard—wood tree which is believed to contain fire.

