r

all his dreams are shattered when Sipahi

5Y N O P 3 | S

tells him that Pradhan’s Brother—in-law
would be the new Kotwal.

The play "Sainya Bhaye Kotwal” is a
satire on the Mismanagement and
corruption prevailing in the ruling class
which was ever there in being. The play

AC T-—|V

is in the tarnasha form of Maharashtra,

the Raia who is quite indiferent towards
the silly things happening right under his
nose, 0 pradhan who takes advantage
of the kings dependence on him in every
matter, the havaldar and sipahi who
are struggling endlessly to get higher
positions or posts, every one represents
the chaos in the Administration.
AC T—l
Kishan and Paindhua are teasing the
Gwalans and satiring on the various
mismanagement in the Government and
in other fields in the society. Paindhua
in the end gives a short speech which
gives a ground for the play to start.
A CT—l |
There is no one else in the court room
except the Raia. The Havaldar comes
and discusses with the King the absence
of Pradhan from the court. He is followed
by the Pradhan who explains that the
reasons of his being late is his wife’s
maternity. He also tells him that the
Kotwal is ill. However, in the end of the

Act-ll Kotwal dies and Pradhan who
takes advantage of the King’s ignorance

fixes the post of Kotwal for his lame
brother-in-law.
AC T- | | I
Mainawati is quite annoyed of Havaldar,
she wants to get married to him as early
as possible, but he is waiting for the post
of Kotwal to become vacant. He try to
convince her while siphai comes there
and tells him that Kotwal is dead.
Havaldar is happy to hear the news but

Havaldar and Sipahi are preparing for the

parade when Kotwal comes there. He is
lame and typical shepered type. HaliaThirr is his pet word. Both the Havaldar
and Sipahi convince him to go to

Mainawati’s home to listen to her songs.
ACT—V
Kotwal visits Mainawati’s home
but he accquaints with Sankhya there
and thinks that she is Mainawati and
when he looks at her face, he faints.
Mainawati comes there and according
to the plan made by Havaldar, she starts
seducing the Kotwal and in the end convinces him to come to her home everyday. Kotwal wents away happily.
ACT——-V |
Havaldar is looking for Mainawati when
he accquaints with Sankhya who goes
in to call her. Meanwhile, Sipahi also
comes there. The three of them, then
make plans to make the King to catch
the Kotwal red-handed. Suddenly, there
come the idea of stealing the Raia’s
chappari palang. So when Kotwal
comes, Mainawati asks him for the

chappari palang. The Kotwal orders the

Havaldar and Sipahi to bring the
palang. They bring the palang and ask
him where to keep it. The Kotwal tells
them to keep in it the Bhoot Bangla
where he is supposed to get married to
Mainawati .
ACT—V l |

The Raia is quite angry and tells
all the Courtiers that they all are
good for nothing, because his
chappari palang is stolen inspite
, of such tight security. He orders all of

M

