हु-----------------------------"

Di r e ct or ' s N ote :

Theatre is a illusion of reality, reflection of society, a medium of
expression etc. The Director's note is a convention. Out of sheer

habit we all adhere to it. Director's note only succeeds in
obfuscating issues. Nevertheless for me the play is the thing. The
play comes to life through the Actors.
Recently we did "Sainya Bhaye Kotwal‘l in the Annual Drama festival
l 996 organised by J&K Academy of Art, culture and Languages.
The play has its eight scenes. The first scene starts from Paindya
Krishana and Gwalans or Milkrnaids. Then I was asked by some
people that it has no relevence with other scene of the play. |
Just want to clear the relevence (The "Tarnasha" is a representative
Folk theatre form of Maharashtra, it is a happy, artistic blend of
dance and music marked by robustness and Vigour of the spoken
mord. Lavani Sangeet and "Nritya" are the core of its artistic
expression. Every Tarnasha has three clearly marked movements
around which the action is centered. The first is the “Gana” or
the opening inovation to Lord Ganesha. This is invariably followed
by the episode depicting Lord Krishana sporting with the gwalans
or milkmaids Allusions to contemporary events and personalities
figure prominently in the dialogues between Lord Krishana and
the Milkrnaids, the scene is marked by exchanges of wit and
repartee rich music and colourful dancing.

The third movements unfolds the theme, which though built on
traditional stories of kings and queens, reaches out to include a
wide spectrum of contemporary social and administrative problems
and provide through the dialogue, an intelligent and often caustic
commentary on subiects close to the everyday life of the audience,
thereby severing close audience participation in the action. The
contents of the songs have contemporary references and very often
border on the "risque" they are naughty without being vulgar.
Excellent team- work, histrionic versatility, ready wit and the ability
to improvise-all help in the total artistic achievement.

The play depicts the contemporary political and social scenari.
The king who does not pay attention towards the administration,
common masses and always remains busy in hunting,
visiting outside the Kingdom and exceeds the limit of lust.
Meanwhile, the Kotwal expires and problem of selecting 'new
Kotwal' arises.
Q
According to seniority, the Hawaldar is the deserving candidate.
But the pardhan does not want to see Hawaldar as Kotwal,
because he has been asked by his wife to give an opportunity
6

५

S A

M

O

O * H

