यब-बय-यय-बब-ब-----------

--,

च

C. A S T
RAJ | N DE R KU MAR

Born in the year 1972, he is into business. He has acted in
a no of stage plays. Owing to his fine dancing ability, he is
fantastic on stage movements, which bring him audience
applause. He is quite active in television he has done a Few
T.V. Plays and serials. His Maior plays are
Mattavilas,
Sainya Bhaye Kotwal, Singhasan Khali Hai, Good Bye Swami,

Teen Apahiz and Dhoort Sarnagarn. He takes Theatre seriously
and wants to persue it.
Born in ] 973, he is a Science Graduate from Jammu University.
He has acted in number of Productions of Samooh Theatre
Group. Besides, giving Good Performances on stage, he is quite
busy in doing radio & T.V. Plays, talks etc. His maior plays
are : Singhasan Khali Hai Mattavilasarn, Marno Prant, & Dhoort

Sarnagam. He has successfully attended a workshop with ‘Mr.
Adil Hussain from N.S.D. He Intends to Excell far in this field.
Born in the year 1973, She is Science Graduate from Jammu
University, Presently doing her B.Ed. She is an Amateur Actress
and a Brilliant Kathak Dancer. She has Acted in the Major
Productions of Samooh theatre Group which include : Singhasan
Khali Hai, Good Bye Swami, Sainya Bhaye Kotwal and
Mattavilas. After passing the Radio voice audition test, She has
Done a few Radio and T.V. Plays too.
Born in the year 1975, He is Doing Graduation in Science from
University of Jammu

Searching for career in computers

He devotes a Lot of time to stage plays. He has acted in about
]2 plays and Brought laurels for the Group by Winning
Certificate of Merit. His Maior plays are : Singhasan Khali Hai,
Teen Apahiz Good bye Swami, Marnoprant and Sainya Bhaye
Kotwal. He wants to do more stage plays and serve theatre.

Born in the year 1975, She is a Graduate from Jammu
University. She is presently into Theatre, Radio and a Bit of
Television too. She has acted in several productions of Samooh
theatre Group, the Major ones include : Good Bye Swami and
Sainya Bhaye Kotwal. She has also Done Assistance in Direction
of few plays Quite Seriousin theatre, she intends to do and
achieve more in this field.

