ABOUT T H E MUSIC DIRECTOR
Born in year ] 954, son of eminent Tabla Master Sh. Lachman
Dass done his Post graduation in Hindi and Dogri from
Jammu University and B (Music) Praying Sangeet Samiti,
Allahabad. Approved Music Composer in Dogri and Hindi
from All India Radio.
Worked as Music Director in four Dogri Audio Cassettes entitled
"Dharan, Phuharan, Dayar & Chinar" produced by Gramo
Phone Co. of India In which songs were sung by Play Back
Singers like Mrs. Neelam Sawhney, Mr. Satish Babbar, Mr.
BR” M 0 H A N
Santosh Kumar, and some eminent local singers of Jarnmu.
Contributed in different Audio Cassettees as Poet namely Dogri Geet with Disco Silsila
Yaadon Ka.
Some of his songs are sung by eminent play-back singers like Mr. Kurnar Sanu, Mr. yash
pal Singh, Mrs. Minu Parshotam, Kavita Krishna Murti and some of the local singers for

Chitraharr programme by Doordarshan, Srinagar, produced by Tele Man Films, Anant Arts
etc.

Arranged many Musical Programmes under the banner of Dogri Sanstha, Duggar Manch,
Hindi Sahitya Mandal, Jammu. Cultural Acadamy , Jarnrnu and N.Z.C.C. etc.
Got the best Music award from J&K Academy of Arts, Culture and Languages, Jammu
for the Play " Poster" in the Year 1986.
Got an award for Music in the Musical Bellet "Om Shanti Shanti Shanti” Written I and
directed by Prof. Mrs. Rita Jatinder, from P.G.Deptt. of History, University of Jammu.
Lent Music to many other Stage Plays and Serials Plays Like "Kasai Wara" "Holi", "Sainya
Bhaye Kotwal Sarve Bhwantu Sukhna, Charnpa and Peeran Parocha Surg" etc. Honoured
by Various Organisations like Dogri Sanstha, hindi Sahitya Mandal, Kashmir times, Central
Govt. Employees Welfare Co-ordination Committee etc. for his outstanding achievements.
A known face in the theatre and television scene of J&K state.
A commerce graduate from Jamrnu University he started his
career in theatre with the National acclaimed production
"Bawa Jitto“, in the Chandigarh theatre festival organised by
Puniab culture Affairs Department, in l985-86. After this
there was no looking back for this talented actor. The other
fine productions followed like, Aag De Beei (Puniabi)
Sarhadan (Punjabi) Hatyara (Puniabi) Rishtian Da Ki Rakhiya
Na (Puniabi). And special reference to the renowned Hindi
productions like, Sainya Bhaya Kotwal, Singhasan Khali Hai,
Good Bye Swami. Bhupinder the versatlie Actor performed in
J&K and Several other states of lndia. tn the year 1994 this
BU P I N DE R SI N G H MA NH AS
young actor decided to contribute for television also. The
remarkable productions are : Bandish, Zanieer, Toofan Ke Baad, Haq, Gharana, Bhagan
and Several other message oriented short films telecast by Srinagar Doordarshan. Besides,
1

he is associated with many social Welfare organizations of the state. He intends and firmly
believes to reach higher destination in the field of acting.
'l 0

.

S

A

M

O

O

H

