ﬂ

NEED AND IMPORTANCE or ' DRAMA IN EDUCATION
The values of 'drama' are many, but
its use in the classroom teaching has yet
to find a rightful place in our schools.
The present day situation in our schools
has not changed for the betterment of
classroom instruction. The teacher carries
on old dry and drab methods of
teaching, were the student is a passive
listener only. His creative ability and
imagination are not given any
importance of exposure by the teacher.
He is at the receiving and acquires all
information from the teacher. His
participation in the class room teaching
is almost negligible. Thus, his power of
analysis, logical thinking, understanding
of human beings, events and situation
do not find any place in a 'teacheroriented' authoritative classroom.
Moreover,
the
whole learning
system in our country is focussing on
'Examination' only. there is a pressure of
examination on both the children and
their teachers. Children thus do not find
their subiects interesting. If some colour
is given to the classroom instruction,
surely children would find teaching
more meaningful and intersting. Drama
can serve this purpose and hence it
should be used as a teaching tool for
children.
The 'words of Bertolt Brecht require
to be quoted here"Generally, there is felt to be a very
sharp distinction between learning and
amusing oneself. THe first may be
useful, but only the second is pleasant...
Well, all that can be said is that the
contrast between learning and amusing
oneself is not laid down by the divine
rule; it is not one that. has always been
and must continue to be... It is a
18

commercial transaction. Knowledge is
really iust a commodity. It is acquired
in order to be resold... Learning has a
very different function for different social
strata. there are strata who cannot
imagine any improvement in conditions.
they find the conditions good enough for
them. Theatre remains theatre, even
when it is instructive theatre, and in so

far as it is good theatre, it will amuse".
Ms Norah Richards made her
observations in l 947 when she remarked
that the idea of harnessing acting to
quicken teaching is not included in the
report on Post war Education
Developemnt in India.
The Education Commission (196466) envisaged the importance and
reforms in School curriculum, methods
of teaching and the Examinations. Much
has been done in this direction as class
room research pieces but their practibility
has failed in our schools. There has
been a pressure of curriculum on both
students and their parents resulting in
the mushroom growth of teaching
shops, coaching houses and factories in
our cities instead of 'Quality Schools.’
The quality and standard of a school
today are iudged by the parents on the
grounds of the 'Result of the Board
Examinations.‘ Despite the efforts made
by N.C.E.R.T. in this direction to do away
with 'Result oriented Teaching.' nothing
has been achieved by way of a school
system which can provide 'total
development' to its student. Use of
drama in classroom teaching is corrective
way to such down dropouts. Using
drama in classroom teaching can also
cultivate interest in students for a
particular subiect (e.g Mathematics,
Geography, History etc.).
5

A

M

O

O

H

