—

THE FOLK AND THE CLASSICAL
Theatre is impolite, rude, vulgar. It
shocks prudes. The secular formsTamasha, Bhavai, Nautanki, and Naqal
dominating the northern and western
parts of India are replete with sexual
iokes. It is considered improper for
women to watch these plays. In the city
of Poona, many professors and
intellectuals, champions of culture, refuse
to see a folk play because of its
"vulgarity."
Folk drama is unself-conscious,
spontaneous, boisterously native. The
classical theater is rigid, Complex,
sophisticated. The folk is unhewn, the
classical chiseled. The folk sprawls, the
classical demands mathematical
exactness. One is rural, the other regal.
Folk theater can make a whole
community take; the classical is for the
chosen few. The folk has mass appeal
and caters to the lowest common
denominator, the ordinary man; the
classical is for the elite and demands
previous knowledge from the spectator.
The folk theater has a universality which
the classical lacks. Folk art (singing,
dancing, acting) crosses the borders of
class, religion, and country. The classical
often imposes these barriers because of
its esoteric nature.
The relationship between the classical and folk theater is complex. They
are not antitheses of each other. They
coexist they borrow and lend. We know
that folk art always precedes classical.
Cave drawings and primitive hunt
mimes were the precursors of painting
and dancing. Greek tragedy and
comedy were born out of fertility rites
and the frenzied worship of Dionysus.
The classical Indian drama also grew
out pageants, rituals, mimes, and

ancient folk forms. But the Indian folk
theater prevalent in rural areas today is
only four to six hundred years old.
India is a country of Kaleidoscopic
contrasts. Four hundred and eighty
million people inhabit the giant triangle
which stretches from the snow-capped
Himalayas down to the tapering tropical
Cape Comorin. There are fifteen major
languages, including English, more than
seven hundred dialects; six important
religions half a dozen ethnic groups and
many different casts and creeds. The
wheat-complexioned bearded Sikhs in
their colored turbans in the Punjab the
ebony-bodied naked Santhals in the
east the close shaven Dravidian priests
of the south the full busted dark women
of Maharashtra the Mongolian-flavored
people of Assam and the sunbaked
balled singers of Raiasthan offer a
baffling variety. Religious beliefs, eating
habits, social customs, rituals, styles of
turbans, hairdos, and beards, and the
draping of saris and dhotis differ from
Region to region. Yet the people are
bound by a common impulse embedded
in their philosophy, music, arts and
tradition.
The folk theater mirrors both this

variety and this unity.
When, after the tenth century, the
classical Sanskrit language splintered
into vernaculars and took root in the
form of regional languages, the Sanskrit
drama-petrified for many centuries was
replaced by the growing folk theater.
Old legends, Puranic takes, mythological Iore, philosophy, and stories of
Sanskrit plays were popularized by the
present folk theater. In this way the
tradition flowed not from the folk to the
classical, but from the classical to the

toIk .

