a
लू

The folk theater inherits many of the
classical conventions. The Sutradhara
(Stage Manager) of Sanskrit drama
appears in vernacular folk forms as the
Ranga, the Bhagavatha, the Vyas or the
Swami. The Buffoon, the counterpart of
the classical Vidushaka, is the darling of
the folk theater. He appears under
different names in various regional forms
Konangi Komali, Hanumanayaka,
Joothan Mian. He speaks in rustic prose
or dialed. He has the freedom to connect
the past with the present and relate the
drama to the contemporary scene. He also
acts as liaison between the audience and
the players. The Purvaranga (State
Preliminaries) is an essential feature of
both Sanskrit and folk theater. The
musicians take their position on the stage,
tune their instruments and play a melody
the dancers perform a few dance numbers
the cast sings a managalacharana (a
vernacular form of the classical invocation)
Some of the folk theaters also use a
benediction at the end of the play. They
employ music, dance, stylization,
verse dialogue, exaggerated make-up
and masks with the same lavishness
as the classical drama. Scenes melt
into one another. The actioncontinues in
spite of changes of locale and scene.
Asides, soliloquies, and monologues
abound.

to know more about the Peshwas, the
Maratha, herosim, their rugged land.

scape, their music, their passionate
optimism, their dogged virility and the
full busted female figures of their cave
sculpture. Similarly the Gangetic Valley
culture, Philosphy, and traditional mo.

r'ality are mirrored in Ramlila and
Krishnalila Peagent plays. Yakshagana,
the opulent folk opera of Kanara land,
reveals the tradition, temple worship,

and the peculiar music and ritual of its
people. The Jatra of Bengal expresses
partriotic fervor, histrionic refinement,
and explosive nationalism with an
interlacing of the Vaishnava cut.
The folk theater does not give a
slice it offers a panorama of existence.
Though it moves slowly, it cannot afford

to be dull. The spectators are participants in the performance. They ‘cheer
and laugh and weep and suddenly
become silent as the moment demands.
They constantly throw sparks of live

interest to the actors who, charged with
this electrifying contact, through the
spark back A good Yakshgana company

can hold spectators spellbound from
nine in the evening to seven in the

morning when the play concludes with
the first shafts of the sun. Jatra actors

in Bengal are a bigger draw than
modern professional actors. A good

in its production method, in its use of

contains a rich store of mythological
heroes, medieval romances, chivalric
tales, social customs, beliefs, and

a microphone before an audience of
three to five thousand people. The Jatra,

speech, music, dance, dress, behavior,
humor, proverbs, wit and wisdom. It

rUPees a month) and performs without

Folk theater represents the people
in their natural habitat, with all their
contradictions and multifarious activites.
it gives a glimpse of their style of

legends. In order to understand the
colorful diversity and unity of India. It
is important to see the folk theater in
its natural setting. Watching
a
Tama
sha
Performance in Maharashtra one com
es

Jatra company generally has a salaried
staff of 1,500 rupees permonth (one
actor, Chhota Phani,

is paid 3,300

stage areas, movement, speed, and the
oaklike stance of its odors, paradoxiCGHY looks more modern in terms 0f
theatrical aesthetics than the realistic
"modern" ploy,

Life in India in the street. Shops!
310”, FltUGlS, bathrooms are exposed '0

