‘—

that without discipline it would be
not iust difficult but impossible to work
with such a huge team. Fido Husain told
that the owners of the companies had
strong principles. Once a rule is made
it must be follwed. Fido husain first
started working in Alfred Company. It
was a big company. Had its own rules.
Very strict. No body could have beatleleaf. Smoking was not banned, but
nobody could smoke in the dressing
room. nor during the rehearsals. A ten
minutes 'interval' was given so that the
people could go out and have a smoke.
And the manner of sitting in the
rehearsal was that for two, two and a

half hours you iust sit and watch. The
training being imparted on stage or in
the room—you've got to see it. No body
could talk about with each other, nor
look around. Nor sit cross-legged either.
One had to sit properly.
With strictness, there was fun too,

many facilities were provided for. Salary
was disbursed on the dot. Other
companies had problems. And then
fooding, lodging, travelling arrangements
were so good that no one had any
cause to complain. One secit each of
the first and second class was provided
for during iourney special train was
arranged.
The company's discipline was not
only for. the actors but for audiences as
well. Public could not put their feet on
the sofa. No sitting cross-legged, nor
the legs sprawling. In Aligarh or at other
places, students used to come. If found
sitting sprawling their legs, our owners
would approach them and say, this is
our sacred profession (rozi) please don't
put your feet there." At this they used
to relent. Otherwise, generally the
audience was aware. of it.

musicals. How could the public be
enterained without dance and music?

All the three important playwrights
of the parsi theatre, Narayanprasad
'Betab', Agha hashra Kashrniri and
Radheyshyam Kathavachak were purely
the gift of the Hindi region By 1924,
the Parsi companies had been presenting the Hindi plays of Narayanprasad
'Betab' and Radheyshyam Kathavachak
in Delhi, Meerut, Benars, Allahabad,
Jaipur etc. This was a time when the
Arya Samai, the Indian culture in the
wake of freedom-struggle and its glory
and the abundance of great personalities were creating havoc all around.
Morally this theatre was so strong
that the entire theatre literature on the
emotional front catered to love for the
nation awakening, reform and love and
sacrifice, whereas on the other hand this

theatre was so perfect and effective, in
all aspects, of which there is no parallel
to be seen today.

Winn Inst eomllmonts from :

M/S KAY DEE PVT. LTD.
B. It. load. IIIIII

Those days all plays used to be
28
S

A

M

O

O

H

