v

new consumer city centered around the
warrior class and its culture was very
rough - and bold in nature. The two
contrasting cultures reached perfection
in style approximately 100 years after
peace had been established, around the
end of the 17th century. This same time
also marked the end of the first period
of development and refinement in
theatre.
The brash bravado style of Edo and
the realistic and idealogical style of the
Kyoto-Osaska area both reached perfection at this time. Edoties found a
heroic, striking style, which came to be
known as aragoto, stimulating, while
Kyoto-Osaka area people found detailed tales of love, ‘known as wagoto,
more in harmony with their tastes. The
most representative के actors of the day
were Daniuro lchikawa of Edo and
Toiuro Sakata and Ayama Yoshizawa of
the Kyoto Osaka area. Ayame
Yoshizawas is especially important in
the history of Kabuki as the perfector of
the female impersonation techniques of
the onnagata.
When we reach the middle of the
18th century, we find that these famous
actors had passed on, and one of the
Edo theatres had been put out of
business, and kabuki had gone into a
state of decline. it was around this time
that Bu'nraku (puppet theatre), which
had developed somewhat earlier than
Kabuki, completely overpowered Kabuki.
The old narrative ioruri chanted music
was wedded to the shamisen when it
was imported from Okinawa, and this
was added to a highly technical style of
puppet theatre that was already very
active around the end of the 16th
century to create Ningyo (puppet) Joruri,
which is known today as Bunraku.
42

Bunraku saw great development
alongside of Kabuki around the end of
the 1 7th century. Two genius artists-the
playwright monzaemon Chikamatsu and
the composer Gidayu Takemoto—were
responsible for this development.
One of Chikamatsu’s hit Bunraku
plays "The Battles of Kokusenya”
(Kokusenya Kassen) was adapted for the
Kabuki stage and served to iniect new
life into the genre. This took place in
1716. The now world famout "The
Forty—seven Loyal Ronin” (Kanadehon
Chushingura) was also an adaption for
kabuki from a puppet theatre script. This
scripts from bunraku were introduced
into the Kabuki repertoire one after the
other, until they came to make up a very
large percentage of that repertoire.
This resulted in Kabuki’s becoming a
more musically oriented theatre and
greatly enriched its dramatic content.
By this time, the theatres were no
longer temporary structures. A roof had
been added to cover the seating area,
and a raised passageway had been
devised which runs through the seating
area and a raised passageway had
been devised which runs through the
seating area to the edge of the stage,
known as the hanamichi. Also such
innovations had been made in stage
effects as the revolving stage, which
allows for the quick change of as many
as three separate scenes by means of
a partial revolution for each scene.
As a result of the introduction of
scripts and techniques from the puppet
theatre, which was developed in the
logical climate of the Kyoto-Osaka
area, the Kabuki of Edo became more
complex, the culture of Edo attained
ahigher level of refinement, and Edo
became the man center of Kabuki
activity.
5

A

M 'O

O

H

