७

O F T H E AT R E A N D T H EAT R | ST S !
Deepika B. Thakur

Theatre is an art that presents the
world aesthetically through dramatic
action performed by actors before
spectators. It plays a vital role in social
change and it makes comments on the
state of the world and provides a weapon
in the acute social struggle, raising acute
social problems, critical of reality to the
point of satirical exposure.
Now with the ’remote culture',

audience love to watch T. V. or Cinema
sitting in the cosy environs of their homes.
The theatre cannot rival the cinema in the
authenticity of reproduction and so
creative search on the stage must turn in

the different direction, namely intellectual
analysis of life, philosophical reflection
over the state of the world and profound
generalization about human nature.
Even though cinema has its attraction,
but the audience have a great affinity for
theatre. For a good performance they do
go to see the play in the auditoriums to
get the real feel of art. An important
feature of the theatre is that creative act
takes place before the eyes of the
spectators. That gives the theatre
tremendous influence on the minds of the
audience. In the cinema the spectator sees
the result of the creative process while in
theatre he sees the process itself. This goes
a long way to explain the fascination of
the theatre.
For any good performance there is no
dearth of audience and the theatrists must
ensure that the interest of the spectators
is generated and the performance is
gripping. There may not be audience for
some plays but in most of the sterling
performances, the auditorium, take for
example the Abhinav Theatre in Jammu
is jam packed . Theatrists should give better
quality to the audience to sustain their
interest and not iust produce a play for
60

the heck of it. Audience do not go to the
theatre for mere entertainment which they
get in plenty through T. V. What they want
is intellectual enlightnment and the actor ’s
craft which demands a specific kind of
talent observation, concentration, a skill

in selecting and generalizing life material,
imagination, memory, temperament and
such expressive tools as good enunciation
intonational range, mime plastic
movement and gestures etc. Audience
love to watch the latest trends in theatre
brought forth coupled with creativity. This
explains the affinity for good
performances which have the audience in
plenty.
To make the audience habitual to see
the play in theatre, the theatrists should
concentrate on plays and produce better
productions and not force dull, drab

performances on the ’aware’ audience.
The plays should not be a mere
entertainment but it should give the
spectators superb performances so that
the essence of the play lingers on long
after the performance is over.
The theatrists must ponder over the
shortcomings in their performance instead
of grumbling and try to improve them.
Theatre should not be a mere activity. It
should have a purpose of awakening the
audience to contemporary issues and

creating a dialogue on prevailing social
problems. The Director’s approach must
ensure that we meet and recognise real
persons on the stage

and not just a

gaggle of automated string puppets.
The audience then experience the pain,
the tension, despair and finally the
catharsis.
It is seen that some actors leave the
groups they are working for creating lot
of problems. They cannot be termed as
’actors’ in the real term. If they are good
actors they will be committed to their work.
S

A M

O

O

H

