FOCUS ON

ACTIVITIES

MUSICAL SITTINGS- Musical sittings top the list of various activities of the Same].
In the past twenty-two years no fewer than forty-eight musical sittings had been
arranged and most of them very successfully. In the last sitting, held on January
19, 1975, the members enjoyed performance by the baddis of Garhwal.

PUBLICATIONS A well brought out collection of ﬁve popular one-act plays entitled
Khadu Lapata ar Anya Natak written by Shri Lalit Mohan Thapaliyal remains
as the only publication of the Samaj so far. It had decided to publish some other
works also but could not make any headway because of paucity 'of funds.
ILLUSTRATED TALKS AND FILM SHOWS- In 1958 Shri Mukundi Lal, Bar-at-Law, gave an
illustrated talk on the works of the Garhwali School of Painting. Similarly on May 1,
1966, Shri Bachchi Ram Maithani spoke on ‘lndian Art and its Cultural Heritage'.
He supported his conviction by showing a ﬁlm on the subject and later replied the
queries from the audience. Again on November 4, 1972, by arrangement with the
National Museum, a ﬁlm ‘Bal Ramayana’ and other documentaries were shown to
the members.

LITERARY SITTINGS- The Same] convened about ﬁfteen literary sittings from time to
time. Some of them were well attended by members and invities. On July 11 ,
1965, Shri Rajendra Dhasrnana recited his 12 poems which were later discussed at
length by members present. On June 8. 1966 a short story by Shri Kankal was
listened to and discussed by members. In October 1966 Shri Pradip Pant read his
paper on poems of Shri Shyam Virnal and Shri Rajendra Dhasrnana and Shri Kankal
initiated the discussion on them. Later both the poets while replying queries from
the audience elaborated their respective standpoints and elucidated problems of
contemporary Hindi literature. Similarly on January 17, 1973, in a largely attended
sitting Smt. Madhuri Mathur presented a paper on three collections of poems, viz.,
Langri Kiran by Sh ri Parthasarathi Dabral, Himshi/a P/gh/i by Shri Urna Shankar
Satish, A/navi Shahar Men by Sh ri Devendra Upadhyaya and Natak Jar/ Hai by
Shri Liladhar Jagoori. Shri Mitranand Kukreti initiated the discussion in which,
among many others, Sarvashri Pradip Pant, Prabhati Nautiyal, Taradutt Upadhyaya.
Nitya Nand Joshi, Kalika Prasad Kala took an active part. Shri Rajendra Dhasmana
summed up the discussions and concluded the meeting, convened by himself. On

