October 20, 1974, Shri Raja Khugshal read a paper on the two novels by Shri Jagdish
Chandra Pan dey. viz. , Gagas ke Tat Par and Samgya se Paha/e. Shri Poorna
Chandra Bahati in his own way discussed both the novels quite interestingly.
Shri Rajendra Dhasmana, the moderator, raised certain points with regard to the
form and contents of the novels and roused considerable interest among participants
in the discussions. A number of persons discussed the novels and asked the
author to clarify certain points. Shri Sulekh Chandra Sharma after discussing the
novels in his fabulously rich literary diction and in an objective approach and a
style, distinctly of his own, concluded the discussions.

DONATION- The Samaj staged two one-act plays, Achharyun ko Ta/ and Ghar
Jawain, in Kirorimal College Hall in the University Campus on November 27, 1966.
This function was organized in reSponse to an appeal by Shri Bhakt Darshan, Shri
Manavendra Shah and Smt. Kamalendumati Shah to collect funds for building
Garhwal Bhavan in Delhi. The Samaj made a donation of rupees ﬁve hundred on
this occasion to Garhwal Hiteshini Sabha. This year the Samaj intends to make
a donation to Chaundkot Seva Sangh, Delhi for building a Degree College in
Chaubattakhal Chaundkot, Garhwal. The amount of donation shall. however. be
declared later.
SEMINARS- Among a few Seminars that the Samaj organized during the past, one
on the Garhwali Programmes broadcast by All India Radio is worth mentioning.
The Seminar, convened by Shri Kankal. was inaugurated by Shri Bhakt Darshan and
presided over by Shri Santosh Narayan Nautiyal. Shri Kankal put the problem
threadbare and Sarvashri U. S. Rawat, Rajendra Dhasmana, Kalika Prasad Kala,
Ram Prasad Joshi, Kamal Sahityalankar participated in the discussions.
GET TOGETHERS- Shri Lalit Mohan Thapaliyal elucidated the American way of life to
members who accorded him with hearty receptions twice. Sarvashri Visheshwar
Prasad Kabadiyal and Ram Prasad Joshi on their retiring from Government service
and U.S. Rawat on being transferred to Ahrnedabad were given warm send oﬁs.
CHILDREN SPORTS DAYS. PICNICS. ETC- Children sports days have been organized
by the Samaj almost every year. It also organized picnics for its members many a
time. On the Children Sports Day that took place on November 10, 1974, a crowd
of more than two hundred jubilant young sportsmen took part in more than twenty-ﬁve
items. The day was celebrated in NDMC Primary School in l-avenue of Sarojini
Nagar. All the players were distributed fruits and seventy-ﬁve players received
prizes from Mrs. L. N. Sakalani.

