A Few More Press Opinions
Glimpses of the difﬁcult, and yet fascinating life of the mountain-locked district of
Garhwal were provided in the three one-act plays presented on the ﬁrst day of
Garhwali Drama Festival. One of the plays. The Lake of the She-ghosts made the
nostalgic crowd from that part of the country re-live a few intense moments of their
life in that unkind yet fabulously beautiful land. Though not a ballet it has no less
an appeal than Giselle has for a western audience.
The other play, The Court of the Crooked, is a satire on the system of justice in
Garhwal The Lost Ram isfhumorous skit revolving round the life of a demobilised
soldier who takes to tending sheep and turns the village upside down when one of
his rams is found missing.
Mr. L. M. Thapaliyal who wrote and produced the plays deserves the gratitude of hill

folk for providing ﬁne fragments of the wealth of the genuine entertainment of
Garhwal. —The Times of indie, 74th February, 7959
’
Some unusual dramatic fare was presented by the Garhwal Sangeet Natak Samaj...
There is a little doubt about the felicity with which the dialect lends itself to use
as dramatic dialogue but its appeal is naturally limited. One wonders whether it
would have been a better idea for the group to produce in Hindi using the dialect
to strengthen the main language...dudging from the reaction of the audience the
lines seemed to hit home and it was on the whole an enjoyable evening...The
standard of acting ...uniformly good. ..perhaps reflected the advantage the actors
had in using a speech, the cadences and inﬂexions of which came to them most
naturally... ——The Sunday Standard, 14th February, 7959
Plays mirroring life in the hills... Theacting was convincing... Effective
lighting and background music ﬁnely brought out the moods of the plays... —— The
Hindustan Times, 74th February, 7959
A folk colour as pleasant as it was new, marked the three dramatic productions by

the Garhwal Sangeet Natak Samaj...The three items presented were Ghar Jawain,
a brief play in the comic vein ; Accharyun-ko-Tal, another brief play, and a dance
drama. The ﬁrst two. . .did credit not only to the players who staged them but
also to the simple hill folk they dealt with. The dance drama, composed by Mohan
Upreti, was also a fair representation of the rhymes and rhythms of the hill. ——The
Indian Express, 79th March, 1962

