Shakespeare in marathi
Translations from Shakespeare into Marathi were ﬁrst attempted
in the latter half of the 19th century. Purveying the classics of the
Bard to the Marathi readership was looked upon as part of the
great task of introducing the literature of the West (Primarily
of the ruling country, Britain) to the Marathi-speaking masses.
These translations, almost literally made by university dons, were
thus more in the mainstream of English-oriented humanism than
a basis of stage productions. Almost all the plays of Shakespeare,
including those rarely staged in the West, were translated or
adapted in Marathi.
A few of these translations, however, were adapted for the

stage and proved to be worthwhile vehicles for “prose ” actors.
Kelkar’s Tratika (Taming of the Shrew), Kolhatkar’s Zunzarrao
(Othello), later adapted for the stage by G. B. Deva], Agarkar’s
Vikarvz'lasit (Hamlet) and Paranjpe’s Manajirao (Macbeth) belong
to this category of Stageworthy adaptations. An actor of the

unique calibre of Ganpatrao Joshi created history with

his

rendering of Hamlet.

Shakespeare also inﬂuenced a few leading Marathi dramatists
who appeared in the early decades of this century in the wake of
the pioneers, Kirloskar and Deval. Most successful in imbibing

this inﬂuence was K. P. Khadilkar, whose tragedies bear comparison with Shakespeare’s, especially in the matter of characterisation. There are strains of Hamlet and Iago in the leading characters
of Khadilkar’s ﬁrst play, Sawai Madhavravacha Mrittyu ; his

Sahitya Sangha
Mumbai Marathi Sahitya Sangh is one of the foremost institu-

tions in Greater Bombay devoted to literary pursuits. Founded in
1935 it started its activities in the literary and cultural ﬁeld
and its drama department is functioning since 1941The Sangh organised a grand drama festival in 1944 in celebration
of the Centenary of the Marathi Theatre. Since then the festival

has become an annual. event which is keenly looked forward
to by theatre lovers. The Natya-Shakha has done very valuable
work during the last 20 years. The effort is appreciated as is
amply proved from the number of invitations that it receives from

within Maharashtra and

outside for performing

the

plays

