Raghobadada and Anandibai in the historical Bhaubandki derive
much from Shakespeare’s conception of Macbeth and his Lady.
S. K. Kolhatkar, pioneer humorist and satirist of Marathi
literature, shaped his plays after the light, minor comedies of

Shakespeare’s early period. They have the same element of fantasy,
involved plots, disguises, etc., and even the language is suitably
ornamental.

Kolhatkar’s disciple, Gadkari, a tragedian in his

'own right, was also perceptibly though indirectly inﬂuenced by
Shakespeare.

When the revival of the Marathi theatre in the late forties
had reached adequate stability, a new movement for adaptations
of Shakespeare was initiated by the Mumbai Marathi Sahitya
Sangh which had taken a leading part in sponsoring this revival.
For the Sangh, V. V. Shirwadkar (the poet “ Kusumagraj ”)
has successfully adapted Macbeth (Rajmukut) and Othello.
The ﬁrst was produced for the Sangh by Herbert Marshall on
a stage simulating Elizabethan theatre conditions. This starred
Nanasaheb Phatak (a notable Hamlet of his day) and Durga
Khote in the leading parts.

Othello was produced for the Sangh

by Daji Bhatawdekar who himself played the Moor.
The adaptation of Hamlet being staged today is by the late
Nana Jog, a

dedicated

theatre personality

from Vidarbha.

Attempting verse parallels, it is in many ways closer to the
spirit of the original than Agarkar’s adaptation. Damoo Kenkre
produced the play and acted Hamlet

in the adaptor’s lifetime ;

the Sangh production is a revival with some changes of cast.

produced by it.
‘ Bhaubandki ’ produced by the Sangh and presented during

the National Drama Festival held in Delhi, in December 1954
which was adjudged as best and was awarded the ﬁrst prize at
the hands of Rashtrapati.
The Natya-Shakha of the Sangh has produced 34 new plays and

many revivals. This effort to revive and develope the Marathi
Stage during the last 20 years has not only proved successful

qualitatively but also quantitatively. The sangha now owns
a well equipped theatre in the heart of Bombay which was
inagurated by the Defence Minister Shri Yeshavantrao Chavan
on 6th April 1964.

