Delhi Art Theatre
Flat 36, Shanker Market, Connaught Circus
New Delhi-110001

Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution

in

promoting and enriching theatre.

Its

productions have been acclaimed not only in

Delhi but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and beyond.

Particularly in

the ﬁeld of operas and musical dramas the group under the direction of Sheila Bhatia has
carved a uniqe and unrivalled place for itself. It is gratifying to note that those who till
recently scoffed at this genre are enthusiastically adopting or attempting to introduce music
and dance in their plays.

We can take legitimate pride as the innovators and creators of

this movement as we always believed that Indian theatre, if it has to take ﬁrm roots cannot
do without integrating song, dance and drama based on indigenous forms using modern
t e chn i ques .
Probably our is the only group in the city which has experimented with plays or
operas and musicals in the three major languages of this region, namely, Punjabi, Urdu and
Hindi. The themes of our plays deal with burning social and human problems.

Our productions, to name a few amongst many, like Heer Ranjha, Prithviraj
Chauhan, Ghalib-Kaun-Hai, Chann-Badlan-Da, Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka-Hawa Se Hippie rI‘ak,
Nadir Shah, Jugni, Dard Aye Ga Dab-e Paon, Yeh Ishq Nahin Assan etc., were all
hailed as landmarks in Indian theatre and were performed in all major cities and towns of
India.
This time the group is presenting a historical musical drama Shahanshah Akbar
in Urdu written and directed by Sheila Bhatia. It is a new interpretation of the times and
events of Akbar's reign. It tries to probe deep into Akbar’s turbulent and stormy life.
This far-sighted and sagacious warrior-king almost single handedly tried to create a
synthesis between two hostile communities—Hindus and Muslims. He attempted a social

transformation and if he had succeeded the face of India today would have been different.
But the forces opposing him were too powerful and well entrenched.

Apart from

the bigoted Shaikhs and Mullahs, his own mother was against his progressive ideas.

