A Note on the Play
Since my school days I have been fascinated by what Akbar did or stood for four
hundred years ago.
I have been for a long time revolving in my mind to produce a drama on the life
and times of Akbar. This is my humble effort.
३

Jalaluddin Akbar, the great Mughal, desperately tried to unite human hearts
irrespective of their religious faith and endeavoured with all sincerety to bring the entire
country under one banner. He wanted to synthesise the two cultures—Hindus and Muslims
to enrich one with the other. He was an Emperor with a difference. India was not a
place where he wanted to collect his booty and runaway. He wanted India to consider
him as its adopted son. He was aware that his subjects were the backbone of the Empire
and unless there was amity and peace among them the Empire would always be fragile.
The ﬁfteenth century was an age for new awakening, an upsurge with a spirit of
protest against the set creeds and formula. Suﬁsm
and Bhakti movements had
already swept the country. Guru Nanak’s devastating preactings against superstition and
cant ; Kabir’s philosophy that debunked the shell empty of every religion ; Tulsidas, Surdas,
Mira set a

new wave in motion.

The Imperial Court was not left

found something good in every religion.

untouched.

Akbar

He wanted to achieve Utopia ; to combine what. is

good in every religion and found a new religion Din-e-llahi for the good of mankind. But

alas, it reached very few people. It had very little socio-economic base and for any
fundamental change that is absolutely essential. Besides there were no scientiﬁc or other
.
inventions.
Birbal was the only Hindu who adopted Din-e-Ilahi. As Kabir remained popular
with the lower rung of people Din-e-Ilahi hovered round the court—for gains and favours
and forty years after Akbar’s death it was forgotten.

Still by and large the allegiance between the two communities on the upper level
brought about peace, tolerance and amity amongst the whole people.
orthodoxy was too well entrenched.

But caste and

The subject was fascinating. It required a deep study of interpretations of various
historians about Akbar’s times and Akbar, the man, a statesman, a warrior and a mighty
sovereign. But the fact remains that very little historical material is available which either
gives details in depth or analyses the various moves and counter moves. History has
not been a strong point with Indians. Guru Nanak, Surdas, Kabir and many others have
served as background for the making of this play. This proved most valuable.
I have tried to reveal Akbar as I saw him surrounded by some of his important
courtiers who were his pillars and his opponents Shaikhs and Mullahs who left no stone
unturned to take the wheel of history back. Akbar fought all opposition tooth and nail..
It was his own son Salim who rose in revolt to grab the throne. There couldn’t be a more
bitter pill for a father to swallow than this. It was he who played into the hands of the
bigots. But blood was thicker than water. Despite Salim’s gross misbehaviour the throne

