was handed over to him—unwillingly. Akbar knew that his dreams were already demolished. Inspite of that this herculian effort to unite the two communities serve as a

beacon light.
It was not feasible to have all the well known characters in Akbar’s Court. For
example the Nav Ratans. Only those were taken who were necessary to develop the theme

of the play.

I

'Some very important characters history just mentions and leaves it at that.
is no mention of actually what they were.

There

For example Mariam Makani, Akbar’s mother,

who is most unhappy over Akbar’s innovations receives only a cursory glance. Jodhabai.
mother of Salim and known as Mariam ﬁnds very little mention in history. Manbai,
Salim’s ﬁrst Rajput wife who was unhappy with Salim and ultimately commits suicide out
of frustration, neglect and suspicion is totally ignored. I have tried to give them shape and
body and have tried to develop these characters.
The play is being dealt with on two levels. The palace level and at the level of the
ordinary people whose life generally remained unchanged inspite of the far reaching administrative reforms during Akbar’s regime. At best the people only hear rumours about what
happens in the Court and they form their own conclusions. People suffered as ever before.
Two famines during Akbar’s time swallowed humanity. Akbar’s big ideas and Nanak’s
and Kabir’s thoughts chellenging set ideas and creeds and orthodoxy never got amalgamated
to form a powerful stream to change the socio-economic life pattern. But what is
probably most important is that because of these teachings people were at peace with each
other. There was tolerance and bon-homie. And despite hunger and famine, I have tried
to show their verve for life. their antics and frolics, their joys and sorrows.
If Akbar failed in his ultimate aim, it was a grand failure.

too.

Music posed a problem on two levels. The search for music of that time was difﬁcult
We have used poetical works of poets of those times or of an earlier period like Faizi,

Saburi, 'I‘alib, Haﬁz, Ghizali and Kabir, Meerabai, Tulsi Das.
Amir Khusro frequently.

English translation.

We have used the great

Some of the poems were only available in Persian or their

Some of them were rendered in Urdu by Kamal Siddiqi.

It was lucky

that he agreed to do it. Here and their Sheikh Sadi’s poetic thoughts have been used.
What richness ! And what wisdom ! And centuries ago !

-—SHEILA BHATIA

