Shahanshah Akbar
AACT‘I
Scene

Akbar looks back on his childhood, the role his ancestors played as conquerors,
He takes bold decisions in abolishing Jaziya and tax on pilgrims though his
mother is opposed to it.

There is an inner urge to take the reins of his country

in his own hands and be free from the domination of his foster mother.
His foster brother Adham Khan betrays Akbar and kills his wazir Shamsuddin.
Akbar orders his death.
Scene

A Banjara family entertaining common folk in the city chowk. Mohini a
Hindu girl who is in love with Saiyyad Musa is threatened by her father at. this
unheard of love-affair though Birbal in the crowd points out that there. are no
such taboos in the palace.
५

Scene

Salim wedded to Manbai returns from shikar. His fast friend Sharif coaxes
him to have a cup of wine to get over his tirednesswA decisive moment in

Salim’s life.
better of him.

Inspite of his ' love for Manbai, the ways of harainsara get the
Manbai is shocked when she sees kaneezes hovering round Salim

~ like bees on a ﬂower.
Scene

A very particular day. It is Salim’s birthday and also an important day when
Akbar is returning after a major conquest in Gujrat. There is celebration.
Important reforms are announced. Common people also participate in this

joyous moment.

After others

depart, Akbar reveals his expectations from

Salim and he is given all promises and rosy picture. of their fulﬁlment.
Scene

S cen e

The impact of Kabir and Tulsidas on common people is not liked by Shaikhs
and Mullahs. Akbar watches incognito their reactions. He is not shocked to
see how a Pandit, a bigot also sides with the Shaikhs at such moments and call
them atheists who are under the inﬂuence of Kabir.

The country is in the grip of a famine. Nothing describes the conditions better
than a line from Shaikh Sadi’s poem “water could be available only in widows’
eyes.” Akbar in his Ibadat Khana poses this question to Shaikhs, Pandits and
Courtiers ‘What does religion say about famine ?’ No one has any answer.
They all violently quarrel among themselves each proclaiming his religion to
be the best. Akbar shuts them up. He puts his own fresh ideas before them.
It is Abul Fazl who gives shape to what Akbar has in mind. Din-e-llahi is
proclaimed in the face of opposition. Akbar had sent for Salim to be with
him in this hour ofneed.

When Salim bypasses his orders, Akbar decides to

go with his mother and Jodhabai to see for himself why Salim disobyed him.

