Scene 7.

Salim is surrounded by singers and dancers and his best fsiend Sharif puts
ideas of revolt in his head. Even when he is reminded about Akbar’s message,
he gulps it with a sip of wine. Akbar is shocked to see Salim surrounded
by Kaneezes, each vying with the other for Salim’s attention. When Akbar
shouts at him Salim is too drunk to even salute his father properly.

ACT I I

Scene L

Festivals, Hindu and Muslims, were celebrated at the Court of Akbar.

There

was an air of freedom and rejoicing. The atmosphere is disturbed by Manbai
is
complaining about Salim’s behaviour and her worry about Khusro who
following in the footsteps of his father, Salim. Akbar is angry and bewildered
at the thought why Salim didn’t take after him. The blues are taken away by
a light drinking atmosphere in which Akbar declares that he would ﬁght with
his own sword because a remark from Man Singh which Akbar misunderstood
annoyed the king. _ But he soon realised that this frivolity was unnecessary.
All the might was necessary to ﬁght a war in the Deccan. He orders its preparations leaving charge of the city in the hands of Salim.
Scene 2.

The King has marched out of the capital. Abul Fazl’s advice to Salim to show
his worth in managing the State affairs in the absence of Akbar offended Salim
who tells Abul Fazl that the latter is double faced and will not succeed in
creating a gulf between the father and the son. Shaikhs take this ( pportunity
to conspire with Sharif and send a message to Salim that they are prepared to
assist him in every possible way. Dissatisfaction, Dissensions and suspicions
between Manbai and Salim mount up to such an extent that she is deriven to

commit suicide.

Scene 3.

The conspiracy is hatched further. Salim was asked by Akbar to wage a war
against Rana Pratap of Mewar. The Shaikhs advised Salim to march but
on the way turn the direction of forces towards Allahabad where he should
declare himself as an independent king.

Salim marches thinking that no one

knows about this plan but Man Singh does and informs the King in Deccan.
Scene 4.

Birbal has been killed in a war but people remember his satire and enact a
playlet about Akbar and Birbal in the street.

Scene 5.

Akbar returns post haste after Manbai’s death and Salim’s revolt.
has had a thundering victory in Bengal and is made Seven Hazari.

Man Singh
Mariyan

Makani has brought back Salim from Allahabad to apologise to his father for
his gross misbehaviour, Akbar gives him another chance and orders him to go

back to Allahabad. Shaikhs are unhappy at this patch up and once again
incite him to revolt and convince him that Akbar’s supporters are not with him

