And ha 1 e In Yu g

'And ha lem Yug' is a translation of 'Andha Yug' an epic creation of
Dha rma vi r Bha rati , recipient of National award for playwriting, 'The
Sangeet Natak Akaderni award'.
On The surface of it, And ha Yug appears to be a play on
Mahabharata, Beginning with the crucial fight between Bhirna and
Duryedhana on the last day ofthe great war between the Kauravas and
the Pandavas. But the playwright has interpreted this great war in a new
light, giving it a universal meaning - the war for power and supremacy.
It depicts the changing ideals of the rulers, the conflict between the
principles of d ha rma and adharma - right and wrong. The concepts of.
truth and justice have been re-examined, as is man's position in the
universe.

Portrayal of supernatural mythological characters on the human
level, caught in the web of their own weaknesses, including that of
Lord Krishna, the preceptor, provides contemporary significance to
the play. It shows the agony ofthe blind king Dhritarashtra and his wife
Gandhari, Bestiality of Ashwathama, sufferings of disillusioned
yuyutsu, dilemma of Lord Krishna and victorious Pa ndava king

Yudhishthira haunted by the horrors of war.
This is a story of broken codes and degeneration of moral values.
Astory oflost souls, theirselfexploration a nd quest for enlightenment.

It is also the story of common man, unaffected by the ideals of the
rulers, engaged in making his day to day living.
The play was written in the past second world war period while the
horror of the mass destructions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki was still
haunting the memories of sensitive human beings. It cannot be a mere
coincidence if Ashwatha ma's Brahmastra episode in the play reminds
the viewers of that brutal act.
The contents of this play attracted the creative theatre workers. It
has the possibilities to produce it in different forms and styles. The
complexity of it's structure in verse form mixed with lyrical narration,
variety of ideas and emotions and the characters ranging from
a
common man to the all mighty Lord Krishna has been a feast to the
creative-self of a Director. First to attempt this venture was Shri
Satyadeo Dubey, way back in 1962. Since then it has been produced
by many eminent theatre directors in different languages. They
include E. Alka zi, B. V. Kara nth, Rata n Thiya m, Moha 11 Ma
harshi, M.
K. Raina, Bansi Kaul, Bhanu Bharati, Ram Gopal Bajaj etc.

Andha Yug was first produced in Goa in Hindi by Kala Academy'
s
School of Drama in 1988 under the direction ofShri S. B. Josal
kar. It's
Konkani version 'Andhalem Yug' by Shri Ramesh Veluskar
is being
now presented by Ra ngmell, u nder the direotion ofShri Afsa
r Hussa in.
- G. S. Marathe.

