' RA NG M E LL '
It is a well known fact that, people of this state have tremendous

amount of interest in the theatre art. With a view to giving a boost
to the development of this faculty and putting it on a scientific
pedestal the Kala Academy started School of Drama in 1987. It

provides a three years course in dramatic art with specialisation in
acting and production and intensive practical training. It has an
intake capacity of 15 students each year with scholarships to 8

eligible candidates. Separate hostel facility for boys and girls is also
available.

A natural corollary of the functioning of the school for a few
years, was the establishment of Repertory Company 'Rangmell'
which provides professional experience to the graduates of School
of Drama as well as the local talent. It helps them to gain confidence,
develop the attitude of collective responsibility, mutual understanding, respect and responsibility towards fellow-workers and
the audience. It functions as a leading light by way of exhibiting
plays of high standard in terms of their contents and presentation.
Rangmell is presently functioning on part time basis with rehearsals in the evening time so as to provide an opportunity to the
theatre enthusiasts to participate a fter their work. It has a strength of
15 artistes on regular roll and additional requirement, if any, is met
by engaging casual artistes on production basis.
Rangmell has so far produced 7 plays in three different
languages. 'Gidhaad Gaatha', 'Kaavalyanchi Shala' and 'Bakasur' in
Marathi, 'Paanchvan Sawaar' and 'Dulari Bai' in Hindi and 'Halya
Hirr ss!‘ and 'Andhalem Yug' in Konkani. It is the only Repertory
Company in the country performing in three different languages
with the same expertise. The ambition now is to venture a forth
language.

More than 70 performances of the above productions have
been staged so far in different parts of Goa and outside including
one at National School of Drama, New Delhi. Special efforts are
being made to perform for the people in far ﬂung villages and
smaller towns where one rarely gets an opportunity to witness 3
good theatrical performance. We have already presented several
shows right from Chawdi-Canacona to the interiors of Sanvordem,
Sanguem, Ponda, Sattari, Bicholirn, Pednern and Bardez 'I‘alukas.

The enthusiasm of organisers and appreciation of.. the
audience at all these places encourages us to go ahead with
many more in future.

