Farid-Ud-Din Attar

@This song is an ecstatic world, and ‘1 am its singer;
and the word is true, for you are its proof.
~Attar

garid~ﬂdrwiii ABu SHEmidmuhanunadCBen CIBrEhim was generatiy caiiedAttar, the perfumer.
(Though [ittte is known with certainty aBout his life, it seems that he was Born in आयु) 1120, near
(Mshapur in (MrthrCWest Spersia. (He is said to have Been educated at the theotogicaI schoot attacthed
to the shrine fo ﬂmam (Iieza at 9(a5hhad and tater to have travetted to (Rey (near modern CIehran),

(Egypt, (Damascus, mecca, CIurkestan and CIndia. 9E???” he settted in his home town where he kept his
pharmacy and wrote his poems. Ef'he date ofhis death is uncertain But is given as aBout ACD 1230, so

he [ived to Be hundred and ten.
gram h is persona[ reminiscences scatteredamong his writings it seems that he spent thirteen years

of his youth in meshed. Effie story of,<\ttar’s conversion, which the sufis use to iitustrate the need of
Batance Between materiat and metaphysicat things is given By (Dautat Shah, in the ctassic Memoirs of
the Qoets'. According to him, Attar was sitting one day at the door of his shop when a dervish came
By who [ooked at him andhis perfumes, then heaved a sigh and wept. Attar askedhim to go away. 5fhe
dervish said, “CIt is not difficuttfor me, C] have nothing to carry, nothing But this ctoak. (But you, you

with your costiy drugs? (How can you ever turn your mind to death and renounce a[[ these wortdiy
goods?" आत्मा' replied that he hoped to end his [iﬁz in poverty and contentment of a dervish. “CW?! shaft
see", said the dervish and there upon lay down and died. Ef'his made such an impression on 2<\ttar that
he [eft his father's shop, Became the pupit of the famous Shaikh CBukn—(Zld~CDiri, and Began to study,
in theory and in practise, the sufi system of ideas.

CIt was said he had a deeper understanding ofsuﬂ ideas than any one of his times. (He composed
aBout two hundred thousand verses and many works in prose. (His other chief works Besides the “Ef'he

Conference of the (Birds” are “@"he (Book of the EDivine”, “ﬁf'he (Book afﬂiction” and “6)"he
(Book of Secrets”. (He [ived Before the great sufi gaIaI-‘Ud—Qﬂn (Rumi. Asufi Being asked who
of these two understood most, said: “(Iﬂtmi ﬂew up to the heights of perfection [ike an eagte in the

twinkting of an eye; ,«ttar reached the same place By creeping [ike an ant”. (IQmi said: “Attar is the
soui itself’.

