S ufi s m

Suﬁsm is the esoteric aspect of CIslam. CIts purpose is to convey direct knowledge of the eternal, which
is through lineage that go back to the Sprophet mohammad. (Essentially sufism is a path ofmystical life,
which begins with the 50qu conversion, or turning towards God. 6}"he end of this path is human

perfection in union with God. ‘Suﬂsm' is the (English translation of the Arabic word which means the
act or process of becoming a sufi. हानं is path has been followed by individuals of different temperaments
and characters, and consequently exhibits a wide variety ofapproaches, stern asceticism, loving surrender
to God, rigorous self—scrutiny, vast cosmic speculations. poetic outpourings- these are some oftheforms

that sufism has taken and articualted in ways appropriate to particualr historical situations. (However,
sufism is an internal process, onlYpartly revealed by the doctoral, literary and institutional deposits it
has left in history.

Sufism believes that God can be realised while one is alive. qt introduced the concept of An'al
(Haq (8 am God) which to many of the orthodox were scandalous tendencies of sufism. Sufis also

believed in sweet devotion, that is, relationship of Elover and (Beloved with God. (Their dewelling is
callded khanka and teacher'student are called Qeer-murid. (J'he way of their devotion is called
a'areequa and the stages of their development is calle 9(aquam. fj'he death of a Speer (Sufi) is not
grieved but celebrated, for the soul has ultimately united with God. {The celebration is called ‘Urz. CIn
various sufi orders, the aikr, the repetition of 'la illaha illa llah' is part of initiation ceremonies.

CIn fact, the method of the sufis is zikr, and the manner in which zikr is performed is the essential
difference among the various order. 6f'he derveshes repeat their zikr as they turn. 6f'hey empty their
hearts of all but the thought of God and whirl in the ecstatic movements of (His breath.

The Sufi
{There was a tradesman in a small village in the east who sat on his knees in his little shop, and with

his left handpulled a strand of woolfrom the bale which was above his head, he twirled the wool into
a thicker strand andpassed it to his right hand as it came before his body, (The right hand wound the
wool around a large spindle. {ibis was a continuous motion on the part of the old man who, each time

his right hand spindled the wool, inaudibly said ‘la illaha illa llah'. (There could be no uneven movements
or the wool would break and he wouldhave to tie a knot and begin again. ahe old man had to be present

to every moment or he would break the wool. @"here is awareness. {J'his is life. Sufi means awareness

