About the Play
9(antiq-—‘le~tair, Ef'he conference ofthe (Birds; was composed in twelfth century By the gPersian
poet,
ﬁaridAUd-Svin Attar, in the form of an allegorical poem Based on teaching
of the suﬁs, of whom

Attar was one of the greatest. qt is a poem aBout sufism, the doctrine propounded
By the mystics of
CIslam. ’p‘j'he doctrine is elusive, But certain tenets emerged is common to most accounts. Ef'hese,
Briefly,
are: only God truly exists, all other things are (His shadow, religion is useful as a
way of reaching the

gym; God only knows unity; the soul is trappedwithin the cage of the Body, But can By [coking inward,

recognise its essential affinity with God. 6111 the Conference of the (Birds आव्या' frequently seems to Be
aBout to propound the same doctrine, only to step Back at the last moment andmaintain afinal
distinction

Between God and (His creatures.

The Allegorical Framework of The Poem
Effie Birds, which repersent humanity, are called together By the hoopoe, the sufi, who proposes to start
on a quest offind their, king, Simorgh, who lives in the mountains of (क्या Ef'he Birds after at first
Being excitedBy the prospect ofhaving a king Begin to make excuses as to why they shouldnot themselves
take part in thejourney, which would he so hazardous. (The hoopoe, after hearing each plea, replies

with tales to show how their desires andfears are mistaken. (Eventually, the hoopoe tells the Birds aBout
the seven valleys which are to Be traversed in the quest. ahese seven valleys are:
(Dalley of the Quest— where all kinds ofperils threaten, and where pilgrims must renounce desires.
(Galley of Eﬂgveﬂ the limitless area in which the seeker is completely consumed By a thirst for the

(Beloved.
@alley ofqntuitive (क्लक्शाटिर्यङ्कष्ट- where the heart receives directly the illumination of @Puth and an
experience of God.
(Galley of SDetachment—v where the traveller Becomes liBeratedfrom desires and dependence.
(Dalley of (Unification- here the seeker understands that what seemed to him to Be different things
and ideas are, in actuality, only one.

(Galley ofAstonishment—r here the travellerﬂnds Bewilderment andalso love. (He no longer understands
knowledge as Before, it has Been replaced with something called love.
(Dalley of EDeath~ here the seeker understands the mystery, the paradox, of how an individual ‘drop
can he merged with an ocean, and still Be meaningful. (He has found his place'.

