The director

mariusz O rski was born in CWarsaw, QJOIand. he was educated at the CWarsaw's state Academy of
Sperforming Artsfrom which he graduated in aheatroiogy andgamity ofCI)irection in I 985. (Between
I 976 and I 98 I , स्था: Orski particupated in workshops andprojects developed by gerzy Grotowski and
the EIanoratory 5f'heater and studied Grotowski's methods of actor training.
qn l 988. he was awarded a guibright SchoIarship in 6f'heater Artrs to the ‘UnitedStates where

he studied acting at the American Conservatory 6)"heater in San gransisco and at the Wchaei
Chekhov Studio in (New )ﬁ'rk, Since I 98 9. mt: Orski has been a teacher of acting and directing at
the State Academy of giim, acievision and (Theatre in फुकी. Afso he has conducted many theatre
workshops in gJOIand (i.e. organised by the Centre of Contemporary Arts in CWZIrsaw. CInstitute off].
Grotowski in CVVrocIaw, etc.) and abroad (Croataia, (Denmark, Germany, Great (Britain. (Iﬁtssia,
Sweden). CIn October I 995, स्था: Orski taught a series onKichaeI Chekhov cWorkshops to the acting
company of the Oregon Shakespeare gestivai in Ashfand, Oregon.
90*. Orski has been involved with the internationaIQvﬁcheai Chekhov movement since it began in
(Beriin in I 992. (He has taught andsharedhis work in alIfour CInternationaIQvﬁchaefCheknov Conferences
andwas a member ofthe Organizing Committee ofthe 6hirdmichaefﬂeknov CInternationai Cworkshop
in I994 at (Emerson Colfage, (England. ग्रा". O rski'sfirst professional production was the musicalpfay
ahiptych at the Studio 6)"'heater, CWarsaw, in I984. {Jhis production was invited to the gestivaI of

Athens, Cuftu rai Capita! of (Europe in I985. Afso in I985 O rski's production ofCBogusiaw Schaeffer's
Audience 3 was awardedfirst piace in the gestivai ofContemprary Spolish Spiays in Szczecin. Other
productions in a variety oftheaterfoliows, inciuding Oedipus by Sophocfes, (Endgame by (Backett, and
{The (Bacchea by (Euripides which was invited to be presented in (Engiand in I994. qn I 998 he directed
‘Ef'he marriage by C“I Gombrowiczfor (NS(D in (New (Deihi. CIndia.

