Light Design

(His experience हेतू forte in field of Stage
Management &§ﬁght (Designing are synonym to
all the major theatrical, music [) dance happenings

in the country. be it the Sangeet (Natak Akademi's

(I‘Lehru Shatabdi (Maya Smaharo or CICC(I{S
(International (Puppet festival or (Dance
57mm! or (Mrth Central gone Cultural
Centre's ‘(Partigiya 98’.
(He has been sharing his work ethics १1
professional attitudes with his peers as well as
the yourger gereratior. of designers १1 technicians.

(He is on the visiting faculty of (Mitional School
of (Drama. (Bhartendu (Maya Akademi and

CIndian Sheatre CInstitute etc.
Ashok S’agar Bhagal' an ace Qﬁght
(Designer of (Myth CIndia, has been in the top
league ever since his graduation from (National

a'he enrichment ofresources १1 exploration
of creative faculties of the self flourishes while
working with internationally renowned

School of (Drama, (Mew (Delhi in I 979. (Being

personalities. which included giants like, (Himatani

actively involved in the development &promotion
of amateur theatre in the country on one hand,
he is equally credited with the pride १1 prestige

Sun (Ejechnical (Director (Mitional @heatre
(Japan), (Prof. ﬂohn (Russell (Brown ((University
onKichigan). Hohn (Ratelic (ﬁndon) Ekthe (lery

of presenting CIndia abroad during the ﬁestivals
of (India in ﬂapan, Germany. Oiina, 6hailand,

Wrriot (Artistic (Director (Eugonil aheatre
Company (Broadway (USA) 9%. Ejeplyako

(Russia, (@gystan, (IQ’zakisthan & (Brazil in
the capacity of Stage QKanager & aechnical

(Gelatine ((IQtssia). छा) add to these is an endless

(Director.

list ofCIndian personalities, such as W: (E. ,<\lkazi.
9%: (BR). (IQJranth. W. (Bansi (हिंक्ली 9W.
{Mohan Waharishi, (Prof. (IQm Gopal (Bajaj,

(His technical excellence & know-how is
well reflected in some ofthe Auditoriums of(Delhi

(Prof. (BQK. Shah. W. (Bhanu (Bharti etc.

and other parts of (India, which were modified
and made functional under his guidance.

CIn search ofnew frontiers & experimenting
with new languages & technologies has also made

Abhimanch of (NS(D ९1 (House of (World
(Understanding auditorium of Chinmaya Ofﬁssion
at Qthi (IQad, are some of the auditoriums

him work in the field of Cinema १1 छटेथिभाँहांध्या.
(His contribution as Art (Director in the films
‘q3andit Queen' &‘3aya-Ganga' has received

which bear the stamp of his excellence.

critical acclaim internationally.

