In 1973 at the instance of M. P. Kala Parishad a panel of eminent theatremen
and experts was appointed to advise on re-structuring of the Samaroha and to
suggest ways and means for making the festival broad-based and a more relevant
forum of the classical tradition and the contemporary creative efforts.

The panel recommended that the Samaroha should be broad-based so as to make it
truly a national forum for creative exploration of our multi-faced ancient
tradition and that this exploration could be achieved only if it was organically
related to the contemporary theatrical effort. The panel further recommended that
in each Samaroha a play of Kalidasa or any other Sanskrit play-wright should be
performed in original Sanskrit, as per norms prescribed in Bharata’s Natya
Shastra in order to authentically re-construct the ancient Sanskrit style, another
play of Sanskrit in any of the theatrically rich Indian languages including Hindi,
a production of a Sanskrit play in the Lokdharmi style in Hindi, a ballet based
on either Kalidasa or some other Sanskrit classic and recital of one of the
traditional theatre or dance forms which are living remnant of the
ancient Sanskrit tradition such as Koodiattam, Ankianat, Chhau, Kuchipudi,

Yakshagaan etc. and a contemporary Hindi play making use of the life
and age of Kalidasa or the classical tradition in general should be performed
in the Samaroha. A living dialogue btweeen the scholars, theatremen and

artists on various aspects of the Sanskrit theatre and performing arts was also
considered as a necessary part of the Samaroha.

The panel also recommended that stage-worthy translations of Sanskrit plays in
Hindi and other languages should be prepared and published and that there
should be a museum and a library consisting of books, photographs,
manuscripts, ﬁlms, tapes, costumes and other material relating to Sanskrit

and traditional theatre. It was also recommended that a well-equipped theatre
hall should be built in Ujjain and that a centre named after Kalidasa designed
to study, explore and creatively use classical performing arts should be
established. The recommendations of the panel were accepted and the theatre
festival was re-structured accordingly. In order to implement the other
recommendations Government of Madhya Pradesh ﬁnally decided to establish
the Kal ida sa Ak ad em i .

