A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF AMATEUR THEATRE
IN

DI BRUGARh
-Mu.nin Sannah

Thus wrote the renowned writer Atul Chandra Hazarika to begin his observations on the
modern dramatic activities in Dibrugarh Town:

Having been enlightened by English education, the progressive-minded
citizens of Dibrugarh developed a liking for the European dramatic art
forms and performing plays in that line. Bhabaleanta Baruah and
Radhanath Chang/ea/eoty put in their pioneering eﬁ‘brts way back in 1872.
It was they who sowed the seeds of modern dramatic stage and theatre in
Dibrugarh by performing in Bengali the play entitled ‘Prahlad Charitra’
with necessary guidance from their Bengali friends who had already been
acquainted with the trends ofCalcutta Theatre. Players from both Assamese
and Bengali communities took part in its performance. Thus the/foundation
ofthe ‘Puja-Ghar’ and side by side with it-the ﬁrst Bengali amateur theatre
came to be laid at Paanch-ali.
of their
A section of theatre-loving Assamese people, however, felt the need of a theatre
thatched
and
walls
bamboo
with
house
own and subsequently in 1885 they built out a theatreplay
The
up.
came
School
High
roofs at the sight where a few years later, the Government
of that year
named ‘Abhimanyu-Badh’ staged in this theatre during the Durga puja festival
arh town.
Dibrug
in
staged
is said to be the first modern Assamese play ever to have been
n of
grandso
the
h,
The person who played the role of Abhimanyu was Bhabakanta Dowera
ti
Guwaha
from
E.A.C.
Maniram Dewan and the writer ofthe play was Bharat Chandra Das,

who wrote under the pen-name ‘Janaik Jnani’. Even prior to the staging

of this play in the

But the manuscript
year 1872, one Purna Kanta Sharma had written a play ‘Madhumati’.
nately, bear the brunt of the
was burnt down by the author himself who could not, unfortu

None the less, as stated by
criticism a section of so-called honourable people of the time.
Badh’ had its own merits.
Benudhar Rajkhowa, the produCtion of the play ‘Abhimanyu

