Immediately after this first production, a committee was set up to manage the activities of

this ﬁrst play—house and its ﬁrst President and Secretarywere Jaduram Baruah and Bhabakanta
Baruah respectively. The other members of the executive were—Radhanath Changkakoty,
Purna Kanta Deva Sarrna, Malbhog Baruah, Ghanakanta Chaliha, Nilarnbar Dutta, Kirtinath

Changkakoty, Tankeshwar Baruah, Chandreshwar Changkakoty, Padrnanath Baruah,
Muktinath Sarma, Gangadhar Khatoniyar, Ghanasyam Deva Sarrna, Ramkumar Dutta,

Sibanath Bhattacharyya, Indradhar Rajkhowa, Ghanashyam Kharghoriya Phukan, Kuseshwar
Sarina, Mantanram Das, Champakdhar Dutta, Harinarayan Sarrna, Hemachandra Goswami,
Golap Chandra Dowerah, Suladhar Sarma, Shibanath Bezbaruah, Basalal Baruah,

Chandrakanta Majinder and Dibakar Dowerah. The details of this committee has been given
as it was this committee which happened to be the first one of this sort that carried forth the
initiative for what is known today as Arnolapatty Natya Mandir.
Unfortunately, this ﬁrst play-house and its adjoining Puja-Ghar were completely gutted by
a ﬁre which was believed to be an act of sabotage on the part of some miscreants. Later on,
sometime during 1892-93, the second play-house was erected on posts of ‘betel-nut’ trees.
This task was undertaken by the committee under the secretaryship of Tankeshwar Baruah
during 1905-1906 on the plot of land beside the earlier ‘puja—ghar’ with the promise of
purchasing the said plot in future from its owner Golap Chandra Baruah [ Dowerah].
However, a storm raged this play-house to the ground. The executive committee, during
whose tenure a permanent structure of the theatre with wooden posts and roof of white iron
sheets on the plot of land of its own came to be a reality, had Malbhog Baruah as its President
and Nityananda Sarma as Secretary.
A landmark in the annals of Dibrugarh Theatre has been Sailadhar Rajkhowa’s ‘Ranj it Singh’an Assamese rendering of ‘Othello’ performed in 1908 on the occasion ofthe third conference
of the ‘Assam Chatra Sanmilan’. Rave reviews of the performance of ‘Othello’ appeared in
the ‘Asom Banti’.
Co-acting came to be introduced in Dibrugarh through the staging of Prabhat Sharma’s
‘Deepsheekha’ during 193 8-39. Names to be remembered in this venture are Radha Govinda
Baruah,, Rohini Kumar Baruah and Jeevan Ram Phukan. Labanya Prabha Hazarika and
Gunada Bala Gogoi, the two actresses performing in the play ‘Deepshikha’ stunned the
audience in their debut performance. Rohini Kumar Baruah embarked on the production
of his film ‘Monomati’ in 1940 with a troupe of actors and actresses who performed
‘Deepshikha’.
This bold step of co—acting succeeded in taking a leap forward through plays like ‘Sonit
Kunwari’, Narakasur’SC “Rakhya Kumar”produced by “Jyoti Children Theatre” of Shri

