Bharat BorPulari-Thus began the Process of giving a full-fledged modern outlook to the
dramatic activities in Dibrugarh. The far- reaching inﬂuence of the dramati
c movement led
by Indian People’s Theatre Association is naturally worth mentioning in this
context Under
the leadership of the stalwart artists like Jyoti Prasad, Bishnu Rabha, Hernanga Biswas
and

Nagen Katoky there started evolving innovative experiments in every direction ofdramatic
art.
Mention may be made here for instance, onyoti Prasad’s ‘Lobhita’ created on a vast canvas

applying the documentary technique. Centred round female characters, the form and content
of this play were revolutionary. It is amusing to note, however, that even after about two
decades of its successful staging in the ‘Amolapatty Natya Mandir’, “Lobhita” was not accorded
the due recognition of a play by many learned people. The only reason behind it was that it
did not conform to the traditionally accepted dramatic rules and technique.
“The whole country is our play-house/ the people our performers”—this great ideal of
Indian People’s Association inspired the dramatist Phani Das to create plays like ‘Luitor
Bukur Gajoni’, Haranathar Sansar’ and ‘Emuthi Asha’. Signs of distinct transition from an
inert traditional dramatic process to the innovative thought and technique of modern drama
were there in these plays performed by the artists from I.P.T.A. These experiments and
thoughts have had a strong bearing on the activities of many socially committed dramatic
troupes coming into existence in later years. The names of the plays which easily come to
mind in this context are those of writer-director Deuti Baruah from ‘Joyshree Sangha’of

Arnolapatty. His one-act play ‘Shihant jiyai Thake’ is about the life-struggle of the downtrodden working-class of the society. Renowned dramatist Utpal Dutta greatly appreciated
this play when it was staged at India Club, Dibrugarh in 1964 and he made some intimate
and valuable suggestions comments on this promising venture. In later years ‘Joyshree Sangha’

staged three full-length plays of Utpal Dutta ofwhich ‘Leninor Ahban’ and ‘Manuhar Adhikar’
are specially memorable. In the seventies Joyshree produced ‘Bristi’, the ﬁlm in which the
art loving people of Assam found a tremendous promise. However, it is quite disconcerting

to note that no further venture has yet been taken up by Joyshree.

Established in the fifties , ‘Vijoy Sangha’ of Khalihamari made its appearance inthe ﬁeld of
drama in 1962. Until the seventies they kept producing plays in Assamese, Bengal! and Hmdl _
because of the involvement of the boys and girls from—all the three language communities
1 with the Sangha. Inspired by a progressive outlook Vijoy Sangha had put in their efforts to
bring about a change to the stage of Assam through the production of Bertolt,Brecht’s
‘Three Penny Opera’ in Bengali and Assamese. Munin Sharma’s ‘Sabhyatar Sankat written

in 1974, was probably the first Brechtian play in Assamese. Later on they successfully staged

