‘Sabhyatar Sankat’, ‘Chorus’ and 'Fini Paisar Opera’ at Rabindra Bhavan, Guwahati. More
recently Vijoy Sangha has produced an Assamese tele-film named Raj Darsan based on the
original Bengali play by Manoj Mitra. This has received warm applause from the viewers of
Doordarsan Kendra, Dibrugarh.

‘Bhabikal Natyagosthi’ is yet another significant drama troupe which came into existence
towards the latter part of the Sixties by producing plays in both Assamese and Bengali.
Bhabikal has played an important role in establishing a close link between the Group Theatre
movement of Calcutta and the artists of Dibrugarh. For instance, the present writer was
directly influenced by their production of ‘Chak Bhanga Madhu’ and ‘Marish Sambad’.
Another landmark on the stage of Dibrugarh has been their production of ‘Guineapig’ the
Assamese rendering of ‘Raj Rakta’.
A few years after Bhabikal’s coming into existence a group of play-loving youths from
Chowkidinghee , Dibrugarh, established ‘Chowkidinghee Youth Club’. It embarked on it’s
venture with the original plays of late Anil Majurnder, a highly promising playwright-director
and Actor. Their ‘Prastuti’ a one-act play, could win distinction of the best play in many
competion besides gaining wide acclaim. ‘Ranga Nodir Paar’ has been another of Majumder’s

popular creations. Their dramatic activities have now been hampered as most of the members
have not been locally available for quite sometime.
‘Ajonka’ [Amar Janma Natakar Karone] from Udaypur, Chowkidinghee, has been able to
establish themselves as an efficient and committed dramatic troupe over the last one and a
half decades. Late Manoranjan Phukan of this club had been a pioneering youth artist,
promising literary figure and a playwright—director. His death has been an irreparable loss
for Assam. One of Phukan’s original plays -‘Kolajat Ami’[ we in the collage] has been a
distinctly experimental venture. Apart from this play, ‘Bihuramar Bagicha’ (original BengaliMonoj Mitra is yet another significant production. Founding of ‘Akhora Ghar’ - a training
centre of dramatic art, has been their solid contribution. Ashim Sharma’s ‘Chup’ staged by
the trainees of ‘Akhoraghar’ has been able to gain tremendous response from the audience.
Nattyacharcha’ started its journey with the Audio-play ‘Jorowrowa Paraja’. This successful
play byMunin Bhuyan encompasses the vastness of the great ‘Moarnoriya Revolt’. By taking ‘

considerable pains to study the historical documents and records for this purpose, Bhuyan ‘
has infact faithfully committed himself to the creation of a truly historical play. Other

productions of ‘Natya Charcha’ are ‘Sandhikhyan’, ‘Hati aru Fandi’ and ‘Nyay Nistha’.
The first two are written by Munin Bhuyan himself and the third one is translated from ९
Albert Camus, based on deeply philosophic arguments and discourses, ‘Nyaya nistha’ has

