in\( )( ll 1३3

cultures makes you see the form in a way you
would have never seen before. ” she says
DREAM STAGE: “I would love to collaborate someday with Akram Khania wonderful
contemporaiy dance artiste rooted in classical
Kathak training "

SUBHASH VIMAN. 34
Unlike most professional dancers Subhash Viman took to the stage rather late, Born in Gujarat. Viman moved to the UK With his family at
the age of two. but it wasn't until he turned 23
that he had his ﬁrst dance lesson. “My dream
was to become a graphic designer and work
with Disney." says VimaiL who gained popularity through his appearance on Just [)anee. a
reality show on Star Plus, four years ago.
Viinan started taking dance lessons because
of his fascination with hip hop; he confesses to
have turned to itjust to “add some colour to his
life." But things changed when he started training in the classical forms, “Learning Kzitliuk
and Bharata Natyzim exposed me to new

1 (M .

"पाशा iingur m

"l wns bullied
९1 lot ६15६। (‘hild.
Slmmz is 21 solo

[)lt’t't‘ that asks
quesiions about
the dark side of
human lil'e"
—SUBHASHVIMAN

perspectives 'l‘odan'. 1 um working on a piece
that explores the detinition ot~ 'Intll'}'tltltl purushottzini~ ष the perfect Iltzllt’i within lndinn myt hologi he szn's.
Vinizin now divides his time between perlor»
inzmees in lndiu and across Europe and l'SA
“Though I'm not religious. I believe the knowledge of uneient dunee forms hits streamlined
in_\' lllt‘ pltlltis‘tipli)‘, And thzit‘s retleeted in my
art." stirs Viinzin. who has collaborated with
eonteinporui)’ artistes such as \'eenu Bosm'uruJlall 21nd Rughu Unit. and is now keen on treatmg works that are more personal “I \\‘Ll> hul~
lied it lot as u ehild Simon is .1 solo piere that
's questions about the (lurk side of human
lite " He doesn't believe in pigeonholing hunsell: "'l‘hi‘ough eonteinporauw. hip hop uiid elus‘
siezil (lunee forms. I tun now looking zit creating
u lungunge ol~ my own." he udtls
DREAM STAGE: "'l‘liis has nothing to do
with in_\' prolessionzil pi'uetu‘e. but it. 1 get ।
ehuiiee to dunee with Shah Rukh Khan on
stage. it would 1३1५९।(11५५।1111'11111011'111' ३' "३

