The Playwright

William Shakespeare
Seven years after the death of Shakespeare, his friends and colleagues published
the first ever collection of his 36 plays 'The Great folio of 1623' as tribute to
'Only to keep the memory of so worthy a friend and fellow alive as was our
Shakespeare'. He was born on 23rd April, 1569 A.D. to John and mary

Shakespeare in the village names Straford-Avon—Apon. He received primary
education in Greek and Latin at a rural grammar school in the same village. His

father was a butcher by profession. Shakespeare finished his education by the
age of 16 and according to some records joined his father in assistance. At the

age of 1 8, he married Anne Hatheway but led a disturbed family life. He
travelled to London in 1588, the place that was then known as the city of theatre
companies. He started writing plays by picking up plays ofyesteryears and working around them. He took these
scripts to companies and also started working as a player (an actor) in those companies. Marlowe and Ben
johnson were among his contemporary playwrights. In 1594, he got associated with 'The Chamberlaen's Men' in
the capacity of a playwright, actor/ player, and business manager. Along with him in the company were Richard

Burbage, a successful 'tragic hero' and william cemp, an unparalleled comedian Shakespeare soon earned
partnership through his extremely successful and commercially rewarding plays, which in 1599 got extended to
the Globe theatre.
Shakespeare worked with his actors and gave them directions in Rehearsals. He wrote a total of 2 plays till 1602
and since then, a play a year. His must successful slint as a player is said to be the ghost in Hamlet. He left acting

after 1603 and indulged himself in other activities like buying a lot of land and properties.
The varying subjects in
the plays of Shakespeare
reﬂect the interests of the
audience in his times.

Though his creations are
considered a landmark in
the history of
playwrighting, it will be
interesting to note that
Shakespeare's efforts were
primarily focussed to meet

the pressure and demands
of the 'play market' or '

theatre market‘. He spent
the last five years of his
back in his hometown
where he died on 23rd

April 1616 AD.

