Glimpses of Shakespearian time

The time of Shakespeare is named as Elizabethan theatre, He was the greatest playwright of that time, his
contemporaries were Christopher Marlowe and Ben jonson. These playwrights had an incentive to be prolific.

Once a company had paid the dramatist for a play, it belonged to the company and the author received no further
income from it.

Once the professional theatre began to establish a foothold, buildings intended speciﬁcally for theatrical
performances began to be erected in Europe. In England, the first was, The Red Lion, but the best known of the
early playhouses was The Theatre, All these theatres had similar features that drew on medieval conventions but

transformed them. Shakespeare's company used The Globe after 1599.
It is an overstaternent to call Shakespeare's stage 'bare', since it was colourfully painted and decorated with
hanging clothes, but is remained largely unchanged from scene to scene, with the exception of moments when

essential large properties were carried on to the stage; Desdemona's bed at the end of Othello, for example,
otherwise visual dynamism and variety were given to the theatrical space by the movement of the colourfully and

richly dressed actors across its expanse. Most characters regardless of the historical era of the play were clothed
in Elizabethan garments; Greek and Roman characters were often identified by drapery superimposed on
Elizabethan dress; Ghosts, witches, fairies were dressed in garments corresponding to accepted ideas of the
appearance of such creatures. Lighting was not a major problem because performances took place in unroofed

structures during daylight hours. Darkness was indicated either in dialogues or by torches, lanterns or candles
carried by characters.
For actors the learning of lines was constant task. To satisfy a public went to the theatre relatively regularly the

actors needed to present new production at suitably frequent intervals. There used to be circulating repertories
keeping a number of plays in performance during the playing season. The working day was a long one, and at any

given time a player would have to have been prepared to perform in nine or ten plays, knowing the lines for
perhaps two or three roles in each play. Shakespeare wrote many of his plays while maintaining such a schedule.

To a degree, the style of a text determined the style of the playing, Elizabethan actors no doubt dealt with the
rhythms of dramatic verse more readily then their modem counterparts, since poetry was a chief medium of the
contemporary theatre as it no longer is. In a theatre where words were so important, a strong and supple voice

must have been one of the first requirements of an actor. The face was expected to be the actor's chief visual
medium of communication in both comedy and tragedy. Female roles were played by boy actors; so, at any given
time a company must have sought to keep two or three boy players to play females.
London playhouses were one of the sights of London and English players had a high reputation. They drew
many visitors from abroad as well as english people. Perhaps between two and three thousand people visited on
an average day. Plays were shown in the afternoon. The gentry was full of courtiers, legal students, soldiers,
labourers, women from middle class, thieves, prostitutes, a wide range of audience. To stand in the yard they had
to pay a small fee, for galleries larger fee and for private boxes called "Lords' rooms" the fee was even higher.
There were no interrnissions and wine, beer, nuts, playing cards were sold in the theatre by vendors during the
performance. Audience were much free and expressive then, like a modern sports spectator. Keeping the
audience quite and attentive was again a matter of skill of the performers and the power of the play.

