Di rectors' Note

It is extraordinary to think that this play was written, and first performed, some four hundred years ago. It seems

so contemporary, so modern. Its central theses, are that all political idealism is in fact about power; and that all
politics is ultimately personal. It is a play without a hero, set in a society that craves one. Each of the main
protagonists has real strengths — determination, intelligence, courage, personal loyalty and commitment — and yet
each is fatally ﬂawed. None is the superman that the people crave. Each depends upon others, and is vulnerable
to his — and their — mistakes. Each fails to reconcile his personal life with what he perceives to be his public duty.
Each tries his uttermost to resolve the issues of the play, and comes up hard against his own limitations. It is a

play dominated by men: and yet, the very few women of the play know their men better than those men know
themselves. It is a play with no easy answers to the questions that it poses. Even at the end, the dramatic struggle
for power is not resolved — it is merely ready to be resumed, with new opponents already preparing to set
themselves against one another. Caesar's ghost still walks the land. And the play certainly has as much resonance
now - whether produced in London or Delhi — as it must have had four centuries ago.

a
And yet, the more I work upon Shakespear's texts, the more I feel it is a mistake for us to regard him as
I think we might
playwright who was 'before his time'. It is perhaps , arrogance, on our part, to think this. Rather,

share our
venture to suggest that the greater part of humanity is still trying to catch up with him. He seems to
compassion!
sophistication, and what philosophy, and what wisdom we can boast. But if only we all shared his
ry men,
Even in the most flawed of his characters, there is depth, and complexity. And in this play of extraordina
greatest
's
Shakespeare
of
there are no superfluous characters — none that is unimportant, however minor. One
story and can make a
achievements is to show that we are all interdependent — and that the even the least has his
protagonists, but
major
the
of
none
is
play
difference. It is arguable that the most important character in this

rather the mass of the ordinary, common people. The ordinary are also important; and those

who are apparently

n as such.
extraordinary are, finally, only ordinary human beings after all — and worthy of our compassio
N SD. As always, it has
It has been a great pleasure to return to Delhi to work on this play with the students of

me and for making
also been an education for me. I thank the British Council, and everyone at N SD, for hosting
the project possible. I
also thank the Central
School of Speech and
Drama, in London, for

allowing me the
necessary time away
from home. I can only
hope that you — the
audience — share
something of my own
pleasure as you watch
0 u r performance.

