The Mob in Production History of Julius Caesar

Shakespeare's Caesar was acted at The Globe in the year 1599, it was seen by a swiss visitor, Thomas Platter, who

described it as having about 'fifteen character'. There are more than twice that number of speaking parts in the

play, So Platter's estimate is likely to be the numbers of players.
George 11, Duke of Saxe —Meiningen is now usually considered the first director in the modern sense. The
features of his production ofjulius Caesar that most impressed the audience were the crowd scenes. Here are
some reviews by the eyewitness of his Julius Caesar: "Their crowds are made up o f about 70 actors, All who are
not cast in speaking roles without exception, even leading actors, appear in the crowd scenes in this way they

achieve ensemble that are extraordinary true to life." "The handling of the crowd is brought to perfection here.
When Casca stabs Caesar, a single, heart tending cry runs through the crowd. . . . A deathly silence follows; the
assasins, the senators, the people, stand for a moment as if frozen before the body of Caesar, then a tempest

erupts. In the following scene. as the enraged citizens seize the bier with the corpse and others carrying torches

mill about; and ﬁnally as cinna the poet is murdered, one could believe that one was actually present at the
beginning of a revolution. " This was a team of not so known actors. This was supposedly the ﬁrst venture of a
director to work on small details trying to find the precision of each moment. The result was the recreation of

life on stage.
Another experience of stagingjulius Caesar is stansilavsky's playing Brutus, under the direction ofNemirovich—

Danchenko; who when decided to direct this great tragedy, went to Rome with his colleague simon to collect
study materials from there and the result was lavishly decorated stage and richly dressed actors. As stanislavsky
has written Danchenko focused on the crowd scenes as he was trying to recreate that ancient Rome. Finally they
succeded in presenting a grand production ofjulius Caesar, with great decor Rome was present there on the stage

in all its richness. The audience liked this recreation of the great Roman empire.

Perception of the Mob in this Production
In our first formal meeting with our director — Rob Clare; Rob said "the most important character of our play is

still to come"— this character is the crowd —the people, People either they are Roman men & women walking on

the streets celebrating, dancing, murdering or they are Roman soldiers fighting for their leader's cause. According
to Rob Clare the greatest task was to make few actors effective as crowd. \We don't have technology to help us, in
theatre we simply have actors, performance skill and stage techniques. Rob Clare says that Another challenge was
to create a mob of individuals, mob is not stereotype, it looks like when it moves like a huge animal, but suddenly
we will find individuals listening—thinking—talking—reacting, one person starts a small activity and it bursts into a

single big activity and then it results into great power that can do any terrible thing. The task was to show this
animal quality maintaining the human nature constantly. This play has no hero, every body is hero in his own
context. The play is about power and power is the people. Politicians are trying to control the mob on streets-in
battle and use them in their favour either its Brutus or Mark Antony. All of them are strong characters,
humen,
individuals but still moving like a mass strength. We've tried to define it in our modern senses.
डा

