behind him the Kaiser continued to build up and equip his army.
The magnificent parades and effective manoeuvres began to worry
the rest of Europe which was beginning to fear German militarism,
and believed that such activity was directed towards overpowering
t h em .

By 1912 the whole world was poised on the brink of a highly
explosive situation. There was on the one hand the German Empire
with its rather dubious allies : Italy, Austria, and the sultanate on the
Bosphorous, and on the other side was a world wide coalition which
was determined to put an end to the sabre-rattling speeches of the
Kaiser and his ostentations military state. France dreamed of
revenge, England realized with distrust and anger that her foreign
markets, colonial designs and supremacy of the seas was being
threatened.

The 43 years of peace of this Second Reich later to be known
as the “good old days”, came to an end, and with them,
Germany’s longest ever period of peace time.
When war came, people rejoyced.

Each

country believed that it

would be victorious and that it would win the war quickly. A wave
of patriotism sent the troops into battle with flowers and cheers.
The Germans were particularly jubilant. They had been at peace
since 1871 . Their young did not know what war was like; none of
them had seen a battle-field. Life for them seemed dull when their

fathers and grandfathers rerninised about glorious battles. They
longed for heroic times. They longed to taste the danger of combat.
Their phiIOSOphy and teachers imbued them with a spirit of superio—

rity. Convinced of the invincibility of their arms, they were confident of victory.
Thus they welcomed war with all the pent up passions of
their frustrated souls.

The Kaiser and his government promised them that the war
would he over by Christmas. They would hardly get their fine
uniforms soiled.

Twenty five year old, young Adolf Hitler was among the cheering

multitudes in Munich on that hot day in August when war began.
He later recalled, “overpowered by rapturous enthusiasm I fell upon
my knees and thanked heaven from an overflowing heart for granting
me the good fortune of being allowed to live in these times."
Other young Germans including the playwright Carl Zuckrnayer, only
17 years at that time, expressed similar sentiments.

It was a war on a scale the world had never seen before.

During its 4 terrible years 1914-1918. 9,998,000 men lost their
lives in combat; 6,295,000 were heavily wounded, more than
14,000,000 were lightly wounded, about 6,000,000 were
reported missing.

14

