A FEW WORDS
We are proud to welcome you all once again. This time
the occasion is Eighteenth Annual Day Function. Our
departure from the normal practise .of organising this
Annual Day Function from September to August may take
some of you by surprise but this has been done only to
enable us
to prepare ourselves better
for
our
forthcoming trip to

Chandigarh

where the

Gosthi has

been sponsored to hold a festival of dramas during the
first week of October next.

| I.

में

As you are aware, our last Annual Day function was held
during December 1978 last year and the plays staged by
the Gosthi were NARAK GULJAR and SAJANO BAGAN.
Needless to say that both the plays were neatly produced
and enjoyed thoroughly by our patrons. We had also

"
‘
invited Defence Colony Bengali Association who had
staged D. L. Roy's immortal historical drama SHAHJAHAN. The former
Union Minister
of Education,

Dr. P C

Chunder was present on that day.

The entire sales proceeds of

the show amounting Rs. 1100/- was presented to Bengal Associatlon as our
donations
to the flood victims of West Bengal. We take this opportunity to
convey our sincere
to the members of the Defence Colony Bengali Association
for their kind

thanks

co-operation which contributed much towards the success of
our last Annual Day
Funcﬁon.
During the begining of the current year, we took part at the One Act Drama Competit
ion
(All India Laghu Natya Pratijogita) held at Allahabad. We are happy to inform our
Parrons that the Gosthi had won the Best Regional Language Drama award. The Gosthi
also took part at the Chittaranjan Park Mahila Sarnity's Annual Function where SAJANO
BAG AN was staged and the packed audience enjoyed every moment of it.
This year, being International Children's Year, the Gosthi has decided to play its humble
part by presenting Rabindra Nath Tagore's dance-drama TASHER DESH by its junior
members. We are sure all of you will enjoy the promising young artists presentation.
The Gosthi also believes that y0ung and talented groups should always be given necessary
encouragement. With this in view, we are introducing Shilpayan—a promising amateur
group to you, they will stage Samar Dutta's DINOSAURS which has been considered
by drama critics as outstanding among One Act Plays.

on the second day ofthe function, the Gosthi will present Manoj Mitra's PARABASH a

delightful comedy with sublimed pathos.

पृ

_

Annual Day function is also an occasion to remember all our friends and well-wishers

who are no more with us but their inspirations still provide us the necessary impetus
towards our goal for total theatre.
Lastly, we thank you all for your presence here this evening and we assure you of fine

entertaining evening that you are going to spew With US-

