३ 'I‘HUREEAY, .193} 16,"2015 (1;AGE 10)

३ NSD' Theatre Workshop on Design,
-' Technique ﬁres up local amateurs
Excelsior Correspondent

JAMMU, July 15: ’GOing by
the stirred-up creative emotions
and wholehearted response of
the participants attending the

pinnings " of various technical ance space, light design, Kirti V
departments of theatre but also Shanna-costume design, Prof
prepared them through practi- Mahendr‘a-posters & graphics,
cals, to apply them in their Arun Malik-mask & properties,
make-up, K Manoharan- sound
future theatre ventures.
S ingh
from design, M K Raina-production
Umesh
mounting and Barun Kar-design ' diary.
The lectures by local histori-_
ans and theatre experts such .as

" Prof Rekha Choudhary‘, Dr Lalit

णादृ

Gupta, Kavi Rattan, Makhan Lal
Saraf, ,Deepak Kumar, Mushtaq
Kak, Ifra ' Kak Dr Sudhir
Mahajan about heritage, inclusive plural culture and history
and practice of theatre in J&K
also was an eye opener, the participants said; 4
V Bapi Bose, the camp director

:.~ ~.«~.——.w_m.—vs.;—~ M. F“ .- ८. ५

.

or the workshop, while feeling
satisﬁed about the workshop
which has given a new vision to
the participants, lamented the
Maks and models prepared by the participants of Iheatre dismal lack of performance
-Excelsior/Rakesh spaces in ' the winter capital workshop.
where these young amateur theRangshala Jammu; said that for ater enthusiasts could put in to.
'on-going Theatre Workshop on amateur theatre actors and direc— action what they have learnt in रे
Design and Techniques, at the K tors like -us hailing from periph- the workshop. He was thankful

1. जाहु"

. 0* ,

' ’L Saigal Hall, there is no doubt

eral centers like Jammu, the to J&K Cultural Academy for
full hearted support and cotime opportunity. It has not only operation in organizing a sucmade us to observe things cessful workshop.
around us with new eyes but
also prepared us for active use
of imagination in our future
drama productions.
५
Sandeep of Amateur Theatre
Group Jammu, said that the systematic orientation to various
aspects of theater production
such as» stage designing, lights,
sound, make—up and poster
designing along with model
making, evolution of performing space and production
mounting, has given us a new
conﬁdence to stage plays.

that ﬁrst of its kind technical workshop has come as a life

दृ workshop ' held by National
School of Drama, New Delhi, in

7 the winter capital, will go a long
way in giving a ﬁllip to theatre
movement in the winter capital. v

Organized in collaboration
with

Jammu

and

Kashmir

। Academy' of Art, Culture and
l

Languages, the 20-day work, shop which started on June 30 at
the K L Saigal Hall, is being
टू … attended by 22 young participants drawn from various drama
clubs and folk theatre groups of
1
Z ’ Jammu and Kashmir divisions. ‘
The workshop being coordi-

f' nated by strict disciplinarian
renowned designer,

director
३ Other than

masterly dis-

हो Bapi Bose, along with lectures courses by Camp Director Bapi

v runnrtl pn~aunvar<q~ ran .y n.

F

s

by invited outside faculty comprising of leading nationally and
internationally
acclaimed
experts and practitioners of theatre, has not only introduced to
young and mostly amateur the-

‘ atre workers to academic under-

Bose on set design & model
making, production mounting,
the participants were especially
excited after attending technical

lectures of experts from outside
like Souti Chakraborty—perform—

