Th e P layw right:

Gohain

Baruah the

novelist,

the poet, and the dramatist was

Lakhimpur on 29th of Aghon, Saka 1973,

literature and culture.

born in North

during the depression years

of Assamese

During that time the medium of education throughout Assam

was Bengali, therefore he started his literary career in Bengali.

After passing the entrance examination he went to Calcutta for higher studies.
While staying in Calcutta he participated in literary seminars as a member of
“Asamiya Bhasar Unna‘ti Sadhini Sabha.”
After facing many ups and downs- while contributing towards, various brattches of Assamese literature and culture Pa‘dmanalh Gohain Baruah left for his
heavenly abode in the year 1946 in the month of April.
He

not only wrote stories,

novels

and

to enhance Assamese literary tradition.

poems but also

extensively wrote

plays

Amongst the eight plays written by him,

four are historical, one mythological, one farce, one comedy and ﬁnally the last one
was a play with strong reformative values. Comparatively the four historical plays
‘Jaymati’ (1900), ‘Gadadhar’ (1907), ‘Sadhani’ (1910), and ‘Lachit Borphukan’ (1915)
were of mediore level That is why they could create little interest in the minds

of audience and also provided little scope for dramatic impact. Meanwhile the process
oftranslation of Bengali plays to Assamese was gaining momentum and this induc
ced Gohain Baruah to write good plays with more social relevence and dramatic
quality. The next three plays of Gohain Baruah were of much social relevance
and showed the playwright’s desire to expose the cracks in the Assamese social
set up.

His concernfor the common man can very clearly be noticed in his ‘Gaonbura’.
Through this play he painted a true picture of the deplorable economic condition
of Assamese people, imperialistic and corruptible rule of the British and also the
plight of the masses. Probably during this period Gohain Baruah’s was the only
genuine attempt to portary the decaying inﬂuences that were gnawing away
at the
very structure of Assamese society. Despite the apparent comical behaviour of
some of his characters the underlying tragedy within them assume great
signiﬁcance in the play.

The changing phase
of Assamese society brilliantly portrayed by means of
certain comic situations, characters and languages which arose
out of the ignorance

of Assamese people of the English language.

I

