LEKUREN UDAND ZAALI
(There was a plenitude of children)
Synopsis ofa play by Vasant Kanetkar
The central characters of this comedy are a childless couple Raja, the husband, is a young music director
working for the ﬁlms. He is a dashing romantic type, one who loves to play with the children of the locality.
Rani, his wife, is a charming young disciplinarian. She keeps every little thing in their house spick and span,
tends the roses in the garden and cannot tolerate the least speck of dust or any contravention of the speciﬁc furniture
arrangements she has made. She does not like the children playing havoc with her garden.
.
The setting of all the three Acts is the cosy bungalow of the couple. A loyal old servant takes care of domestic

duties.

In the ﬁrst Act we also come across two other friends of the family : Dhatingan Guruji, an old senior

colleague of Raja and Rani, both of whom had served in his school prior to their marriage, and Marotrao, a ﬁlm
producer who strikes up a collaboration deal with Raja.
In the second Act, we see the bungalow veritably invaded by the two families respectively of Raja’s brother and
Rani’s sister. Altogether they bring along with them no less than 13 children. There is no need to say that the peace
of the house is disturbed almost permanently. The relatives appropriate all the comforts of the bungalow. What makes
matters more complicated is that each of the two parties wants to sponsor a child for adoption by Raja and Rani. The
tie is between Raja’s niece and Rani’s nephew. The heads of these two families and their wives are engaged in constant

altercations to which the competition about the adoption adds extra fuel.

When it is realised that the ﬁlm deal in which

Raja has mortgaged his bungalow is encountering difﬁculties and that there may be hard. times ahead for the music
director and his wife, the selﬁsh relatives immediately pack off and, so to say, leave the sinking ship. This is the. end of
the second Act.
7
‘
By the time the third Act opens, these relatives have carried away valuable furniture and furnishings from
the bungalow. When Raja returns to the house after some days’ absence he ﬁnds that his wife is away to see the doctor.
Meanwhile, the relatives who had plagued Raja and Rani in the second Act return, minus the children. .LI‘hey have
brought with them a plan to raise money at the cost of the bungalow and the garden. This is, of course, summarily

rejected by Raja who is hopeful of retrieving with the aid of hard work the fortune he has lost on his ﬁlms.

When

Rani returns home, it is revealed that she is pregnant. A doctor from the neighbourhood who is actually a family
planning promoter, is called for consultations. The doctor is very upset at the number of children of Raja’s brother
and brother-in-law. He immediately calls them at the family planning centre for the operation. He also stresses the
importance of ways and means to reduce the number of children. This development gives an entirely new twist to
the story. The plan of the relatives is no longer workable, and they are ﬁrmly asked to return the furniture which they
have taken away. The prospect of a child removes the last vestige of misunderstanding between Raja and Rani and as
the ﬁnal curtain rings down we see them immersed in the dreams of the future.
More than the subject, the play has its own novelty. For the ﬁrst time we see on the Marathi stage, a live
singing on the recorded music without accompaniments. Even more than this, is the treatment of the play itself.
There is a wide scope for audience participation in this play.

The title of the play is a part of sayings from the renowned Marathi saint Ramdas. The full charan is as follows:—
Lekuren Udand Zaali
To ti Laxmi Nighon Geli
When there was a plenty of children the wealth deserted. This shows that even in the past how the idea of
happy life was linked with the number of children i.e. family planning.

