i

EKJ I "l‘E. one of the leading theatre
groups from Mumbai. was found in 1981
under the guidance of Nadira Babbar.
Since then, the group has performed 20
productions such as (Vial-(Indus (710); 1's
Paar Kt: Nuzm'u. Jusmu ()(llmn, Lou'cr
Dept/is, The Desire ('mlcr The Elms,
Bullubhpm' Ki Ifoopkuﬂm, Rd)“ 1171 Nupnu,
Main Zimlu Hoom and Na Nag/Hui Nu
l'u’lmm: It is a repertoi'y of 35 trained
and experienced actors.
Ekjute has done plays written by eminent

A

playwrights such as Bhasa, Bertolt
Brecht, Albert Camus, Agha I‘Iashr
Kashmiri, Badal Sircar, Jaywant Dalvi,
John ()sborne, Eugene O'Neil, Arthur

Miller and Dario N).

In 1988 Ekju’te formed its own
professional children's theatre wing and
produced two plays Am; Picnic ('lmlcn and
की lat/alt Kt! Insuuf. The group has so far
conducted over 10 theatre workshops
among which three of them are conductet‘l
by its children's theatre wing.

ut

9196Maft
SET in the period of Roman Empire when their atrocities on Jews
have reached its peak, Iii/Huh Ki Lad/{1' is an authentic ’arsi
Theatre Play and is considered a classic.
The main Protagonist of the play is Azra Yahudi who stands for
love. brotherhood and sacrifice while the antagonist Brutus
symbolizes hatred and cruelty

Yahudi girl, Raheel is in love with Roman prince Marcus but he
betrays her and marries princess Daisia. Not accepting this.
Raheel revolts and tight for justice.
Ihhudi Ki Ludki is the stoiy of supreme sacriﬁce, betrayal.
intrigue, brotherhood and justice where Azra Yahudi comes out
victorious with his values and character against the mighty Roman
priest Brutus. The play also has comic interludes that are in no
way connected to the main plot . but are an integral part of Parsi
Theatre.

THOUGH it is the second time in twenty
years that I am doing this play in Delhi,
it was a big challenge for me to do this
play again. Because, big cast productions
have became more difﬁcult to organize.
But the strength of my dedicated group
gave me courage to do a play of this
magnitude.
Ihhudvi Ki Ladki is a classical play full of
grandeur, drama, style, music, dance,
comedy and tragedy in a fascinating
combination.

The main reason for me to do this play
was that thematically I found it most
relevant to our modern India today,
because it underlines that love and
brotherhood are the greatest virtues of
life.
The play presents the artist with unique
challenge to bring back the theatricality,
which is now absent from the present day
urbanized performances, Directors
generally delete comic interludes when
they do Parsi Theatre. But I have taken

special care‘to restore the comic
interludes of the play, which run like a

parallel plot thus retaining it's original
appeal.

It was sheer joy to do Yahudz' Ki Ladki in
all its authenticity, to give our modern
audience a glimpse of the glorious era of
the Parsi Theatre.

