Director's Note
श्व

After reading the novel Midnight’s Children in 1999.. I started feeling that certain incidents and situations in it were haunting
my thoughts, which I thought, to explore in a theatrical Production especially through the narrative techniques of the book (0f

showing against telling etc. )
The play on the stage has evolved through a series of ideas and improvisations experimented and executed by the students in
their class work. This is because the novel has quiet a lot of ideas and views behind each incident and situation that reveals
through magic realism. Sven the characters were extra-ordinarily different and diverse and therefore the point ofviews ofdifferent
students were allowed to play with a view to bring out the complexity ofthe novel. In fact, we based our stage adaptation on this
Screenplay of 'Midnight's Children' and hence we were continuously searching, a suitable Performance language for the
Production.
The prOtagonist—narrator strikes one, as not only preternaturally clever, but also as impish, omniscient and wholly incredible as a
human being. To explore this, we tried to create certain forms and conventions of Indian folk theatre in our presentation.
' re, we also tried tray keep the acting of different characters on their regional identity and cultural perception as much as

Saleem Sinai is, above all, a highly self-conscious narrator. he is often aggressive, coy, strident, subtle, fatalistic, rebellious,
finical, bawdy, flippant and grave. The dominant mood of the play seems to oscillate between the apocalyptic and expansive.
This particular style we would like to borrow from the Sanskrit Theatre where the Sutradhara goes through ajourney, which is
not exactly similar ofcourse. We have also used certain stage conventions ofSanskrit Theatre to have a better understanding of
the text.

Synchronizing national and domestic life, so that the odyssey of the Hssizes and the Sinais also becomes the odyssey of the
nation from 1915 to about the year 9.005. The clear rational analysis ofthe interaction between the personal and the national can
be analyzed under the facade ofwhimsical exhibition ofgramrrratical learning. End this, we have tried to develop on the stage by
evolving an idiom ofconventions, borrowing some grammar, ofcertain performance from Darsi theatre and space design from the
Mogul miniature paintings, by taking inspiration from Gscher's Graphic Designs.
In the novel the religious allegory is absorbed quickly into the political because religion has always been a potent weapon in the
hands of those who ruled India. "This has been explored on the stage by the fusion of Bollywood style of visuals to create this
unbelievable arnbience through false frames ofcinema projeCted through a big screen on the stage.

We would like the concept of'Dickle' as the storage ofhistory and myths to be brought in through the conceptual design ofspace
i.e. the two—corner spaces of Dadma and Saleem. Hlso a black hole inbetween them with a lot of whiteness in it. We are
contemplating video installation on this white sheet of flying carpet. Simultaneously, we also extend conceptual designs in
costumes, make-up and lights.

We did explore the music of the whole play from the background of everyday sounds, electronic sounds and Sufism, with deep
Hsian techno music inspired from the rhythms offolk music ofNorth India.

We have also tried to give rrrore importance to the group of Midnight’s Children with Lifafa Das and his peep show machine.

They are multilingual (Indian languages) so that it is totally communicative to the cosmopolitan audience.
I personally thank everybody who helped me in this production, particularly the lovable third year students who did toil and moil
to put up this production.

