SynoPsis
Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children is one ofthe most widely researched novels ofthe twentieth century. It appears to be a
metaphor, spiced with satirical commentaries, on the Political course of modern India and the infighting of its various social and
religious factions.

The most startling aspect of the novel's narratives is it's use of magic realism. The fabulous elements are Presented as real and

even normative throughout the Story. If the vision of India that emerges from Midnight’s Children is more a Product of the
novelist's imagination than the historian's search for truth, what difference should this make in articulating the novel's
relationship to our experience ofthe world it represents?

The novel blurs the distinctions we often make between Personal and public history. We expect the latter to transcend the
individual Perspective - a nation which in Midnight's Children comes to seem not only impossible to maintain, but also
oppressive. IfSaleem's history ofIndia raises questions about the enterprise ofrecording history in general, his refusal to impose
a conventional shape on his own story, raises questions about how we understand our own lives. Perhaps, a nation's history is
nuthing more but also nothing less than the shared personal history ofits individual citizens.
Rushdie presented this novel as the autobiography ofSaleem Sinai, writing from his current residence at a Bombay pickle factory
under the critical eye ofhis frequently interruptive ﬁancé Dadma.

Saleem Sinai was born at midnight. an unforgettable midnight of India's independence and found himself mysteriously
'handcuffed to history' by the coincidence. he is one ofthe 1,001 children born at the midnight hour, each ofthem endowed with
an extraordinary talent - and whose privilege and curse it is to be both master and victims oftheir times. Through Saleem's gifts —
an inner ear and a wildly sensitive sense of smell — we are drawn into a fascinating family saga set against the vast, colourful
background ofthe India ofthe 20th century.
It begins with the story of Saleem's grandfather, Doctor Hadam Hziz and of his courtship with Naseem. This incident

introduces one of the novel's central metaphors in the form of the perforated sheet through which the doctor is permitted to
examine Naseem when he is summoned by the girl's father. Dropriety dictates that the girl not be allowed to appear before a '
strange man and so, the doctor is ordered to look at her only through a hole cut in the centre of a sheet and only examine one part
ofher body at a time.

Ofcourse, this is all a ruse by the girl's father, who hopes to marry his daughter to the promising young German—educated doctor.
The ploy works, and they are married, alter which Hadam takes Naseem with him to his new job in nga. The image of the
sheet is an important one for the narrative of the work, for it enacts a delicate interplay between partial and whole vision,

fragmentation and unity. Hadam is seduced notjust by the parts ofthe girl that he sees through the hole, but also by the idea that
he can form an image of the whole based solely on the parts that he has seen. This idea becomes increasingly important as the
novel proceeds as Saleem attempts to present a whole version of his own life and identity throught the presentation of an
experience that becomes marked more and more by fragmentation and dissolution.

The image also applies to the nature of India, in so far as it is a single nation, composed of many different regions, peoples,

cultures and languages. The metaphor suggests that beyond the perforated sheet ofnationalist discourse, resides a whole that is
only imaginable as a series ofdisconnected parts.

