0n the way to nga, they stay in Amritsar. Hadam witnesses the massacre at ]allianwala Bagh on 13th Hpril
1919, a seminal

event in winning popular support for the Independence movement. This is only the first example in the novel ofthe

connections
that Saleem is attempting to uncover and narrate between his family history and India's history. Then the story moves forward
to 1949..
Hadam and Naseem have relocated to nga where the doctor has involved in business and in the fight for Independence and
where they have raised their five children. The next instrusion ofhistory into the Private lives ofthis family comes in the ﬁgure of
the poet Nadir Khan, a personal secretary to the pro—Indian Muslim political leader, Mian Hbdullah. When Hbdullah is
assassinated, Hadam hides the poet in his cellar. Mumtaz, Hadam and Naseem's daughter, see to the poet's needs and
eventually the two fall in love and later they get married secretly. Murntaz thenjoins her husband in the cellar where they live for
two years, until her father discovers that the marriage has never been consummated. Ht this point, the youngest daughter ofthe
family, Gmerald, reveals to her lover Major Zulfikar, the fact that her family is harbouring Nadir Khan. Khan escapes from the
cellar, leaving a note behind, in which he divorces Mumtaz. heartbroken, Mumtaz marries Hhmed Sinai, who changes her
name to Hmina.

W and Hmina more to ’Delhi and latter to Bombay. Now, Hmina is Pregnant. Hs the clock ticks down to midnight of
Hugust 15th 194.7 and the arrival of Indian Independence, Hmina feels labour pain. Ht the stroke of midnight she is blessed
with a son, while just down the hall another little boy is born to Vanita, a poor woman who has been impregnated by Willairn

Methwold. an Englishman who is leaving India for "home".

Ht this point, the narrative takes one ofits most startling and significant turns, for Mary Dereira, a midwife at doctor Narlikar's
nursing home, switches the children. Mary is in love with ]oseph D’Costa, a Political radical, and she hopes to win his approval
by condemning the child ofprivilege to a life ofpoverty while giving the child ofpoor Vanita a life ofwealth and ease. Saleem Sinai
is thus the biological child ofVanita-who dies in childbirth—and the now-departed William Methwold. Torn by guilt over what
she has done, Mary becomes Saleem's ayah. Hmina and Hhmed's son Shiva are raised by Vanita's husband Wee Willie
Winkie.
One day, Saleem discovers his telepathic powers when he is hiding in a washing chest, shocking to the young boy. Also, he snilfs
a pyjama cord up his nose, which somehow unlocks his ability to read minds. he soon learns that he can listen to the voices ofall
Indians, amongst whom he discovers the Midnight Children, the one thousand other children born in the first hour of Indian
Independence. Saleem forms the Midnight Children's Conference (MCC) and seeks to use this group as a way ofuniting their
fledgling country. The Conference, like the country however, quickly falls apart, under the influence of class, race language and
political differences. It is also during these nightly "meetings" in Saleem's mind that he discovers his nemesis - Shiva, the
biological child ofSaleern’s parents.
After an accident, in which Saleem looses his fingertip, the doctors tell his parents that his blood type matches neither oftheirs.
Mary Dereira admits to having switched Saleem with her own child at birth. Significantly, the entire family, even the normally
authoritarian and unforgiving Naseem, finds that they cannot imagine Saleem in any way other than as part of the family. Soon
after this, Saleem's parents arrange for him to have an operation in which his chronically clogged sinuses are drained. After the
operation, Saleem finds that his telepathic powers are gone. Soon after this, the family moves to Pakistan where Saleem realises

that he is in love with his sister, now renamed as, ]amila Singer and confesses this to her leading to her horror.
Hmina becomes pregnant again, but when the Indo-Dakistan war of 1965 begins, Hmina, along with her unborn child, Hhmed

