and most of Saleem's family are killed in the bombing. Saleem himself is knocked unconscious during the bombing and loses his
UlClTlOT)’ .

Saleem is now working in a secret unit ofthe Pakistan army. After his operation, he had lost all his telepathic powers but he now
possesses an acute sense of smell. he is thus put to work as a tracking-dog during Pakistan's invasion ofits eastern wing, which
had known to be as Bangladesh.

Seeking to escape the horrors ofthis war he encounters another ofthe Midnight Children, Darvati—the-Witch. She calls out his
name and he finally remembers who he is. Using her magic, Darvati renders Saleem invisible and smuggles him back into India
where he goes to live with Darvati in the Magician’s Ghetto in old Delhi.

Darvati and Saleem fall in love, but Saleem refuses to marry Darvati, for he sees in her face the image of]amila, and the memory of
his incestuous love is unbearable. Rather than admit the truth, Saleem claims that he is impotent. Darvati, who desperately
wants a child, uses her magic to summon Shiva. She becomes pregnant and Saleem feels honour bound to marry her. Their son
Hadam Sinai is born at midnight on 25th ]une 1975, at the Precise moment, that the state of emergency is declared in India.
Theylivetogether for two years until Shiva, who has become a major in the Indian army, leads a raid on the Magician5 Ghetto

Ii 1द्धू1र्वाश्या
EarvatiiskilledandSaleemis taken Prisoner. he learns that Shiva has betrayed the surviving 581 Midnight Children
all ofwhom are being heldin a prison called the Widows hOStel where they are sterilized'in what Saleem calls their"sperectomy:
the draining ofhope". With this operation, all ofthe children lose their midnight—granted magical gifts, and they are released.

In the final part, Saleem explains how he returns to Bombay with his son, and finds his old ayah Mary who now owns a pickle
factory. Saleem narrates the events ofhis life up to the very moment in which the narration takes place, as he explains how he
came to the pickle factory, met Padma, and became the pickle factory manager. 'Ihe novel concludes in two modes: both hopeful
and despairing. On the one hand, Saleem hopes that his son-who has finally, after three years, said his ﬁrst word,
"abracadabra"—will carry on the act of narration and memory begun by Saleem. On the other hand, Saleem foresees for himself
only dissolution and destruction. Throughout the narrative, he has been hinting at the "cracks" that he finds in his body,
claiming that he is falling apart. having reached the end of his story, the effort of telling it has apparently left him drained of all
energy and hope and he can look forward now to a future in which the cracks will spread finally reducing him "to specks of
voiceless dust”.

Saleem is an extraordinary character, not a hero in the traditional sense but a deformed symbol, a vessel for carrying and

displaying the problems and hopes ofthe people ofIndia.

We've seen this mix ofmagical thinking and political reality before in the works of Gunter Grass and Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
What sets Rushdie apart is his mad prose pertechnics, the exuberant acrobatics of rhyme and alliteration, pun, wordplay
proper and "Babu" ﬁnglish chasing each other across the page in a dizzying, exhilarating cataract of words. Rushdie can be
laugh-out-loud funny, but make no mistake. The author's outrage lends his language wings. Midnight's Children is Salman
Rushdie's irate, affectionate love song to his native land—not so different from a Bombay talkie, after all.

