Music Composition
Born in Kerala in 1979, he is exclusively trained in south India traditional drumming since childhood. he has graduated From the
School of Drama, Calicut University, Kerala and has conducted various music and theatre workshops in India and ]aPan.
Currently he is learning at the Theatre Training 6c Research Programme, Singapore.

Song Composition 6: Lyrics
Hjay Kumar, a graduate From Patna University, passed out of National School of Drama in 2000 with a specialization in
Acting. he has received theatre music training under 13.V. Karanth, Sanjay Upadhyay, Bhaskar Chandawarkar etc. Besides he
has also undergone 20 days ﬁlm appreciation course with Gayatri Chatterjee.
Hjay, a versalite actor-director—singer, started his theatre career in स्मृति) in Patna with Irman Kala Manch's Bidesia.

'Ihenafter, he broadened his talent in direction, music (as director), lyrics and singing and worked with the sense ofcreativit in
almost 50 Plays. he has worked with the NSD Repertory Company as an actor (2000—09.) and direCted the Programme of
modern Poetries, Vachik. he also has worked with the directors of repute like Naseeruddin Shah, Bansi Kaul, B.V. Karanth,
Roysten Hbel, Hnuradha KaPur, Kirti ]ain, Ram Gopal Bajaj, Robin Das, Sanjay Upadhyay, 'I’riPurari Sharma, Rita G.
Kothari, ]hon Ruseel Brown etc. he has acted in more than 70 stage Plays, Poems, stories etc. he has also worked as a music
director in more than 30 Plays, lyrics in more than ten Plays and has sung solo in many Plays.

Hpart from theatre, he has some films and serials to his credit. To name a few, he has acted in the film, 'Sona Bai Ki Kahani'

directed by Marian Chandy, and a‘ serial 'Kisse ek hazar', directed by Inpinder Bhatia. Ht present he is working on KHThH
GHYHN style—a traditional art From, where the Performer can do the job of acting, narrating and singing alone. Besides, he is
also working on the musical recltation and Performance ofpoetries.

H5 writer : KHUN ThHGWH NHGRIYH LOO'I'HL 110, Play based on KHShI KR HSSI, novel by KHShI
NHIh SINGb; U]HLG K6 MUSHhIB Play based on story be VI]HYDHN DGThH, ]OO’I’H ChHKRHM.
based on a folk. Now he is a visiting faculty for ”Dream music in the National School ofDrama and he is going to work with the

Royal Shakespeare Company in London from 9.006.

