Special Guidance
Graduated From the National School of Drama. New Delhi with specialization in acting in 1993, he received the Charles
Wallace llndia Trust Hward in the year 1999—1000, to pursue his studies in the UK at the Central School of Speech & Drama.
London, where he completed a certificate course in M H performance Studies and Voice Studies. Hmong his important

performances are in ’hooriya' directed by Hnamika haksar l I 997 l ; 'Sundari : Hn Hctor Prepares' by Hnuradl1aKapurl1998l;
'Odysseus in H Ramayan Odyssey" by ]atinder Verma of Tara Hrts. London; 'Makeup' by Hnuradha Kapur (2oozl; ’No
boat in Sight’ by M akoto Sato and Hnuradha Kapur lzoozl; 'The Hntigone project' by Eiin Lall and Hnuradha Kapur

( 1003l . he has travelled widely with his performances. Hmong other visits to other countries are Germany. ]apan, Brazil,
Dortugal, UK, Czech Republic and South Korea. h e has worked in several collaborative projects. the most recent being Babur
Nama: Memories of a Legend a collaborative multi media performance between Bangladesh. India, Nepal. Dakistan, and

Srilanka, which opened in Tokyo in November 9.00.]. and Cshode pao \N’ale Hdmi, a translation of lieiner M uller's Centaurs
that was a collaboration with the musician Chandran V. and which was directed by Hnuradha K apur which opened in Murnbai
( 9.005l .

Hmong the films that has worked in are ' S anshodhan' and ’hazar Chaurasi Ki M a' by Govind Nihalani, 'Kacchhe Dhage' by
Milan Luthria, 'Charas' by Tigmanshu Dhulia, 'Yahaan' by Sujith Sarkar, and 'Seven Islands and a M etro' by M adhusree
Dutta. Hmong the award winning documentaries he has acted in are ’Memories of Fear' an 'Scribbles on Hkka’ both by

M adhusree Dutta.
harish Khanna has conducted several workshops on voice, speech and acting in India and abroad. Hmong the cities he has

worked in are ]ammu, Srinagar, Mandi, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Dune and Delhi in ]lndia; Daegu and Tokyo in South Korea
and ]apan respectively.

harish Khanna has been involved in theatre therapy programmes initiated by the Raiiv Gandhi Foundation in ]ammu and
Kashmir For the last three years.

