' M0 0 MAL
- dance-drama in the operic style of Rajasthan)
Technique Adopted—-—Rajasthan has a very rich tradition of Khyals (Operas) in folk
style, depicting several episodes of social, historical and mythological origin. Some of the
important ones are the "KUCHAMANI", “TURRAKALAGI”, I & “RAMMATS .
" ASDHARIS" and “KHYALS OF CHIDAWA”. The research section of the Bhartiya
Lok Kala Mandal has conducted systematic study and survey of these Knyals and have
ln the present composition. effort has been made. to
studied their techniques in detail.

utilize the technique adopted in these Khyals to a great extent.

The mode of expressmn in

this production is purely operic. the presentation-technique is modern _to suit the modern
stage and the story is based on several versions of Moomal‘ prevalent in Raiasthan.

Music plays a very important part in Rajasthan operas, the main function of which
is to elevate the drama and give expression to the characters through lyrical dialogues.
Music and drama in Rajasthan operas thus play a primary role and dance a secondary one.
We have also tried to bring the Rajasthan folk and Khyal music in forefront and
have utilized the classical tunes only to produce effects and moods at different places.
The “Moornal” therefore, gives a glimpse of the best, that we have in Rajasthan
operas and folk dramas and is a definite break from the modern techniques of Indian
ballets, dance, dramas and other modern and sophisticated forms, prevalent today.

isr SCENE
KEERS HELP MAHENDRA TO CROSS THE RIVER “KAK”.

Mahendra, the prince of Amarkot, on hearing the story of Moomal's beauty, comes
to Jaisalmer to have a glimpse of the Princess and win over her love. He comes to the
bank of the river Kak. where the Keers are enjoying their festive nights. through dance and
songs. The Keers tell him of the great difficulties in winning over Moomal’s love. Ultimately they agree to take him to the other side of the river by a boat.

2 ND S CE N E
MAHENDRA MEETS MOOMAL’S PET BIRD ON HIS WAY TO
MOOMAL’S PALACE.
M-ahendra meets the pet bird cf Moomal on the way to her palatial gardens.
bird too, discourages him and advises him to return back.

The.

3RD SCENE
MAHENDRA MEETS MOOMAL FOR THE FIRST TIME.
The maids of Moomal are busy in adoring and dressing up Moomal, in the best
possrble manner as it was the day, when several Princes from different parts of Rajasthan
were to come for winning her love by unclustering the clustre of silk fibres according to
the conditions laid down by her.
Several princes come and return dejected and frightened by seeing a lion guarding
her gates. Prince Mahendra, of Amarkot also takes his turn. At the very first look,
Moornal gets attracted towards him and sends a message through her maid to him, not to
'
"'
३ "३३ only a dummy one. Mahendra. ultimately unclustres the
after mutual and formal introduction. Their first

