THE I’LAYWRIGHT: WILLIAM SAROYAN
American author and drama—
tist, William Saroyan (1908-81)
is remarkable in the history of
the American drama for his consistent optimism, unaffected by

historical change or public taste.
Without denying the miseries of
modern society and the material
world, Saroyan affirms an
innate and universal benevo—
lence in mankind in the face of
evil and corruption. Most
frequently, the characters in his
dramas are simple people who,
having been rejected by society,
intuitively find happiness in
sharing the mysteries and beauties of life. The plays are loosely
constructed, with highly emotional dialogue, and reﬂect the

spontaneity of life as envisioned
by the author. The approach to
reality is poetic, deriving from
an emotional perception of truth
and a need for an innocent
enjoyment of life.
In the late 19305, when the

American public seemed to
share the playwright's need for
optimism, Saroyan's long oneact play My Heart ’5 in the Highlands (1939) appeared, establishing his popular reputation.
Because of the dramatist's
rambling dialogue and insufficiently disciplined thematic
structure, the play was adversely received by a number of
critics, but Saroyan defied them.
The same characteristics were a
target for critics even in his later

plays. The Time of Your Life
(1939), a better-integrated play,
was successful with both critics
and public. It was awarded the
New York Drama Critics Circle
award and the Pulitzer Prize;

Saroyan rejected the latter.
The advent of World War II
brought a sharp decline in
Saroyan's popularity; his optimi srn seemed no longer relevant. Nonetheless, he refused to

conform to public taste. In 1941
The Beautiful People, although a
well-structured play, was unconvincing in its presentation of
humble people who overcome
poverty through love and
fantasy. After 1945, in the face
of demands made by the political and philosophical climate,
Saroyan seemed more and more
out of date. By 1949, when both
Don 't Go Away Mad, set in a
hospital for the hopelessly ill,
and Sam Ego '5 House, which
draws an analogy to the United
States, were published, Saroyan

was attempting to grapple with
the new post-war morality, as
he did in The Slaughter of the Innocents (1952), in which man is

identified as the author of his
own ills.
Saroyan never regained the
success he had enjoyed before
the war. The failures of Love's
Old Sweet Song (1940), in which
a migratory worker from Oklahoma gives birth while camping
on a California lawn, Iim Dandy

