In recent years such great concern has been demons
trated over the languishing

health of our Arts. that a very relevant fact has been
relegated to obocurity. It is this
important lapse to which, I wish to invite the attention
of Art patrons everywhere.
The lapse that I refer to is signiﬁcant for more reason
s than one. It is strange that
it should have escaped our notice that the diognosticia
ns are also ailing-and may even
be helping to infect the patient. I refer of course to
the drama critics, reviewers &
commentators. that breed of hard working, long
suffering journalists who have been

charged with the task of looking upon the incredible disarray
of our ‘Art' and saying
something coherent about it. The co-existence of comme
rcial & purely artistic art
forms in almost all mediums of artistic expression have
further aggrevated the situation

whereas the protagonists of commercial activity persist in
their belief that the function
of criticism was to provide as much space as
possible in the print & broad casting

media to help sell their shows. The spokesmen of ‘Art’
on the other hand, though
also grateful for rave reviews & good coverage appear to be
equally interested in the
reﬂective and analytical aspect of the critical process.

The critic is thus compelled by circumstances to tread on thin ice.
His task,
however becomes awe inspiring when the critic also becomes aware of and
alive to
the contemporary crisis in performing arts.
At criticism is today in a deplorable state
partly because the critical process has failed to keep pace with the
institutional &
aesthetic changes that have been occuring on the general Art scene.

Performing arts are being crippled by the inﬂationary increase in

expenses

accompanied by a corresponding decrease in private giving. It is a strange
paradox
that while on the one hand the rise in demand for the arts & the increasing populari
ty
of the arts means that arts organisations must provide more services to
the Community-

which in turn means more performers and staff; for arts organisations are labour
intensive, yet on the other hand the Governments for reasons of their own security often
prefer to keep their strangle hold on arts organisations & their sophisticated
shockles
tightly clasped on creative artists. Most important, the traditional sources ()fsupport
particularly the private institutions & erst while royal house holds are reducing rather
than increasing their subsidies & patronage.

