. t” 3 g C: 2

About Shri Ram Centre :
Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally
known as the Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in
the Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural organization, its objective
is to nurture and develop talent in the performing arts and its
programmes are organised towards this end.

Theatre Repertory :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the
leading companies of the country. The repertoire of oustanding
plays performed by the repertory including Sakhararn Binder, Jis
Lahore Nahin Dekhya Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda
have contributed significantly to Hindustani drama in the country.
Besides performing regularly in Delhi, the Reperotry also stages
sponsored shows in other parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western
and modern plays in various» styles and forms under the direction of
such eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth,
Rajendranath, B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory
has performed 60 Hindi plays since its inception.

Acting Course :
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing
Arts conducts a two year part time training programme. The 1 st
year is devoted to in-depth study of all aspects of theatre and in
the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into
production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western and modernIndian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of actors
to sustain the Hindi—theatre's future. Students who complete the
course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our Repertory
or join the National School of Drama or the Media.

Children Theatre Workshop :
The SRC Children's Theatre Workshop is a one-month production
oriented workshop conducted during summer vacation every year

under the guidance of a renowed Camp director. This feature is
aimed to impart theatrical values to children and to improve their
communication skills.
SRC Kavi Sarnrnelan
Every year the Shri Ram Centre organizes a Kavi Sarnrnelan. Eminent
poets like Neeraj, Bal Kavi Bairagi, Ashok Chakradhar and others
grace the occasion with their poetry. The Kavi Sarnrnelan is held in
the honour of Late Lala Shri Ram.

