mid day

w ‘

<aturday. septwulw‘: 19, 2015, mumbai. web www rrndrlavrorn. twitter @rmdjiay

Ageless Anji
Explaining the long life of a Hindi satirical comedy
steeped in dated humour, but still going strong
have a faint recollection of a
review which later termed the
play “bold” and “ahead of its
time" because of the heroines
rhetoric on surviving sexual
\iolence.
The reviewer said Priya
Tendulkar's stage role of Anji
complemented her popular
television role of the civic
rights-conscious Rajani. In
1991. I saw Anji's original
LATE
pl ayvrigh t
Vijay Marathi version in Shivaji
'I‘endulkar “Tote one of his Mandir, which also had Priya
least performed (and least cel- in the lead. The Marathi ver—
ebrated)
Marathi
plays, sion had downplayed the
Chiranjeev
slapstick moments, which is
Saubhag'akangshini in 1983. whythe satire on a duplicitous
It was translated in Hindi in rnisogynist society came
the same year as ‘Anji' by across more effectively. But
renowned litterateur Vasant the Hindi and the English
Dev and mounted thereafter versions shared common
by director Dinesh 'I‘hakur's ground in the portrayal of an
Ank theatre group. The central unconventional gender percharacter of Anji was essayed spective. What stood out for
by 'I‘endulkar's daughter Priya, me was the protagonist’s
\whereas 'I‘hakur played the indomitable
spirit,
her
\Ltr'adhar'. The play got a warm strength to rise above an
quption at the box oﬂice for unfortunate sexual assault.
e next ﬁve years, शक्ति।" which She underlined her right to
was temporarily stopped and life after rape.
then revived in 1993.
Credit was due to the playwright for putting the thought
Revival movement
across in so many words at a
Anji is soon approaching the time when the term rape sur-

that specific social context, I

connected with the plays p05<
itivity.

Sheer years
Alter a passage of 25 years, as I
revisited Anji in the same audi—

su‘meaha

toriurn in September 2015, the

re 1 |<a r—m h atre

thetic for me; it catered to a
different dynamic, much dif-

800th show, as it continues to

vivor was not in circulation; it

attract Mumbaikars in its was the time when the public
revived avatar many years after debate over transfer of onus
the death of its playwright, the from rape victims to perpetratranslator, the director and the tors had not progressed. In
lead actress.
such times, the play success—
I recall catching Anji in its fully focused on the general
prime at Prithvi some time in societal contempt for over1985 on an otf—college day. I aged single women. And in

play underlined a different aes-

ferent than what it evoked at
one point. I wondered about
the factors that have coritributed to its staying power. I IN CHARACTER: Preeta Mathur, lead actor of Anji at Prithvi Theatre in Juhu. PICS/SAWED SAMEER ABEDI
pondered on the plausible rea- particularly the lecherous col—
sons as to why Ank has stuck to league at Anji‘s workplace, her Anji goes to Raiasthan
Anji’s script for decades. Anji’s attention—seeking sister, the
Kota-based theatre director
its title to Anjalr' Shanna Urf
current uninterrupted journey English-speaking ‘dream suit—
rests on the shoulders of Preeta or’ she meets during a train
Rajendra Panchal (who hails
Anji. He has made Anji's story
Mathur (Thakur’s wife) and journey. As Anji is nota realisfrom the National School of
into an open-ended plot
Mukul
Dev
(sutradhar). tic play, action on the stage is
Drama) has also mounted Anji where the sexual assault is
Mathur and Dev are delighted suggested by way of mime and
in Kota, Jaipur and Delhi. He
kept as a vague reference.
about their bond with the minimal props. Caricature
will stage the play in Jodhpur Anji declares in the end that
Hindi theatregoers. The free— movement
consequently
in the upcoming 0m Shivpuri she is far from self-pityTOn
ﬂowing nautanki form of Anji ensures laughter.
Memorial Drarna Festival in
the contrary, she is a
allows them scope for a direct
One can clearly attribute
October. Panchal has played
complete woman who does
dialogue with the audience. Anji’s success to the comic
around with Tendulkar's
not need marriage to fulﬁll
Members of the audience also, relief it provides. As Preeta
love to be talked to; they enjoy Mathur (who has played Anji
script, starting from changing her dreams.
the jokes in the play cracked at in 500 shows) puts it, “when
the expense of critics and the Tendulkar spoke to Dinesh
allied breed. The ‘live’ compo- Thakur about its Hindi ren- Beyond slapstick
new dialogues. They have
nent of harmonium and tabla. dering, he had asked us to
promised her a twitter handle
make Anji a light entertain— ‘have fun.’ We are living up to While it is welcome that Anji along with an e-media edge.
ment package. At one point, that mandate till date. Anji is enjoys patronage, one deﬁ- But Anji’s minor makeover
the play introduced a gim- tremendously optimistic about nitely cannot relate to the does not make a lasting
micky fourth bell which life; she is hopeful of a better social situation in which Anji impact. It may guarantee
accommodated
latecorners tomorrow and our play does operates. Anji does not belong occasional giggles, but the cosinto the auditorium. That justice to that attitude.” to the contemporary universe. metic changes do not update a
became another added layer of Mathur is convinced of Ank’s In this day and age in a city character. Anji’s frame of ref—
fun and interaction with the reasons for continuing with like Murnbai, single unmar- erence is rooted in the bygone
audience. Some of Anji’s char- Anji.
ried
women
form
a times. As a 29-year—old midacters are obviously comic,
formidable vital workforce. dle-class Brahmin unmarried
Many women have chosen salaried job holder, Anji lacks
single life as a healthy lifestyle the vibe of the times.
option. Cities like Murnbai in
Actor Sanjay Mone (who
fact celebrate individual co-starred with Priya as the
choices. Mumbai has evolved sutradhar in the Marathi pro—
over the years and factored in duction in 1991) has a theory
solo travel, solo accommoda- for Anji’s success. He says the
tion and solo amusement play, an average creation of
options for single women. 'I'endulkar', was merely fortuWhile
social
pressures nate to get a Hindi translator
remain, single women have and director, which helped it
managed to lead vibrant self- to survive the passage ofyears.
respecting lives.
The success can also be attrib—
But 'I‘endulkar’s Anji is uted only to the Hindi theatre
trapped in the eighties. Her goers’ afﬁnity towards slapdilemmas do not connect with stick buffoonery.
the current complex realities.
“The play did not do well
For instance, Anji takes pride in Marathi because it was
in the fact that she does not pretty ordinary. The widely
dine out with men. She deﬁnes exposed Marathi theatregoer
her moral code and celebrates could not have been enter—
her restrictive social tenet. For tained for long by a light
a Mumbaikar (male or female, comedy on a serious subject.”
single or married) Anji comes
While we wish a robust
from another planet where long life to Anji, the play cer—
eating out and socializing are tainly makes us wonder about
illegitimate choices; and a the gambles in the world of
social do can generate tremen- theatre entertainment.
dous guilt.
The Ank theatre group has Sumedha Raikar-Mhatre is a
tried to contemporize Anji’s Murnbai-based culture chronicler.
portrayal by implanting a few

/.

