K EG E L A M J A
( A SYNOPSIS )

_

This is a story of love, misunderstanding and ﬁnal reconciliation—a theme de
ar to the Manipurl hearts.
And it is set against a legendary background with a royal atmosphere, King Laijing Punsiba of the pres
ent
village Moirang ( once a capital in ancient days ) was growing old, but without any re
cognised issue. Remembering the past, he was in search of a prince to succeed him to the throne. Misund
erstanding the news, Tonu
Laijing Lembi ( sometime a queen in his court ) made an escape to the hills with her son, a small boy, Khon
gjomba but found themselves in the hands of the tribal warriors of the hill Mahou. They
were brought in

the presence of the Chief,

Lanthou Yangba and the son was to be murdered as a part of the sacriﬁce.

But suddenly recognising the queen to be the wife of his old friend, the Chie
f set them free and took care of
them for many years to come. Prince Khongjomba ( unrecognised and almo
st an orphan ) came to Moirang

and fell in love with Pidongnu, the daughter of the noble Ngarunghanba, deeply but si
lently. But he found
a powerful rival in the adopted prince Nidram who, as is inevitable, played the villain.
While going to withness the traditional ﬁsh-catching festival in the Lake Loktak, meant only
for the ladies of the royal court,
Prince Khongjomba was beaten seriously by Nidram and his party and wa
s brought to the house of the
noble Ngarunghanba by his servant ( Chaoba Panganba ). Khongjomba coul
d tell neither father’s name
nor mother’s to the noble and was almost beaten when his daughter, Pidongnu, came fo
rward to defend her
lover. In the meantime Tonu Laijing Lembi also entered and was immediately reco
gnised as the wife of his
old friend. Trial in the royal court followed and at last Khongjomba was recogn
ised as a prince to succeed
his father. Pidongnu became united with prince Khongjomba.
‘KEGE LAMJA’ is a play in the folk category. This simple memora
ble theme of love is further
woven into the texture of a series of folk songs and dances—the soul of Mani
puri culture. Four types of dance
are presented in this play amongst which the well known “Mahou Naga. Dance
” ( a group dance of

