DARPANA and BIIAVAIrA-il’he folk drama of Gujarat
The word ‘liharai‘ is derived from Bhavan meaning a
prayer to the (iods. The form of ‘Bhavai’ has its roots in
‘l’rekshanaka‘t one of the L‘parupakas described in Bharat
Xatya Shastra. Prekshanaka is defined as a drama to be
performed before an audience on a Sufficiently wide road,
courtyard of a temple or of a palace. \\'ith the passage of
time, this form assumed the shape of Nautanki in U.P..
Swang in I l211‘_\:ll1:l. Maach in MP. Tamasha in Maharashtra,
jatra in Bengal. Yakshagaan in lx'arnataka. l n the fourteenth
Century, .\sait ’l‘haker, a Brahmin poet of Siddhpur in
North (iuiarat was ostracised by his caste because he rescued

a Patel girl from the Muslim Suba. Losing his ancestral
profession of priesthood, he started writing and performing
Bharai \‘eshas to sustain his famih'. Vesha is a single unit.
I n a performance of Miami, there are a number of Veshas
with social, historical. and mythological themes. In vesha,

a simple stor} or incident is performed using music, dance,
rhythmic

dialogues,

acrobatics,

impromptu

satire

and

No intricate paraphernalia like stage, lights, sets., etc.
are required because it is performed in an open arena
surrounded by the audience. General lighting is provided by
Mashals and for particular lighting, to show facial expressions, Ix’akadas (small mashals) are held in the hands by
characters.
In Darpana, since I 960, lx'ailash Pandya and Damini
Melita, under the directorship of Mrinalini Sarabhai made a

concentious effort to organise Bhavai Camps, seminars, short
term courses for actors and writers and performances of
traditional and creative Bhavai veshas. ‘Leela,’ a full length

play based on this form was written by Bakul Triparhi
and successfully performed by Darpana artists. Thus a
movement has begun to revive this form but there is still
much to be done. An authentic school to teach this forn.
the prime need in (iuiarati theatre. Darpana has taken a step
in this direction and with the help of traditional artists of
Bhax'ai. is Working on a Rangashala where these artists

live together, work
save

humor.

this

t( ) t ry .

l. a nd a Z 0 o l a n

form

together and study together. Let

from extinction.

Darpana

is

us

determined

