for ever imprinted in my inner mind and my inner self.

This, Natya-Sadhana, is the most difficult task. But
to achieve it, like a yogi, is my aim. And walking along
that path, my only rewards are the pure knowledge and
the accompaning bliss, which makes my life a fulfilled one.”

( B i0—d a t a)

Acted various types of roles in more than 100 plays, assisted
.lirection and production of many plays. An artist and
director in Indian Peoples Theatre Association, Natamandal,
Darpana, ctc., worked with experienced directors like
jayashanker Sundari, Dina Gandhi, Mrinalini Sarabhai.
C. C. Mehta, Jashawant

Diploma

Thakar. Received

production and acting from Asian Theatre

Institute,

for
New

Delhi, in I 9:39. Awarded first prize in All India Folk Drama
Competition for “Paheli Pyali”, a play in Gujarati.
Was in All India Radio as a drama artiste. Written
children plays and folkplays. Awarded ﬁrst prize for the
play ‘Mai’ and ‘Amma’, which were performed 250 times

actually happened. Since
the drama entered at a
very early period of my
life, I have been kept far

away from living my
natural self. To such an
extent that now I do not
like to live the rest of my
life without taking part
in drama,

I have performed many roles in various plays. I have
loved them. And I am proud of them. But when I find
all these roles crowding my mind, I get lost. Fear grips
my heart, when I recollect all the roles I played, which
were hammered out from the writer’s workshop in
Darpana. Some so diﬂicult and challenging that they tested
all my abilities as an actress. In playing these roles, I
derived immense joy. Only then did I realize why a mother
loves her child born of her own ﬂesh and blood. In
my own way, I too have tried to care, to love and to
create these roles. In the brief life-span of an actress.
what more achievement can one expect than this.

all over Gujarat. \\"on twice, best acting prizes in Gujarat
(Bio-data)
State Drama Competition.

Experimented in production of Bhavai and conducted
Bhavai Camp in Darpana with traditional Bhavai artists.
icipated in traditional veshas of Bhavai viz. ‘Joothan’
‘Zanda Zoolan’ and ‘Chhel Batau’.
Travelled to UK. (197]) and USA. (1972).
China ( l 978)

Da mi n i M eh ta

“1 am not exaggerating when I say that threefourth of
my life has been spent in performing different roles in
various plays and only one part of my life I have lived
218

m

0 “I I] .

Others used to say that, dont bring drama into your life,
bring life into the drama. But in my life, the reverse has

In 1936-57. her performance as Roopmati in the play ‘Roopmati‘ brought her to the fore front in the theatre of Gujarat.
From the inception of the Drama Group in D.-\RPA.\I.\
Academy in the year 19:39, acted and directed many plays.
She took training under the veteran artists of Bhavai
form and she is the first actress in Gujarat to perform in
the

traditional veshas of ‘joothan’, ‘Zanda

Zoolan’ and

‘Chhel Batau’. Has been awarded best actress prize
for three years in Gujarat State Drama Competitions and
in All India Drama Competitions at Delhi also. ‘Navalsha
Hirji’, her latest directed play received ﬁrst prize in
Gujarat State and she was given the best director’s prize.
Her

interest

is

in

various forms of dramas, classical,
modern, traditional. experimental, etc., and she is assistant

head of Darpana’s drama department. She works out new
themes with young playwrights in Darpana.
She has participated and directed many radio plays
and acted in TV. plays.

