1.

Delhi Public School, Mathura Road

2
3.
4
5

Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market
Laxman Public School
Lady Irwin School
Army Public School

Our experienced choreographers, Music Director, Tabla accompanist and teachers

conducted the Training Centres in these schools. The children received training in dance
drama and music.

The trainess are charged Rs. 5/- for admission and Rs. 25/- per month as fee for ten
months of the year.
८

Seven Convenors and three peons. nominated by the heads of the Schools Where our

training centres are located, helped in the regular day-to-day work of the training centres
and collected fees from the students.

Finance : During the year, the DCT received from Sangeet Natak Akaderni a grant of
Rs. 8000’- we have appealed to Chairman of the Akaderni to increase our annual grant of

Rs. 20,000/The audited statement of Income 8 Expenditure and Balance Sheet for the year 1989
90 prepared by our Chartered Accountant, M/s Shekhon 8 Co. gives a clear picture ofour
financial position. _

A1nual

estival : During the year, the DCT. held a four day Annual Festval at the
Mavalankar Auditorium, Rafi Marg. New Delhi on Feb. 12, 13, 15, 16 1990. The Festival
was a great success. Large number of school children and visitors witnessed the Festival
shows. There were two show daily in the morning and evening. The rate of tickets were
Rs. 3/— for children and Rs. 5/- for adults. A special Souvenir was brought out on the
occass ion.

Three DCT Training centres and 12 schools of Delhi took part in the Festival programme The Four day festival consisted of 22 items including plays, ballets and chorus
songs. About 2000 school children took part in the festival programme.

Our eXperianced Director, Smt. Rekha Jain, our Music Director Smt. Malabika Baul
Choreographers, Shri Bhagwati Prasad Panday, Shri Harish Rohilla, Miss ParamitaThapliyal, Shri Akhilesh Khanna, Shri Madhukar Khanna, and Tabla Accompanist Shri Arnir
Hussein, helped in making the Festival a success.

Shri Dinesh Goswami union cabinet Minister witnessed the colourful

appreciated the programme.

Festival

and

