DIRECTORS

NOTE

It is by no mere coincidence, that with this evening production of Strindbergs

THE FATHER, Ruchika has once again found a play written either in or about
events in Europe at the turn of the century-which is of tremendous relevance to
us here in India. today. The beginning of this century was the dawn of the
modem age—an age of turnultous events—of revolution, change, new alternatives
in almost every ﬁeld of life-politics, economics, arts, sciences etc.
Along with contemporary Indian plays—Ashad, Adhe, Giddh, Puraskar, Suno
Janine Jai—that effectively probe the middle class mentality; we have done plays

dealing with political realities—Shuturmurg, Tughlaq, Pahli Baat or telescoped
into the one-act form of Mrozecks powerful satires. More universal questionings
of mans alienation from self and society can be found in Tommy and Saved. No
Exit and The Fall, He Left Home, Wild Strawberries and Rhinoceros. The man/
woman relationship has also been probed deeply over the years—the poignancy of
La Musica, the hypocrisy of The Proposal, the humour of a Phoenix Too Frequent,
the ambiguity of The Lover. the apathy of Hrnmm.
But along with these, have come plays dealing with the early years of this century :

themes such as the need for openess about sex in Spring Awakening, the plight of
the revolutionary in The Just Assassins, the triumph of The Eternal Bourgeosie
in a disintegrating society, the broad caricature of a feudal order in The Bear, or
the conﬂict of Science and Religion, of Womens Emancipation and mans Freethinking Ideals in The Father.

All of the above themes are of relevance to us here

today : therefore are we socially in fact only at the stage of breaking away from
Victorian taboos ?

But our reasons for chosing this play was not merely because it is a clear record of
the conﬂict of ideas in a changing society—but more so because we felt that Strindberg had managed to capture in this play, the seeds of the element of distrust and
misunderstanding between two people that leads to their mutual destruction.

Earlier productions of this play have emphasized the tragedy of the Captain driven
mad by his villianous wife. Our interpretation however seeks to leave the blame
for his ultimate destruction somewhere between the two of them—not in one or the
other, but in a series of incidents viewed diﬁerently by two people and therefore
destroying them. The tragedy is not in the Speech, but in the pause between.

