nal truth is to us. Instead
The question that now arises is how true this emotio
se to excerpts from two artiof explaining the relevance, this time we take recour
society.
cles by Yashodhara Dalmia that probe modern Indian

TWO WOMEN IN CONVERSATION . . . .
ON LEAVING HOME . . . .
oppression and bring
I used to feel that women should get together and ﬁght their

convenient
about a more equitable system of existing. But now I feel that it is very
e.
to see the man as the oppressor and deny your own violenc

You then see

yourself as totally suffering and the man as totally persecuting you.

And then

you ﬁght him on these grounds.

Do you really feel like that ?

Until quite recently I used to feel that man was not as sensitive as women
and, therefore, could not be really depended upon. But it is only through
relating to a man that I have realised that women themselves are fairly
violent and persecutory, only they turn it out and invite masochism as a

method of escape.

So I have now realised that I am fundamentally in-

capable of relating to a man because I can’t see his reality. And the reason
own
why I can’t see him as a real person is because I continually put my
weakness into him.

What kind of weakness ?

For example, seeing man as oppressing women and being unreliable.
Gradually I have begun to realise that it is I who need to be in command,
need to control the man completely.

And unless I get that I don’t feel

secure.
This is where I feel I have common experience with you. When I began my
relationship, I used to feel equally interesting and valuable. But, as the relation»
ship progresses, there comes this terrific sense of being inferior and dependent——

And that you are much more dependent on him than he is on you. If one
felt that he was equally dependent on you then, may be, one wouldn’t feel
so bad. I feel much more dispensable than him. 1 want him very ५ much
but he doesn’t seem to appreciate my worth as much.

This dependence is not only a question of the objective reality because even if a
man can do many things that you can’t do, that does’t mean he does’t need an
emotional relationship.
emotional——

But,

at the same time,

I feel that women are more

