नटरंग मरि ष्टान

में Nag“ ’ >81 ,
Sc 1001 in pha

Director’s Add

d manner. We ave yet है make

55
1nué‘dTi/‘ifl'f'a—he‘w

Respected Shri Sahijee, Shri Vijay
Tendulkarjee, alumni of the School, members of
the teaching faculty, my colleagues at N. S. D. ,

honoured guests and friends:
It gives me pleasure to welcome you all to the
Annual Convocation 1988 and concluding
function of the year long Silver Jubilee
Celebrations of the National School of Drama.
Shri P. V. Narasihma Rao, Hon’ble Minister for
Human Resource Development, who presided

over the Inaugural Function of Silver Jubilee

thrust. We had eight productions designed and
directed by student producers in which acting
students contributed in full measure. We also
have productions prepared by Visiting Directors
and short-term workshops as part of the

training programme conducted by eminent
theatre personalities of India and other
countries. It was a sense of achievement and joy

of creation both for the students who are here to
receive their diplomas today and the members
of the faculty who shared their creative process
with the students.

Celebrations in 1987 and Shri E. Alkazi,

At the instance of Africa Fund Committee set up

eminent theatre personality and former Director

by the Government of India, we had special
theatre performances prepared during our
Silver Jubilee Celebrations for our Childrens’
Theatre Workshop with a specific subject in
mind: ”To know about Africa”. We presented
six plays of African folktales and legends during

of N. S. D. , who delivered the Special
Convocation Address and gave away the
diplomas, had rightly pointed out that
occasions like the Silver Jubilee Celebrations

give us a sense of achievement and
retrospection and also provide an opportunity
to plan for future.

the workshop of six weeks.
As a part of this celebration and our theatre

Theatre activity, like life itself, is a continuous
process: a kind of ”Dhara Pravah”. The act of

activity, National School of Drama in
collaboration with Festival of India organised

creation goes on like a stream, and moments

Indo-Soviet Theatre Seminar on 17th and 18th

like these celebrations are exhilerating moments.
National School of Drama was started to train

February, ’88 in which eminent theatre

theatre workers who would go back to their

personalities from India and U. S. S. R.
participated.

regions and create a better theatre culture
keeping in View the contemporary sensibilities

I would like to take this opportunity to pay my

of the people and we may say with pride that it

tribute to the officials and students who are no
more in this world, but have left their

has made its notable mark in this regard on

National level. We need not go into the details
because it is already history.

dedication and long cherished association with
National School of Drama.

With a view to revive and further develop the

Once again I welcome you all to this Annual

theatre culture in various regions and corners of

Convocation and end of our Silver Jubilee
Celebrations.

our country, Shri P. V. Narasimha Rao, Hon’ble

Minister of Human Resource Development, had
announced setting up of Regional Centres of
National School of Drama on the inauguration
of Silver Jubilee Celebrations last year. We have
worked over this scheme and have made some

progress. An Experts Committee has been set
up to work out details for the syllabus, duration

of courses for these Centres and other
modalities. The process has begun and we hope
to establish these Centres shortly with

Government’ 5 support. The Hon’ble Minister of
Human Resource Development had also
assured Government’s assistance in

establishing an independent campus for the

