DRAUPADI
VASTRAPAHARAN

Terukkuttu is a traditional dramatic
form from the Tamil speaking area of
South India. Terukkuttu could be
translated in English as street theatre.
This folk form which has
unfortunately received scant
recognition, is similar to traditional

theatres of other parts of South India
such as Yakshagana but also has many
interesting characteristics which are
uniquely its own.

Indian raga and tala. The ’viruttam’ is

a frequently occu ring type of form.
Unlike the taru it is sung without
rhythm. The ’Kantarttam’, occuring
less frequently is a highly lyrical poem
recited musically or even in a near
monotone. The dialogue or vachanarn
in a traditional performance is
improvized and is the means by which
the songs are understood or

elaborated upon. In this production,
for obvious reasons, the dialogue is

There are many Terukkuttu styles

not totally improvised: the students

prevalent; this production has been

not having the background required,

done with the group from Purisai
village in the North Arcot district, and

aspects of a Terukkuttu performance.

is done in the style developed by
them. Terukkuttu performances are

usually all-night affairs presented on
an open area of level ground called

’sabhai’ in Tamil. It is approximately
fourteen feet wide and sixteen feet
deep. The audience sits on three sides

of this performing area while the
musical accornpanists occupy a raised

area behind it. The kuttu being
performed; the Draupadi
Vastirapaharanam or the Disrobing of
Draupadi is drawn from the famous
Villiputturar Bharatam, the Tamil

version of the Mahabharata, from
which most of the kuttus are derived.
Other, important drarnatizations from
this repertoire are Karna Moksham
(The defeat of Karna) and Pirakalatari
Chrittirarn (the story of Prahlada). The
drarnatizations, like most Indian folk

forms are basically musical and consist

of songs and chants that carry the
story, which are rendered by the
actors playing the various characters
concerned, in which dance plays an
important role.

The music of Terukkuttu, while not
purely classical is based on the
Carnatic system of ragas and talas.
The instruments which provide an
absolutely essential accompaniment

to those playing the various
villainous, heroic and female

characters, include the rnridangarn,
double handed harmoniurn,
mukhaveena, kanjira and tala (small

cymbals for keeping time). These are
played by various musicians who sit

on the small dais raised behind the
sabhai. The 'taru’ which is the form
that predominates in the Terukkuttu
and functions in many different
contents, is a song set in a South

or the time to perfect the various

The form has many equivalents in the
classical Sanskrit dramatic tradition
such as the ’Tirai varutal’ or the
convention of the curtain entrance.
Another element is the equivalent of
the Vidhushak and/or Sutradhar, The

dance steps that correspond to the
concepts of Tandava and Lasya,
include a very stylized rapid type of

spinning called ’kirikai!
Though Guru Kannapa Tambiran and
his group have worked hard with the
students, this production does not lay
any claim of being on level with a
traditional Terukkuttu performance,

whose artists have worked at their art
for several years since childhood. The

purpose being to give the students
and their audience an idea of a
Terrukkuttu performance and its
ﬂavour.

