Novelist’s Note
In the novel, I attempt to hold a balance between the unbridled sovereignty of
the elemental human love and the equally unbridled hypocrisies prevailing
amidst us. I take no side. The oddities and angularities of both the sides are
exposed through exaggerations almost bordering on the farcical. There is perhaps
no moral lesson to be drawn. But I hope the novel makes certain revelations
about the kind of creatures we human beings are.
Ranjit Kapoor’s stage version is a daring attempt, and yet surprisingly a very
commendable one. With his imaginative use of some dramatic and some
cinematographic devices he has turned the often monotonous monologues of
the original novel into hilarious sequences effectively projecting the interiors of
the characters.
Frankly, until I saw some of the rehearsals of the stage version, I was not aware
of the novel’s so rich dramatic potentialities.
—AKHILESHWAR JHA

Director’s Note
The dramatization of this novel was an entirely new experience for me. In
Begum Ka Takia and Mukhya Mantri there were continuous situations which
afforded good possibilities for dialogue, action-reaction and offence and counter
offence. In this novel, The Janpath Kiss, there is a dearth of such elements as
are necessary for the stage version. The characters do not speak about the
main event; they only reﬂect on it. To give words to these reﬂections and
ruminations and, further, to turn them into a play was a pretty difﬁcult task.
But at the same time, it was also challenging. This novel underlines the

paradox of the hollowness of moral values in our contemporary society, and it
was this paradox which inspired and compelled me to write the stage version.

In this effort, I have taken some liberties. Whether they are right or wrong,
only the audience can decide. But for the courage, conﬁdence and affection
with which Akhileshwarji entrusted his novel to me, I am grateful to him.
Respected Pannaji has given me ﬁrst opportunity to work with SRC and
tolerated my idiosyncracies, for which I must ask for her excuse, and express
my gratitude.
nicians and other
Lastly the cooperation and affection which all the workers of SRC have given me are my invaluable ,86१.र्नहूँरेंड़ेस्थरवृध्र1५1हु a) . .

——'RAN3‘|i"

AP

R

चिं…- —... . ५५
‘—.. ५-

