छंट…णा o- कुच्छ

National School of Drama

77—57715 \ 3/

National School of Drama is one of the foremost theatre training
institutions in the world and the only one of its kind in India.
Established in 1959 as a constituent unit of the Sangeet Natak
Akademi, the School became an independent entity in 1975 and was

registered as an autonomous organization under the Societies
Registration Act XXI of 1860, fully ﬁnanced by the Ministry of Culture ,
Govt. of India. Training in the School is highly intensive and is based
on a thorough, comprehensive, carefully planned syllabus which
covers every aspect of theatre where theory is related to practice. The
School has two performing wings, the Repertory Company, which was
started in 1964 and the 'I‘heatre-in-Education Company (Sanskaar
Rang Toli), which was founded in 1989. On completion of three year
course, successful students may be considered for enrolment into
either of these two companies or for a year-long fellowship. Launched
in 1978, the Extension Programme of the School conducts workshops
for adults and children in different parts ofthe country.

Sikkim Theatre Training Centre (STTC)
Sikkim Theatre Training Centre is the first outside Delhi centre of the
National School of Drama. Situated in a lush green picturesque valley
of Gangtok, the Centre imparts year-long extensive training in theatre.
The first phase of the course is devoted to training & grooming of the
participants in which Yoga, Movement, Martial Arts, Voice & Speech,
Music, Western Drama, Classical and Modern Indian Drama and
various methods of Acting are covered.The Second Phase focuses on
Technical training, Scenic Design, Lighting Design, Make-up and
other aspects of theatre. Whereas in the third phase, the participants
experience a series of professional tours in and around Sikkim and
other places of India which provide them ample opportunities to open
up and know different cultures, peoples & territories. In 2012, the
Centre has started its Repertory Company in which students from the
last year's training programme were selected as artists.
nsdcampofﬁcesikkim@gmail.com

कीर्ति जैम द्वारा'
नटरंग प्रतिष्ठान को it

