क्वें…
Concept, Design & Direction
Abhilash Pillai
A graduate of NSD & RADA, Abhilash Pillai has directed plays in various
Indian languages and English; contributed articles on theatre in leading
publications in India and the UK; attended many seminars and conducted
workshops and involved in several international and national collaborations.
His works draw on a wide array ofmaterials but are presented in a contemporary
aesthetic style. His major directorial works include C. N. Sreekantan Nair's
'Saketam', Takazhi Sivasankara Pillai's 'Scavengers' Son' (Verdigris), Salman
Rushdie's 'Midnight's Children', O.V. Vijayan's "The Legends of Khasak' (Palm Groove Tales),
Shama Fatehally's 'Taj Mahal', Sujith Shankar's 'Helen', Vaikom Muharnmed Basheer’s Jara Bada Ek

Basheer' and 'Clowns & Clouds', a conﬂuence of circus & theatre. He has written a biographic book
titled ‘C.N. Sreekantan Nair - A Vision and Mission of a Theatre Activist’ - published by the Central
Sahitya Akademi in 2007. He was honored with the Sanskriti Award 2002-03 for his achievements in
the ﬁeld oftheatre. Recently, Mr. Pillai has completed his Ph.D. on 'Space through Visual Language in
Indian Theatre' fromJawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi.
zbhilazh@gmail.com

Assistant Director, Sound Design, Music Composition

& Guidance in Costume Design
Jilmil Hajarika
Born in AssamJilmil Hajarika has graduated from NSD with a specialization in - ~ .
acting. Later, she joined the NSD Repertory Company, where she did many . “
lead roles in different plays and assisted several music directors. She has worked
with some of the most eminent and senior theatre directors of India and abroad.
After NSD Repertory, she has been very active on stage as a lead singer. She
performed 'Memorable Equinox’ a one women performance produced by British Council. She has
also done lead roles in different international projects and travelled to Nepal, Japan, South Korea,
Austria, etc. She has also been an acting instructor and camp director with NSD's Extension
Programmes in which she directed plays like 'Kisu Alpar Kisu Xapunor', 'Saati' etc. From her
childhood days, she had a keen interest in Sports and Music.
jilmilhaj arika@gm ail . com

