Lighting & Video Design
Himanshu B.Joshi
Writer, designer and director Himanshu BJoshi has worked with many theatre
personalities of India. He has designed lights for the plays directed by eminent
directors such as Kirti Jain, MK Raina, Tripurari Sharma, Bharti Shrama,

Hema Singh, Bipin Kumar, VK and others. His light design for Savi Savarkar's
painting exhibition “Eyes Re-cast” received rave reviews for its strong political
connotation. He has designed space for Abhilash Pillai's 'Island of Blood' and
visited Japan with it, Acrylic glass house for Haiish Khanna's 'Glass House
Project' and Special Effects for Abhilash Pillai's 'Ghost Train'. He has been
technical coordinator of Bharat Rang Mahotsava, German Festival in India, Poorva (Women
Directors' Theatre Festival), Days of Russian Culture in India and India shows of 'Memories of a

Legend'produced by Japan Foundation, Tokyo. He was the Chief Technical Coordinator of Leela
(South Asian Women's Theatre Festival) organized by NSD and ICCR. He has been teaching lighting
and space designing as well as providing theatre consultancy services for constructing different types of
auditoriums across the country. Last year, he has designed lights for NSD Sikkim centre's ﬁrst play
'Hurn Hi Aapno Aap' directed by Bipin Kumar. He has conducted several theatre workshops for
children and written & directed science based plays like 'Ikkiswin Sadi Ki Dadi' and 'Mangal Grihaka
Rahasya'. He has translated/adapted Salman Rushdie's 'Midnight's Children' and Shama Futtehally's
"I‘ajmahal' for National School of Drama both directed by AbhilashPillai and written Memsaheb
Prithvi for NSD Repertory Company directed by Rabijita Gogoi. He was one of the writers of 'Clowns
& Clouds'- a conﬂuence of theatre and circus directed by Abhilash Pillai. Besides, he himself has
directed several plays including G. Sankara Pillai's'Khoj', Khwaja Ahmed Abbas' 'Bombai ke Footpath
Par EkHazar Ratein' and Shakespeare's 'Romeo &Juliet'.
hbioshi2k@2mail.com

