हैं
Mask, Props & Puppets Design and Making
Aruna Kurnar Malik
Born and brought up in Orissa, Aruna Kumar Malik did MFA in Sculpture
from Utkal University and a postgraduate diploma from NSD with
specialization in acting. Since then he has been working as an actor, director and
set & props designer. He has conducted theatre workshops in different parts of
the country and has the experience of working with eminent Directors of India .
like Anuradha Kapur, Ram Gopal Bajaj, Kanhailal, Sabitri H, Abhilash Pillai,

Tripurari Shanna, Kirti Jain, Robin Das, Ranjit Kapoor, Lushin Dubey,
Sushma Seth, Bhanu Bharati, Arnba Sanyal, CRJambe, Raj Bisaria, MK Raina, DR Ankur, Prasanna,

Rudradeep Chakraborty to name a few. He has also worked with International directors like Guy
Biran (Israel), Jamil Ahmad (Bangladesh), Eva (Germany), Martin Houghten (London), Rob Clair

(Australia). As an actor, he has acted in international ﬁlms like 'Dilli in a Day' and rYeh Saali Zindagi' by
Sudhir Mishra. He is the Head of Property Department at NSD and also teaches props & craft there.
artistarunkumar@vahoo.co.in

Mask Acting, Puppet Animation Training & Shadow
Puppet Design and Making
Sugathan Parayantharayil

A diploma holder in Computer Application from the Board of Technical
Education, Sugathan has done his graduation in Malayalam from the Calicut
University and is presently doing his Bachelor in Transactional Analysis,
ICTA Kalarnassery, Kerala. He also posses a thorough knowledge of 1
computer software, especially music software such as Music Maker, ACID Pro I दृ a
and Nuendo. He has 12 years practice in Bharathanatyam under guru Balan है"
Master, 10 years in Hindusthani classical music under Kozhikkod Anil Das
and 6 years in Tabla under Usthad Hamsa Jan. He has over 15 years of
experience in theater activities, done 24 theatre productions as an actor and performed extensively
across Kerala and selected destinations in India. Worked as an associate art director in a few films and
documentaries, he has been associated with the famous directors Maya Thanberg, Narippatta Raju,

