५८ Director's Note:
Inspired with Yeshe Dorjee Thongchi's Assamese novel 'Sonam', the play 'Kalo Sunakhari' has all the
passion of a human story with high values among the 'Brokpas', (the community among the yak herds
the Monpa tribe ofArunachal Pradesh). In the unique family system of Brokpas, a woman is socially
permitted to marry more than one man. However, the narrative of the novelette has purity with a
regional ﬂavor and localized colour system; we tried to touch upon the wider aspects of human sense,
sensibility and sensitivity. The story appeals to the inner susceptibilities, rooted in the indigenous
Monpa culture and at the same time having a pervading undertone ofuniversality.

The roots of social conﬂict in these families can be traced to their insolubility with prevalent social
customs. The individual becomes victim in such societies where polygamy and polyandry are socially
permissible. The universal truth about man-woman relationship is based on complementary to each
other, and this unique bond is essentially biological in nature. According to this rule of nature, living
together in pairs and not allowing the entry of a third one, is discernible also in the animal kingdom.
Even if social customs lawfully allow the involvement of a third person or if somebody succumbs
temporarily to an emotional fallibility, the foundation of a man-woman relationship is bound to reestablish itself.

Here, in this production, we have tried to adapt the Monpa culture to the culture of the Bhutia,
Lepcha and Nepalese communities of Sikkim. While intermingling and intennixing these rich and
vibrant cultural traits, we could not maintain purity of these cultures (if there is any purity) but provide
a dose of modernism prevailed in today's Sikkim. We have tried a kind of physical theatre with mask
and puppet acting. Mask became very handy as a paramount means of dramatic expression as Edward
Gordon Craig put it years ago. Sometimes mask presented the idealized and symbolic human being
that offered the actors a sort of control and clarity of statement. Earlier, in the workshop with the same
actors, I have felt that the face of the actor is least essential source of physical expression because it
represents the self of the actor, which he may leave behind, particularly in the age of camera acting
where camera captures extreme close up faces of stars for hours. I realized that they could not
overcome the excessive awkwardness in this case. The reason for their 'corporeal dresses' was nothing
else but was 'modesty’ and in attempt to release them from it, we looked back into the theatre history
and realized that from behind the mask, the Romans, Egyptians and Greeks have ventured gestures

