and postures. It is understood that to achieve the totality of acting, in those days, they would never have
dared with bare faces. That was possible only through the expressive masks covering the face that
enable actors to hide their individual persona, and could temporarily separate from their own identity
and they can access new realms of inspiration. Having something to hide behind means,
paradoxically, they no longer need to hide and can therefore take greater risks.
In this production, the identity of the mask and wearer are completely separate. Whilst the mask gives
the wearer freedom to play, to be open to intuition is also imposes its own rigor. One can see lot of
truism in physical actions of the actors. The cliché contains an essential grain of truth, which may
resonate with the spectators. What we have tried is the way precise and measured gestures are applied
to make it more effective than quick ﬂourishes.
I have deliberately avoided the traditional Sikkimese feel or look for the production. I feel the form of
the production is more political rather than the straight narrative of the story or the authenticity of the
tribes. I also never wanted this production to be a cultural ethos of the Sikkimese life in its authenticity,
regionality and traditionality. I, therefore, tried to bring about a synthesis of modernity, keeping the
rich cultural heritage and traditional legacy of Sikkim in place. We tried to bring about this
phenomenon through the costumes also. However, I am deeply concerned by one tendency which
threatens the Sikkimese as a people: the impact of globalization, especially the deterritorialization of
their culture.
Finally, I have no words to thank Shri Bipin Kumar, the Director of the Sikkim Centre of NSD, who
not only gave me this opportunity to do the first production of Repertory with fresh lot of Sikkimese
artistes but also introduced the novel 'Sonam' to me. He was the one who patiently understood my
busy schedules at National School of Drama in Delhi and my abroad tours and accordingly
rescheduled my production with the Repertory company, that too in very limited resources of this
centre. I am also grateful to all the staff, energetic students of first year and last but not the least, the
wonderful lot of Repertory artistes. As always, my thanks are to Prof. (Dr) Anuradha Kapur, Director,
National School of Drama, New Delhi.

