की

vivacity

{a

६ t ५ दृ. '

‘ MM 'NEW DELHI ‘ TUESDN

टू A quiet maverick

A
JARI
Kathalt exponent MAN
g
CHATURVEDI’S recent enthrallin
I
performance on the
t Baba
compositions of Suti sain

\n दृ \lllllllltlll mach [)lll)ll( tor the ﬁrst I llIlL‘ Illt‘ \\ I >I ks
111६111।। ५५1.।1111५11111१'111 ll]t)tlt‘|’lll\l painter liltll \l( )l l \\l
\\ l ). li\ SHAW/WI; Bil/\SKARAN

Bulleh Shah proved to be an
t for the
undeniable entertainmen
AYAN
RITY
SANK
ILA
told
She
.
soul

about this faki his wisdom and
today
what makes him relevant

n 111५1'1111५'1 193३2.at lllt’ height olthc
\ it-tnaiii War, 50 New Year greeting
cards were mailed en massc to various .

‘ tmm“.th“mantitrtmNt-ttrricllti

हदृैं

I r. wort-aw.“ "*" "'जो . "I८ ३ ३ '
क्या

dered awav its cultural 11१1ditioris 'loday the only
music eriianating trom
Pun'ab is a certain rlliiiik
(ling (link with random
words thrown into it.
There should also be
'
I
something more than that.
and spintual contour
at
Bulliii‘tilr
0
n
productio
३ Shouldn't someone take
part of '“ Khwaja Project in her recent
and chose not
‘ भी ,‘J the couplets ofBaba Bulleh
The hila. She had a wonderful tlair for expression saint in her
the
J Shah or Baba Farid and set
to leave even a minute detail in delineation about presentation
mystic
it to music? It is remarkable
repertoire. In addition to her magniﬁcent and
overs. vtsua s
with what calm serenity
what made it more enticing was inclusion of voice
Bulleh Shah
Bulleh Shah attacks the
of musicians and dancers from the shrine ofBaba
at Kasur, Puniab in Pakistan
In a country where soci—
Islam.
and
orthodox in both Iiindusim
Chattirvedi commented, “The production O'Bullayah ety is divided ri idly into these two ritatn sects, it is unusual to meet
is aone of its kind. Nothing on Bulleh Shah has been a man who is a eye the trappings of sects, and who can criticise
done in classical dance. and yet the most popureligions with equal tiripartiality. It was said that Bulleh Shah
lar song till date remains Terr uhq tmrliayn. both
.
which is what we also performed and knew the text oi scriptures by heart. And yet again. be discarded
explored in this concert. The world all rituals and ceremoriials."
She went on to talk the intricacies in his creations like Tarebhq
‘ ५ knows Rumi who wrote great
Kiri rte lcri zant purhni.
‘ x
on love. It is the time to naclinivnan, Gliiirignt rliuk o sajrm and
“Bulleh Shah spent his whole life in the search of true self-realisa—
tion and spiritual awakening. In his poetry he talks about his understandings of the world around him and his divine experience. It
was astonishin to see during the period of Emperor Auran Zeb,
eir express
cder, ecstasy, separation arange when music an dance were almost debarred, he used to roam
of emotions articulated in ing and singing on the streets ofPunjab. lie preached to the mas§~
_ words. music and dance. Bulleh as to leave their egos and not to worry about social conventions:
I
act who wrote in if they wish to meet the divine power. Very interesting story was
associated with his poetry Tm ishq nadmiyaair which shows his
‘complete surrender nfln
7a
"३
’
at times dancing love and devotion {or his master lnayat Shah who was angry with
him. lust to please his master, he learnt dancefrom a tawmﬂcourt
dancer) for monthsand then dressed up as afemale to perform in
his level of adothe woman in Punjab. This from of him. Inayat Shah was so delighted to see
Shah was a savproduction ﬁnds its relevance ration that he hugged him with warmth. Bulleh
of human race and an instrument ofpeace in Punjab."
iour
when
times
recent
in
especially
the incredible
all
take
to
was
motive
main
the
Manjari,
for
As
diviman
so
_ humanity is divided in
knowledge
ofthis
Suﬁ
saintto
audience
and
esent
a dance piece
sions, each human separate front
the other. The voice ofBulleh Shah not just to soothe their eyes but mind as well. “I take these messages
ofthe
Suﬁ
saints
to
audiences
across
India
and
the world.
. becomes the uniting lorce and an
Nothing blurs the divide better than our tradition ofmusic, dance
expression oflove.”
about creating
A number of Bulleh Shah's kaﬁs and poetry. Today when we are gettingbelligerent
misguided sections
have been sung by present day qawwals rather than obliterating the divide and to these
otherwise no ' 1 '
and even Bollywood has adapted many of his com- I say that threaten this composite heritage
and the light, swathe in
positions into melodious son like Chaiyyaa chaiymz remain. I arri determined to be the link
- ’ from DilSe. Ran‘ha ranjlia om Rnavan and so on. colours ofSufi saint poets,as I introduce audience to many layers
But whatmakes B eh Shah so appealing even after 700 of our culture and traditions," concluded Chaturvedi who creat»
years? She replied,“While till date I remain wonder-struck at our edfout-of-body experience in an intriguing concept embraced by
~
immense poetic walth 1 am saddened by how Punjab has Squan- Su ism.

us with each other
uti Kathak and suti poetry are synonymo
ntsboth l—ler
and Maniun Chaturvedi is a namethat compleme
a visual representation ol the poet
performance is al at .
d tran. \rni the
anotheran
one
tergeinto
r
'
earnlessl
'
th
.
.
documentar
researched
well
of
piece
dance into live

९पाय४१।(ति९५प्र"सं९(९।त्९शि।"रा।।।९
Secretary t writ-ml ol' the United Nat ions
and the editors ot two leading Indian
६'1६'९1१11५'1५. 1३11८ card contained the
reproduction of a sketch rendered on
\t mtchboard with the title.Stop Burning
.‘lsia. 'Ilie [loath is Fltllillt’lll‘q you. 'I' to
sender ot the greeting cards was maverick painter and illustrator. Bri) Mohan
.r\nantl. His sketch and the message it
tontnined was explicrtenough: y
trotting to wage war on Asia. the US was
pavtng the way to its own destruction.
Although Anand received no response
to his action. he produced another painting two ye' s later, this time protesting
against lndi " ﬁrst nuclear test at
I’okhran in ltajastlian. Anancl's intention
was to formallypresent the paintingto
then Prime Minister. lndim Gandhi.
The late artist, whose unusual
aesthetic formed a sustained response
to the olitics of his time. which have
shape modem Indianconsciousness,
is the subject ofa new exhibition here.
which seeks to restore, preserve and
propagate his works and vision. The
l । day long show was inaugurated
recently in the presence ofﬁlmmakcr
lintiaz Ali among others.
It features 80 (out ofan archive of
over 1,600) epoch-deﬁning works
done between 1928-1986 including35
sketches, I4 tscratchboards. three
scratchboard sketches, ﬁve ink draw»

ings, six‘Red Cross posters, 23 book
covers and ﬁve oil-on-canvas paintings.
What becomesquickly visible evento
the untrained eye and with only a cur—
sory look at his vast portfolio is the
exceptional range ofAnand‘s work.
“Anand is deploying to a lotofstyles
but he is slave to none," said theatre
activist Sudhanva Deshpande, who was
art ofthe event that also marked the
bunch of a book and an infographic.
both titled, Narratives or Indian
Modenu'ty: The Aesthetic o Brij Mohair

Ammd detailing the lifestory and ofthe

if
like Dali orMiro," observed Poole.
Anand’s lifeand aesthetic intersect— अ-:
'
ed with someofthe foundationalevents
l
modern
which deﬁned and shaped
Indian consciousness. From the bitter, if
family legacy of the Iallianwala Ba h
Massacre in which his pre-teen el er
brother, was among the ﬁrst to be shot,

Punjab-born artist. The book has been
Clo—authoredby writer-biographerAditi to the trauma ofparlition duringwhich
Anand and UK-based art historian ayoung Anand returnedto Delhi on the
last min from Lahore. Anand's own life
Grant Pooke.
In line with hisSocialist rinciples. and aesthetic an be understood,in part.
' t- as an externalised response to this
Anandmade no attemptto SCH ‘
lugs. Instead, he believed that art was a traumatichistory.
As an artist, Anand led two, very
powerful rriedium ofserial and politi—

पृ

chi commentary and chose to use it as distinct lives -b day, he was a carriavoice ofdisserit and atool foradvanc—
ing social justice.

rnercially success

illustrator, earning

money to meet hisexpenses: his nights,

on theother han , were reserved for
imperialism and Indian militarism. ativity and personal expression. IfillusAnand’s highly politicised aesthetic traiions were thesource ofhis 1म1३००गों
tracked Indias emergence front Partition his art cxtemalised hisopinions and his
and Independence to its 'ourney politics. which he refused to commerthroughthe technological ch euges of cialise or commoditise.
"Thischance discovery ofhisworks
the Cold Warand the complex moderprompted us to have thisexhibit to show
nity ofthe later 20th century. A high]
talented and largely self-taught artist. the art ofthis unknown Indiantreasure
Anand's starkly modernist ﬁgure corri- ofan artist.“ Neeraj Gulati. the founder
positions and apocalyptic landscapes ofthe BM Anand Foundation said. “We
reflect his deﬁant and politiailly subver- plan to take theexhibit to other ratios in
sive stance. "Thepost~a
yptic scenes India andto the major art centres ofthe
from his paintings and ‘sstmmlist style world such as Paris. London and
are reminiscent ofwestern modernists Amsterdam," he added.

O
tones _— the cosmos is ﬁlled with a million of them.
Some in stone, some on paper. someon parchments,
arpets and so manymore. There are perha s man भा s
in which the folklore. lifestyle and issues :{irnpaZt oga
race can be determinedbut Gautarn Hernmady decidecl
to do it through matchboxs labels.
He has put his excuisite collection ofmatcliboxcs up
on exhibit titled Matchbox labels and the stories they tell
at India International Centre. It traces prominent emcs
and'subjects in Indian matchbox label design from the
earliest
erimcnts of includingthe merchant’sname as
a form of randing and quality assurance throu various subjects that continued to search for competitive
advantage in a highly unorgnised industry.
_ S
from Ma 27, t 2 exhibit will include origtrial march axes. labe . printed packaging material, and
promotional products used by the industry, from
lieirunady'spersonal collection ot'cver 25,000 items dating back to I890. The exhibition is divided into sections
भा

u

क्या

O

-

GAUTAM HEMMADY’S exhibition of Indian matchbox labels traces the
history of the country

~<

A trenchantcritic ofbothWestern

ode mer-

chant
s
traders.in
_
"शा
thoio gy. rदृमुहेंज्युगृ
' . art. architectura'l'he
'

ilcd on that firstda . When I found out that so little was
available on match oxes and labels, I decided to begin
accumulation anything and ever thing related to the
industry. Since then I have manage to accumulate alarge
variety of material with a view to establish an archive
of sorts."

'5 F 7

giansm, kings and curtesans and is loosely chronological tracrng the entire history of the Indian matchbox
industry.
Hemmady's fascination with matchboxes dates back
many‘years but it was only in 2012that heactually staned to actingiL What triggered his interest more was the
lack ०1 information on In in matchboxes and labels. He
pointed out1 I was amazed and fascinated by the variety and smalltalk at each of the retail outlets that I visWarh Darrow by students at Nutan
warmth Montoya Cantonan Board
Sd‘ool tilled Traitslorrmtion Ihmugn M.
will be on display at NC.The exhibition Will
beon View May 18to 24 atthe Art Gallery

“ongoing Exlllllllioﬂ. Woods 0/ Continuity. at the Indira Gandhi National Centre tor
giveglimpses on Paisl lite and hat istasclnallnu tourney ol Its Indian Decolo lioni
. It alsqthrows hunt on the community: glorious adaption over tentuues

