FISH FARMING
FOR
FOOD AND PROFIT

तो

~ दृ है -»
What are the names of Fishes you like to introduce in your
pond.
These are Indian Major Carps and exotic Carps, which
include

CaIla, Rohu, Mirgal, Kalabans, Mirror

Common Carp, Silver Carp and Grass Carp.
all these ﬁshes is known as POLYCULTURE.
What do these ﬁshes eat ?

Carp,

Culture of

These ﬁshes mostly feed on phy to and Zoo Planktons as
well as on plants and Algae; which are grown in water and
or kitchen refuse.
How the ﬁsh tastes ?
५
It is dalicious to eat and has lot of good proteins, vitamins
and Minerals for building Muscles and Bones.
What is the effect of including ﬁsh in the diet of the family ?
Families which eat lot of ﬁish grow strong and healthy.
How ﬁsh can be raised ?
The best part about ﬁsh is that we can raise them in small
ponds as well as big ponds which are generally found in
villages, but ﬁsh can also be raised by constructing ponds in
Agricultural farms or by the construction of exclusive ﬁsh
farms.
How many kilos of ﬁsh can you grow in one year in one
hectare
The present national average ﬁsh production is’ 660 Kgs.
per hectare but now with extensive—
Polyculture practices it is envisaged to touch 9000 Kgs. per
hectare.

How does raising of ﬁsh in farm pond beneﬁts your family है
In one hectare pond, one can harvest 900 kgs. of ﬁsh if

proper care feeding and manuring is timely ensured. It
can provide ﬁsh for the family and extra for the market
as cash crop.
What can the water in ﬁsh pond be used besides ﬁsh
farming ?
If there is a good supply ofwater, ﬁsh pond can be used as
a reservoir for irrigating Agricultural ﬁelds.
Who in your family can help in raising ﬁsh ?
_

Fish farming is fun and all the members in the family can
contribute equally both by young and old.
What are some good reason for raising ﬁsh ?
There are several good reasons for raising ﬁsh है--i) They provide delicious food to eat.
ii) Better nutrition and better health for the family.
iii) Extra money from the sale of extra ﬁsh.

iv)

An interesting activity enjoyed by young and old alike.

What is the most effective result of ﬁsh farming ?
It will reduce pressure on Land, Uplift Rural Economy.

Provide Employment to

Un-employed

Youth,

Nutritious Diet. in weaker section and arrest

incluJe

the Price of

ﬁsh under the 20 Point Programme of our Hon’ble Prime
Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi.

Issued By :
A. K. KAWATRA
Director and Warden of Fisheries

Punjab, Chandigarh

