संगीत w Sangeet
नाटक

अकादेमी

Natak

Akademi

NATIONAL स्था 0F MISC DANCE ND

INDIA

Sangeet Natak Akademi

Sangeet Natak Akademi, India’s national academy for music, dance and drama, is
the ﬁrst national academy of the arts set up in 1952 by the Republic of India.
The ﬁrst President of India, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, inaugurated it on 28 January 1953
in a special function held in the parliament House.

Since its inception the Akademi has been functioning as the apex body for the
performing arts in the country, preserving and promoting the vast intangible
heritage of India’s diverse culture expressed in the many forms of music, dance and
drama. In furtherance of its objectives, the Akademi collaborates with the
governments and arts academies of the differenct States and Territories of the
Union of India, as also with major cultural institutions in the country. The Akademi
also establishes and looks after institutions and projects of national importance in
the field of performing arts. It organizes performances of music, dance and theatre;
gives awards in recognition of individual artistic or scholarly achievement;
subsidizes the work of institutions engaged in teaching, performing or promoting
music, dance or theatre; gives

grants-in-aid for research, documentation, and

publishing in the performing arts; organizes and subsidizes seminars and
conferences of subject specialists: documents and records the performing arts for
its audio-visual archive; maintains a reference library and a gallery of musical
instruments; and publishes literature on relevant subjects on a small scale.
Sangeet Natak Akademi also renders advice and assistance to the Government of
India in the task of formulating and implementing policies and programmes in the
ﬁeld. Additionally, the Akademi carries a part of the responsibilities of the state for

fostering cultural contacts between various regions in India, and between India and
the World.
The Akademi manages two national institutions of dance, the Jawaharlal Nehru
Manipur Dance Academy in Imphal and the Kathak Kendra in New Delhi, as its
constituent Units. The National School of Drama in Delhi was originally yet
another constituent unit of the Akadmi.

Sangeet Natak Akademi is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Culture and is
fully funded by the Government for implementation of its schemes and
programmes.

