दैस्कादै
~
tun—l
‘1 ﬁx:
1:7:1vxlvwm
.a'wv
५४७
v\d~|

Ranga Pratibha - 2008
Kannada theatre is not stagnant water; it is flowing river B. V. Karanth, one of the greatest theatre personalities, used to say
these words. According to him stagnant water can be contaminated
but not the flowing river water: At the same time he used to argue that
Rangabhoomi (theatre) is one and intact. There may be some branches

but the root is one. Folk (Janapada), Mythology (Pouranika), Amateur
(Havyasi), Company Theatre (Vrutti Rangabhoomi)... these are some
of the branches of the theatre which is having only one root.
Entertainment, Education, making people to think... these are the some
of the goals of Kannada Theatre.
The present Karnataka Nataka Academy is heading ahead in the right
direction with right perspective. By appointing conveners at the district
level, it has spread the theatre activities to every nook and corner of
the state. All the branches of theatre should grow equally is the main
theory of the academy.
Now for the first time in the history of Karnataka Nataka Academy,
Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi has come forward to sponsor
Ranga Prathibha-2008, a festival of young theatre directors of
Karnataka. With the active participation of the Directorate of Kannada
and Culture, this festival is being conducted between 6th and 15th of
January 2008.
The Directors of the Festival selected by expert committee headed by
eminent writer Dr: Chandra Shekhara Kambar (Chairman), Karnataka

Nataka Academy Chairman Srinivas G. Kappanna (Vice-Chairman),
B. Jayashri (Sangeet Natak Akademi representative), Suresha Anagalli
(N.S.D. Representative) member; C. Basavalingaiah and Janardhan
(Janni) (theatre personalities) were the other members of the committee.
Selected directors are in the age group of 25 and 35, it stretched upto
40 also in special condition. This is the ﬁrst stage performance of the
said plays directed by young directors. These are exclusive for Ranga

Pratibha Utsava.
Next day of the every stage performance, a discussion with the director;
techniciasns and actors arranged at the ‘Chavadi’ of the Academy.
Sangeet Natak Akademi has invited expert team from various parts of
the country. Karnataka Nataka Academy has invited seven experts in
theatre ﬁeld from the various districts of the state to participate in the
Theatre Festival.
Academy hopes and expects these young directors will bring new
strength and visions to the Kannada Rangabhoomi.
Srinivas G. Kappana
Chairman
Karnataka Nataka Academy, Bangalore

८७
८
3 '

