Monday, 07.01.2008
Director :

Dr'. K. Ramakrishnaiah

Drama

:

DARASHIKO

Play
Team

: Shri Raj appa Dalavai
: Kalamythri Sarnskrutika Vedike
Bangalore
टड-दृर्देड्डेप्लपैहृग्लैमृपृ ध्यार्ड्सणान्हें'ठे DIEM!)

Director

Dr. Ramakrishnaiah is a Reader in the Department of Performing
Arts, Bangalore University. He was a student of the same department
from where he obtained his Master’s Degree. He has produced many
plays like Manteswarny Kathaprasanga. Ashadada Ondu Dina, Taayi,
Madhyama Vyayoga, Hayavadana, Bhasabharata, Andherinagara
Chowpatraj a, Vidisheya Vidushaka, Yamana Solu, B irudanternbara Ganda,
Muttuchera and presently ‘Darashiko’.

Play
Darashiko was the eldest son of Shajahan, the Moghal Empire and the
brother of Aurangajeb. He was a poet, translator, Sufi and Prince. He
amalgamated all the prime qualities of Hindu and Muslim religions. He was
the victim of all the paradoxical whims of his father on one side, and the

political conspiracies of his younger brother, on the other. As a result,
conspiracy of Ularnas of Islam and Aurangazeb, he was beheaded by a
close associate Eunuch Nazir. A tragic hero succumbed to death by his
younger brother, for having dedicated his life to secularism.

The play, while depicting the complexities of cornrnunalisrn, makes one
think about the religion and the philosophy embedded in it. It emphasizes on
the re-establishment of Secularism with all its Philosophy of humanism.
Darashiko is not just an historical character, but an integration of all good
qualities of different religions. Darashiko’s end came because of his
generosity and his value-based ideologies. The under—current of this play is
cornmunalism ‘Be the Mulsirn or Hindus, it is dangerous’. Hence the play
emphasizes more on the human values than anything else. Darashiko was
a secular soul eclipsed by the comrnunalism. Secularism should not vanish,
because it is the soul of our country. Darashiko sacriﬁced his life, but let us
not allow our lives to disappear like Darashiko.

