Life Turning Full Circle In Andora
Andora is a complex play, It was more than evident in the audience's reaction on Monday, when it was
staged at Bharat Bhavan, as part of the ongoing Rangadhar Natya Samaroh. A few walked away mid-way
while the others could be seen hundled discussing its nuances in the 10 minute break. However, those who
stayed on were treated to a different kind of play, dealing with a subject slightly exterior to their existence
persecution of a Jew in an imaginative land Andora.
Presented by NatBundele and directed by veteran theatre personality Alakhnandan, the play stood out for the
difference in treatment offered to the subject, quite unusual from the regular fare at Antarang auditorium. It is
based on an original work in German by Max F‘risch written during his travels at the time of World War II. It has
been translated in Hindi by Mahesh Dutt.
Andora is the story of Andre, a non Jew brought up as a jew due to his father's fear of accepting him as his own
child. Set in the time of World War II, It graphically shows the negative attitude that the people of Andora
Harbour against the jews. He tries, in vain, to be part of the mainstream society. All his efforts are met with

frustration. Gradually, he starts seeing in himself, all the ngativity that the people around him associate with the
jews.
'
The play tries to bring forth the ugly face of the majority community and the treatment it metes out to the
minority as director Alakhnandan says, "It could be any situation, any place and any time, What's important
is the frustration of someone trying to integrate with the society and not being allowed to. ' '
The most striking thing about the play was its music (by Alakhnandan) and lights by lrfan Saurabh. Music was
far more convincing in transporting people to the Eouropean—styel Andora than the sets and costumes. The play
also added new shades of directorial ventures in telling a tale through well connected yet separate pieces.
However, what remains to be seen is if Bhopal is ready yet for play that really force one to stop and ponder.
Hindustan Times, Bhopal
30 March, 2004

