( 5 )
becomes a pauper because of his extremely charitable nature.
a prostitute.

Vasantseaa is

She is the embodiment of beauty and sensuousness. Adept in the

art of music and dance and laden with qualities of love, humility and regard,
this young lady, Vasantsena, falls in love with Charudutta on the ’Kamotsava’
day. King Palak’s brother in law, Shakar is deeply attracted towands Vasantsena. Even though foolish, cunning and Characters he has the backing of

kingship, administration and unlimited wealth. But Vasantsena rejects the
wealth and luxury offered by Shakar and accepts the sincere love of pennyless
Charudutta.
Once, Shakar follows Vasantsena and she, in breathlessness, hides in the
house of Charudatta. On being recognised, she pretends to keep her jewellery
with him as a deposition. This jewellery is stolen form Charudutt’s house by
a young man name Sharvilak. He is in love with Vasantsena’s companion cum
Servant, Madanika.

He wants to get Madanika releived from Vasantsena by

giving this jewellery. Madanika recognises the jewellery. Both pretend as if
Charudutt has returned the jewellery. But Vasantsena sees through the ploy but
releases Madanika. Her this generosity speaks volumes asout her character.
Here, Charudutt is greatly pained by the robbery. His wife gives him her
‘Ratnavali’ which is taken to Vasantsena in place of the jewellery by Maitraiya,
Vasantsena’s love for Charudutt deepens at this and she goes to meet him.
Their love breaks all barriers of the body and touches pinnacles of ecstacy.
Vasantsena wants to return the ‘Ratnav‘ali’ to Charudutt’s wife but she refuses to

take it back. Both get intangled in a cold war. Meanwhile, Charudutt’s son,
Rohsen comes crying with the governess, Radanika. He wants a golden cart to
play with but his poor father cannot provide it. Vasantsena keeps all her
jewellery in the clay cart for Rohsen and he is happy.

King Palak’s subjects are very unhappy under the misrule and exploitation
of his and his brother in law, Shakar’s reign. GOp Kumar Aryak is

imprisoned. He emerges as the hero of l he common man. Sharvilak is his friend
and he rescues him from behind the bars.

Palak’s soldiers chase Aryak. Vasant-

sena has to go to a garden to meet Charudutt.

Due to a misunderstanding,

Aryak sits in the cart meant for Vasantsena and Vasantsena in the one meant

for Aryak. 011 the way, Aryak’s cart it stOpped by soldiers named Chandrak
and Veerak. Chandrak supports Aryak and lets him pass. On this, he has a

squprble with Veesak.

Aryak reaches Charudutt’s garden.

Charudutt cuts his

handcuffs and helps him. Vasantsena reaches Shakar’s garden. He confesses
his love for her but she rejects him. On this, he tries to murder her. His ‘Vit’
and ‘Chet’ both oppose the move, ‘Vit’ joins Aryak and ‘Chetj' is imprisoned by

