A Much
Cherished Reminiscence

THE YEAR 1979 has ushered in the twenty-ﬁfth year of the Delhi Children’s

Theatre. An experimental group venture in creative dramatics which came into being with
uncertain future in 1954 had the good fortune in blossoming into a healthy young plant
sending out its branches in different directions indicating possibilities and
the growth of art education of children in our country.

dimensions in

Creative art, as understood and still being interpreted, by and large, conﬁnes
within limits of school-room teaching. It was in 1951 a group named ‘Children’s Little
Theatre’ under the dynamic leadership of Shri Samar Chatterjee came from Calcutta and
demonstrated before the Delhi audience how young artists could be trained and encouraged
to perform on stage-playing the roles of characters of such selected items which
not only

inspire the young children to participate in them but will be equally enjoyed by the
audience of their own age group. The presentation of the Children’s Little Theatre at the
AIFACS Hall in 1952 was a great success. The idea caught the imagination
of a few men
and women who had been working in the ﬁeld of education and carrying on ५ the
extra

curricular activities for healthy and all round growth of the young
ones. This group
gathered together and as an experiment started a small training centre for
boys and girls
of the age group of ﬁve and ten.

The classes were held after school hours thrice a week.

Lady Irwin Higher Secondary School, (Tanning Road, New Delhi, very kindly offered free
accommodation for holding the classes.

The method of teaching was primarily based on rhymes, rhythms and free movement so that natural music sense of the children admitted to the Centre were, for the ﬁrst
time in their lives, learning to set their steps to music. And yet it was a surprise to their
parents as well as to the adult organisers to ﬁnd how easily the children responded to the
rhymes and rhythms which were specially composed for being tried out. In the light of
their experience of running the centre for a few months, the organisers became so conﬁdent

of its success that they decided to present the items prepared at the Centre before the
public.

The ﬁrst Festival of the Delhi Little Children’s Theatre was thus held in Delhi in
1955, which was graced by our beloved the then Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru.
As the organisation did not have any funds at their disposal to hire a hall for presentation
of their items, it was held in the Gymnasium Hall of the School.

The entire crowd of

