youngsters sat on the ﬂoor.

Even our honoured guest with his daughter sat on the ﬂoor

in the midst of the children.

It was a great day for the nascent organisation.

However,

the plight of the children being packed in a closed hall, with no graded gallery for viewing
the performance and also without any acoustic arrangement, did not escape the eyes of the

great lover of children.

He advised the promotors that immediate steps should be taken

to build a children’s Theatre Hall where not only the productions of Children’s Theatre

could be staged but regular shows could be organised fOr young people. To the great
surprise of all, Panditji sent a cheque for Rs. 15,000/- being his contribution to the fund
for thercstablishment of Children’s Theatre Halls, in Delhi and Calcutta .

ted
Years rolled on, and as the organisers of Delhi Children’s Theatre were confron
own ^
with many a teething problem, to their great disappointment the dream of having their
of a
ment
Theatre Hall has not yet come true. Nevertheless, it may not be an overstate

sense of optimism that the dream has reached in its fruition stage. A site measuring 0.72
acres, centrally situated near the market place of Defence Colony in New Delhi, has been
acquired by the Delhi Children’s Theatre. The plan of the Theatre Hall has been drawn by

Messrs Kacker Associates. A philanthropic Trust of Delhi viz. Laxman Trust has already
offered to contribute a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs. The Ministry of Education have also come
forward with a handsome ﬁnancial assistance. Ratan Tata Memorial Trust have already
contributed a sum of Rs, 10,000 for this project. Friends and supporters are earnestly
trying to raise more funds. Yet, with the high cost of construction and equipment it will not
be possible to complete the entire project in a year. The work however, will be taken up

tnis year so that the next Festival can be held in our own place.
We are deeply conscious of the fact that bricks and mortar alone will not help us
reach our objectives. The theatre Hall will no doubt provide us with physical facilities.
Nevertheless, the organisers will have to work hard selflessly to give a deﬁnite personality
to the organisation and help putting in such contributions which are essential to meet the
challenges of the time. The seV en training Centres which are being run presently is only a
drop in the ocean.

On account of various constraints, both in respect of funds and trained

personnel, we have limited our activities through institutional members only.

However, it

is not a small measure of satisfaction that from a tiny training centre having less than
twenty trainees, it has spread to seven centres under experienced choreographers, directors
and trained music hands with 600 boys and girls.

Our earlier festivals hardly had three

evening shows for the beneﬁt of a few hundred children and their parents.

During the

Skillver Jubilee festival more than twentyﬁve thousand children are expected to wjtness the
s ows.

We are conscious of the fact that children belonging to the depressed section of
the society cannot participate in the festival by paying the entrance fees even though it is
meagre. In order to offset this handicap two days of the Festival (i. e. six shows) will be
reserved for children from the free primary municipal schools covering twelve thousand

children.

It is on our card that when the Theatre Hall will be ready, children of the

