depressed parts of the capital will be invited for free shows at least one day in the week,

This will be organised in full cooperation with the Municipal authorities and other
voluntary organisations.

We have been carrying on our work in a modest way since 1954 and adjusting the
technique and method of our training scheme and also the subject matter for the items.
Nevertheless, we took it on us that a loud thinking on all-India basis would be necessarv

t0 Clarify What is meant by art education for children, and particularly in relation to
theatre form of art for the young ones.
Under the leadership of Smt. Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya, and in cooperation
‘ with the Bharatiya Natya Sangh, we had organised an All India Seminar on Children’s

.I‘heatre in New Delhi from lst to 4th November 1965, in which participants represen
ting
attended.
abroad
from
experts
six
36 Indian organisations working in the ﬁeld and

The Seminar was a great success in the sense that for the ﬁrst time experts and
workers in the ﬁeld got together to celebrate on the direction of further development of

Children’s Theatre movement in the country.

Besides, another pertinent suggestion came

up from the gathering for the formation of an All-India Federation of the organisations

working in the ﬁeld in the country. ५ This body shall eventually help strengthen and
coordinate the work of constituent organisations without interfering with their autonomy.
दृ Delhi Childrens Theatre was requested to take the lead in this respect. It is our earnest

’ hope that all efforts will be made to implement the recommendation as soon as the permanent place is built with adequate facilities.
is also the InterIt is a happy coindidence that the Silver Jubilee Year of the DCT
national Year of Child.

I end this note with no small measure of optimism that as the sapling planted by a
into a mighty tree.
few inexperienced hands twenty-ﬁve years ago has today grown
access to the
There is no doubt that it will grow mightier still enabling the children to get

living traditions of our art and culture.
Lakshmi Mazumdar.

