“D e epa”
(A musical Play)
Presented by
Nursery and K. G. Department, Happy School, Daryaganj

The ballet depicts the story of ‘Deepa’, a young girl who due to negligence of her
parents and the harsh treatment of the teacher has lost interest in her studies. She spends

most of her time dancing amongst the ﬂowers and butterﬂies in the garden. At eventide,
she is lost in the beauty of stars and other heavenly bodies, with ecstasy. She is also
affected by the easy and lazy life of the bull who whiles away and the crow who admonished her f'or being self-willed and wasting her time in the garden. She is unable to resolve
the conﬂict in her mind and falls asleep.
' She is jolted into the harsh realities of life by the fairies. She ﬁnds that even beauty
of the ﬂowers is short lived as they wither away soon.
All the beauties of life are futile without knowledge and it is only kuowledge that
enhances the richness of life in all varied hues. As the truth dawns on her, she is
inevitably drawn towards a quest for her friends, parents and her school, the temple of
learning.

El
“The Kings Pocket Knife”
(One Act Play)
by Enid Blyton
Presented by
Delhi Public School, Mathura Road
The King, who believes in all work and no play, visits his garden and ﬁnds his
gardeners sitting and talking. This makes him very angry. He tells his gardeners to
work hard and look after the garden well. He takes a round of the garden, ﬁnds a dead
rose on a bush, takes out his pocket knife, which is a magic one and cuts off the rose and
this annoys him very much.

On the other hand the gardeners think that they work very hard and they deserve a
holiday. They put in a request for a holiday which, of course is turned down by the king.
In the Process 0f Cutting the rose, the king loses his magic pocket knife. He creates
much fuss about it. Everyone, who visits the palace is searched in vain. At last Pixie

Bright Eyes is called to cast her magic spell to make the robber fall asleep.

on the king. WhO unthinkineg had put the knife in his own pocket.

The spell falls

The gardener’s ﬁrst

re-aCtion is to let the king sleep so that they could have a ﬁne holiday. But then their good
sense prevails upon them and they request Pixie to cast off her magic spell. When the
King wakes up he feels very embarrassed and also greateful to his gardeners for not letting
anyone know that the knife was found in his own pocket. He gives a holiday to everybody,

st

