A Word from the Producer
The Author Wrote:

“Look Back in Anger” shocked and irritated a

great many people. Others were enthusiastic and threw their hats in the
air.
Some said it was boring living in a world without morality, others
that its sense of morality was overwhelming.
To become angry is to care, and surrounded as we often are by
pedantic indifference, apathy and a general state of casual funk, it does no
harm if one can move a few people to tip up their seats noisily and walk
out of the theatre.
Unfortunately, we are still suffering from an Ibsenite hangover that
leads everyone to search frantically for a message. Too many people, when
they enter the theatre, put their emotional responsiveness in their pockets
with their bag of sweets so that they won’t rustle or distract. If a play is
serious, they watch abstractedly, and wait impatiently for the commercial.
“Yes, all right, but what are you selling ?” This play has its commercials,
several of them; Your response to it will depend on the kind of person
you are, but, above all, it is a play about people. If a play doesn’t deal
with recognisable human beings it is nothing and has no place on any
stage. You must work out the social, moral and political implications for
yourself.”
Although this play has a central character in Jimmy Porter, one of
the longest parts ever written — it is not a play of one character —
there are ﬁve, and all of them have their important purpose of reflecting the
theme surrounding the central character. In Alison you have a weak empty
woman, a piece of chaﬁ” blown around by the slightest breeze. Helena,
cold, hard, calculating on the exterior but underneath a depth of passion
which smothers any other feeling. Cliﬁ‘ is not really an ignorant oaf, but
has a really deep feeling of cornradeship for Jimmy. I like this character
who sits like a ﬁrm rock letting the stream of life go by without being
engulfed in it. The Colonel, Alison’s father, has only one small but very
important scene, depicting something of what arouses the anger in this
young son-in-law.
The Bears and Squirrels motif is one which has caused a great
deal of misunderstanding but is indicative of two people who could no
longer bear the pain of being human beings, retreating into an unholy
priesthole and become little furry creatures with little furry brains, full of
dumb, uncomplicated affection for each other.
The play ends in the. completion of the circle, one feels this is really
not an end but another begmning. It is all going to happen again.

_
There is much to like and dislike in the play, but I hope, dear
audience, the most important part of the play, you will ﬁnd that you have
spent an interestmg evening in the theatre.

Walter Gardner-Stanbridge

