Vibraphone. Each key has a bamboo resonator
underneath that is carefully tuned to its pitch as a natural
form of ampliﬁcation. The pitches between pairs of
instruments are tuned slightly apart so that

simultaneously struck ‘unisons‘ produce a beating,
shimmering effect.

Only the four genders are used to accompany stories
from the Mahabharata. For the Ramayana and other
sources they are supplemented with ﬂute, two double-

headed hand drums that play interlocking parts, cymbals
and various gong and gong-kettles for marking time in
the cyclical musical forms: the ensemble is called gender
wayang bate], providing a louder, livelier sound for
fighting scenes.

Ramayana: Background
The Indian epic that tells the story of Rama consists of
24,000 verses. The seventh—century Java—Ba]i version is the
longest poem in old Javanese literature, and its
uninterrupted pOpularity is attested by the temple bas
reliefs, carvings and paintings, literary derivatives, and
performances that have been based on its episodes
down through the centuries to the present.

Ramayana: Performance

The Fall of Kamba/eama
Ravana, the enemy of Rama and the ruler of the island
kingdom of Alengka, has two younger brothers who

disagree with his kidnapping of Rama‘s wife Sita: the
youngest brother in the name of duty to his homeland.
Upon awakening, Kumbakarna consumes vast

quantitites of food. Ravana orders him to depart for the
battleﬁeld and kill Rama, his half brother laksamana, and

Vibisana. Kumbakama tries to persuade Ravana to
negotiate peacefully for an end to the hostilities, but this
only angers Ravana, who forces him to choose sides and

goads him into a rage. Kumbakarna prepares his battle
gear, and in accordance with custom, is given a pre»
victory fete.
later, on his way to the battlefield, Kumbakarna is

repeatedly attacked by a black raven, and his battle- flag

is torn and shredded by the wind. 'Ihese ill omens make
apparent to him his own imminent defeat and death. In
the end, he decides it will be better to die in the
territory held by Rama rather than in Ravana’s kingdom.

