SHRI RAM CENTRE ACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally known as the Indian
National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural
Organization, its objective is to nuture and develop talent in the performing arts and its
programmes are organised towards this end.
Theatre Repertory :

Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading companies of the
country. The repertoire of outstanding plays performed by Repertory including Sakhararn
Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji & Pogla Ghoda have contributed signiﬁcantly to Hindustani drama in the country. Besides performing regularly in Delhi,
the Repertory also stags sponsored shows in other parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern plays in various
styles and forms under the direction of such eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B . V.
Karanth. Rajendranath, B .M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has performed
54 Hindi plays since its inception.
Acting Course :

To encourage young amateurs, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts conducts a two year
part time training programme. The 1 st year is devoted to in-depth study an all aspects of
theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on
Indian-classical, experimental, Western and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a
professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi—theatre’s future, Students who complete the
course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School
of Drama or the Media.
Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures :

The Shri Ram Memorial lectures held annually since 1986 are aimed at presenting and documenting the life-time achievements of theatre luminaries of the century. The three days lec—
ture sessions delivered earlier by such famous theatre personalities as Utpal Dutt, Habib
Tanvir, Badal Sircar, Nemichand Jain, Vijay Tendulkar etc. are published by us for theatre
po sterity.
Children Theatre Workshop :

The SRC Children Theatre Workshop is one-month production oriented workshop conducted
during Summer vacation every year under the guidance of a renowned Camp director. This
feature is aimed to impart theatrical values to children and to improve their communication
5kil l s .

"रौ n i - 3 ठे 2 तै

