Message
Not

much

was

known

about the

continent of Africa or its people until a few
decades ago. The colonial powers had
deliberately made no serious efforts to

understand the people of Africa. Ibey
despised Africans and regarded them as
inferior and uncivilized peoples gifted with
poor intellect, incapable of karning or
achieving anything, and apeople without any
historical and cultural heritage. All this myth
stands fully exploded today as a result of the
researches made by numerous scholars all

would enable them to acquire some
knowledge about Africa. Cassettes ofA/rican
songs are also being played be ore the you rig

over the world. 7he manifold achievements

audience. All this, I am sure, will expose our

registered by African people themselves in all

young children to the diz 'ersity and richness of
African culture, and help them form correct
attitudes towards Africa and itspeople. 'Ihese
children are the future citizens of our
country and, therefore, it is r'zecessary that
they should grow up with correct attitudes
towards, and love for, and smzpathy u ith, the
people ofAfrica, if we want to carryforwar'd
the work of promoting greater
understanding, friendship and cooperation
with African people— the work to which the
Indian and African governments have
already committed themselves. Ihe National
Schoold of Drama, by choosing Africa as the

walks of life have also helped to dispel many a
misconception about them.
In May this year, cultural troupes from

several countries of Africa visited India and
gave spectacular performances of African
dances and music before spell— bo u nd Indian
audiences in various cities, as they had done

a few years ago. 7heseperformances enabled
the people of India to have a glimpse into the
cultural richness and variety of Africa. Such

culturalfestivals ofAfrica in India, and vice
versa, are bound to increase our
understanding of each other and extend the

vista of our mutual friendship beyond

theme for its Children’s workshop thisyear, is

political and economic horizons. Apart from
that, these cultural exchanges wouldprovide

supplementing the efforts of the lr1dia—- Africa

an opportunity for inter—mingling and
corss—fertilization of two great cultures,

thereby enriching both of them.
The National School of Drama, a

Society is specially happy because it is itself
engaged in a similiar exercise. Our heartiest
congratulations go to the Director of the
School, Shri Rattan 'Ihiarn, for his most
imaginative and constructive approach in

choosing Africa
premier institution of dramatics in the
country could not have done better than to

choose Africa as the theme for the Children’s
Workshop being organized by it this year. A

as the theme for the

ब्लॉ Children’s Workshop this year, and to Shri
Pankaj Saxena for conducting and
supervising the Workshop with great
efficiency and dedication.

number of plays written hr African authors
shall be staged this year by child artists
participating in

the

WOrkshop.

Besides,

several films on or about Africa produced by
the United Nations are being shown to the
children admitted to the Workshop, which

(Dr. SC. SAXENA)
Secretary
India—Africa Society.

