Manipuri Fine Arts Centre (R

(Lie—iv

Founder Nartanacharya Shlromani Late Guru Chandra Kan
(Govt. Aided & Recognised Centre)
रं

ghaﬁ ,

OUR CREATlVE MISSION

’Manipuri Fine Arts Centre’ (Re d.) was
established in the year 1958 and was registered-TF-t'ﬁe—T
year 1 965. It was the dream and a result of over 3 decades
of late Guru Chandra Kanto Singha’s untiring efforts that it
is one of the most energetic platform which has helped
Art and Culture of Manipur to spread all over the country
and to ﬁnd a place for itself in the national and international
arts arena. Before registration of this Centre, a few artists
from Man i pur assembled in the Capital to give
performances organised by other organisations and earned
a good name.
They

were able to collect huge amount

for

Defence Fund in 1963 after the Chinese aggression. They
also performed in Balrampur estate, Lucknow and
Allahabad to collect the defence funds under late Smt.
Indira Gandhi when she was Chairman of the Central Citizen
Council. in the month of May 1963, our artists performed
in Sapru House to collect Defence Funds, late Panditji
Jawaharlal Nehru and late Indira Gandhi were invited to
witness this and after the performance were presented

with the cheque. Later inspired and encouraged by Panditji
Jawaharlal Nehru our artists went to Leh,‘ Darbok at Ladakh
and Jammu & Kashmir for 2 months. Our artists performed
in front of the Army in Leh at T'risul Cinema Hall and Darbok

region at the height of i 1000 to 19000 ft. with the help
of Oxygen. It was a very thrilling experience as not other
performing artists have ever performed in those areas.
Our artists have been regularly giving
performances in the Capital’s auditoriurns and in Rashtrapati
Bhawan during foreign dignatories visit to India. Their
Performances have greatly appreciated by press and
public. Many of our students are working in various Cultural
Centres in our Country and as teachers in schools here in
India as well as abroad. We have performed all over the
world as Cultural delegates under ICCAR and other bodies.
After many years of struggle for a permanent abode we
have been allotted a land in R.K. l’uram and late Rajiv
Gandhi laid the Foundation Stone for this Centre in March
1991 . Every year we organised the Festival to mark our
beloved Guruj i ’5 Birth Anniversary and also to take a vow
that all of us will make his life's longdream come true.

Secretary - Director

Krishan Kant Singha

