ita’s Ras Panch Adhyay
m

II

unto Kass
काहँ।" fl (स्म
Brinda De i enters the garden on full moon night
as Sakhi. She goes into the forests to choose a location for
rasleelaTOrrthe-way she passes kunjban (“part of a Jungle")

rnadhuban and Kalindi l’ulinban.
She plucks ﬂowers and makes garlends to decorte
rasmandal and arranges a place at rnadhuban on the banks
of the river Jamuna, Which is enlivend by lovely sandlewood

and by the scent of fresh ﬂowers around the rasrnandal. This
is where Lord Krishna and Radha will play with the gopikas
in the ghee-lit diyas 8. sweet scented water in the mandali.
Scene One : " Lord Krishna Abhisar"

On hearing the messenger’s call. Lord Krishna
wakes and emerges from his home for abhisar. He is keen
to meet Radha and gopikas but is afraid of his elders and
whisperingly asks his footbells not to jingle ! Escaping into
the open ﬁeld, Lord krishna sings and dances in excitment
in the expectation of meeting his dear ones. On reaching
the rnandali he plays the ﬂute which soon attracts the gopikas

who start for abhisar with Radha.
Scene Two : "Radha abhisar"

The seductive notes of the ﬂute excites Radha, who
asks the gopikas to proceed to the rasrnandali. On the way
they pluck the lovely ﬂowers that are in glorius full bloom

and make beautiful garlands for their

Lord and Master.

The path, however, is noisy and slippery. The soft and gentle

footsteps add to the atmosphere for romantic anticipation,
Some of the maids shower ﬂower- petals on the pathway so
that the delicate Radha can move softly and safely.

Soon they reach Lord Krishna who welcomes them with his
usual sophistication. The gopikas pray for a long life of fun,
happiness and pleasure for Lord Krishna and Radha.
Lord Krishna then teaches them the magic movements of
rasrnandali and uses the rhythmic dictum : Tatro bastro tetro

retro jotra netro tetro bhovan : (Where the hands will go the
eyes will follow ; Where the eyes will go the mind will
follow).
Scene Third : "Ras bhangi parang“

This dance is performed clockwise and anticlockwise
and is a challenge to Modern Choreography. Man ipuri ’ s have
often been difﬁrent to perform what is essential. The dance
of Lord Krishna, called Natra], the. King of Dance - the dance
with the sakhis is known as Krishna Swarup Bhangi, market
by geometric precision of dance movements and by a rigid
rhythmic disipline and is reinforced by songs sung in classical ragas.Rasleela is performed in temples and lasts for over
nine incantatory hours through the night.

