.

'

३

.

English poet, player and playwright, was
born in Warwickshire on April 23, 1564. He
attended grammar school at Stratford where
he got a working knowledge of "small Latin
and less Greek". He married at the age of 18
to Anne Hathaway who was older than him
by 8 years. He drifted from Stratford to
London and was soon involved in theatre.
At the age of 28, when he had begun to
emerge as a playwright, Shakespeare
provoked the jealousy of scholar-poets who
claimed a monopoly of writing for the stage.
Shakespeare was not only a playwright and an
actor but also a shareholder in his company.
On the average, he must have written two
plays a year for the Chamberlain‘s Company.
Most of his plots were taken either from earlier
literature or historical chronicles but his genius
made them unique masterpieces. ln 1599, he
became one of the the 'householders' of the
new 'Globe Theatre' with a one-tenth share. in

1 61 0, he sold his share and retired to Stratford.
A month after signing his will, Shakespeare
died on April 23, 1616.
Of his 38 plays, only sixteen were printed
in his lifetime but in 1623, a volume of 36
plays was published. Written for a truly
popular theatre, they retained popularity for
every century since their first performances.
They were often performed in adaptations
with alternative endings or additional scenes.
By the 19th century, under the influence of

critics like Coleridge and Hazlitt, his greatness
as a poet and dramatist was universally
acknowledged. The critic Morgann says that
Shakespeare, "boldly makes a character act

and speak from those parts of the
composition, which are inferred oniy, and not
distinctly shown". This seems to carry us
beyond the words of a text to a representation
of human nature itself. Shakespeare's
capacity for seeing his characters "whole and
as it were original" not imitated, more as
historic than dramatic beings is now seen as
central to his purpose.
His plays can be categorized as historical
plays, comedies and tragedies. 'Macbeth‘ is a
tragedy with tremendous sweep and cosmic
resonances, exploring the mysteries and
fascination of evil. The distinction of all
Shakespearean tragedies lies in their dramatic
power evolved by dialogue as well as action,
rhythm and images compelling attraction.

More than those of any other dramatist,
Shakespeare's plays have been performed
internationally. Many countries produce his
plays more often than those of native
dramatists, a fact all the more remarkable in
View of the difficulty of translating his rich,
idiomatic Elizabethan verse.
Shakespeare's capacity to break through
linguistic barriers derives from his perceptive
compassion for people, his ability to
dramatize ideas and his appreciation of the
dramatic impact of ambiguity. Throughout the
world, to play the great Shakespearean roles
continues to be the ambition of every actor
aspiring to greatness.

Richa Nayyar

