रा- -.९३३- .-. - ".-. -."." हूँद्विहैंएँ'दृहूँहैंहुँनुहैंरेंड्डमृ

रुमारिक्रदृ 2014

ताहुआ चप्टित
लेखक … काशीनाथ सिह
निर्देशक - राजनारायण दीक्षित

प्रस्तुति तो प्ररत्ताव, देहली
Director Note
The series of events and the dialogues put down, while adapting the novel Mahua (harit for stage, found a home deep in the heart. Mahua

(harit brings out her loneliness in middle class Indian ambiance. In her solitude, Mahua makes the terraced roof the witness of her agony. The roof
gives the questions and the conflicts raising head within her mind a direction. It becomes Mahua's energy.
While performing six blocks in total were used which create different sites of incidents. When Mahua ties her knot, getting over her
past, after the abortion she happens to encounter with her pre marital relationships with Saiid. It brings a chaos in her married life. While trying to

keep her relationship intact, a self-perception finally rises within her and she stands up confident in front of Ilarshul with her strong financial side.
Mahua raises the questions which come forward as the feminine debate rising from big platforms and organizations. Mahua reaches
the conclusive questions during her determination what such is there in the body as it loses nothing but entire relationships of soul is ruined.

Synopsis
Mahua (harit in an account of the longings roaming in the endless forest of life. Exhibiting the rnentation of the middle class Indian woman, Mahua
with her loneliness makes the terraced roof her partner where she opens, exhibitions and sports. The roof becomes a live witness of Mahua's
conflict. Bringing forward the abnormalities of psychic and bodily demands of man and woman. Mahua with her financial independence, strength
and self respect stands in front of Harshul.

An old freedom fighter's daughter Mahua's journey from body-infatuation to the marriage and then cognition of self, raising head
within her comes forward in social context. Despite the echo of women debate rising from the prominent big platforms and the organizations the

question takes the shape that what such is there in the body that it loses nothing while entire relationships of soul are quite destroyed.

