W 9th Asia-Pacific Bureau Meet 0f
dr'ar co s to held at NSD
३।u"_

PRESS TBIIST llf llillllii
New Delhi, 13 October

The ninth edition of the AsiaPacific Bureau Meet of drama schools will be held at the
National School of Drama
(NSD) here from October 19
to October 25.
The meet seeks to examine
contemporary performance
culture in Asia and elements
of traditionalism that have
contributed to it. It will see
participation by 14 drama
schools from across 10 countries including India, China,
South Korea, Indonesia, Iran,
Japan, Malaysia, Philippines,
Thailand and Bangladesh,
the organisers said today
The festival, which was
held in Singapore last year
will serve as a platform to ex_ _change and promote India‘s
theatre legacy internationally, Waman Kendre, Director
of National School of Drama
said. “India has a unique signiﬁcance in terms of historic
culture. Despite of our rich

understand the dynamics of
theatre in other countries,”
NSD professor Tripurari
Sharma said. The event will
also delve deeper into the artistic capabilities of different
Asian countries and how a
cultural exchange between
them and with the rest of the
world could be facilitated.
“Has Asia got anything
unique to offer the world in
terms of arts and culture?
This is something that we
will try to ﬁnd answers to. We
want our students to be able
to make a mark in international theatre. They hould also get to realise that they

$333.21. liilﬁ

.. . ८

a

have an identity outside Indi;

5-...

Prof. Waman Kendre dirctor NSD , Tripurari Shanna and Ashok Sagar Bhagat , addressing the press conference and
announced 9th Asia - Pacific Bureau Theatre at Sammukh auditorium, National School of Drarnain on Thursday. eSns

traditions, we have not been
able to promote this heritage
at the global level completely.
Therefore, this festival is an
opportunity to exchange and
promote this legacy withoth—
er nations,” he said. The seven-day event has been themed
after The strength of Asia in

Contemporary Performance
and Culture' and will see the
participating schools exploring the nuances of different
cultures in theater performances and technical aspects
related to it. Each school will
conduct a workshop for participants, providing a glimpse

of their respective training
methodologies. Practical sessions in a studio space will a1so be held.
“Students will perform
drama sequences for about 40
minutes under the direction
of their teachers. It is an attempt to help our students

as well,” Sharma said. To en-‘
sure that language does not
become an impediment during interactions, the school
has arranged for interpreters
in Japanese, Chinese and
Korean languages. NSD's performances during the meet
will include traditional art
forms like 'nautanki', 'chau',
'mallakhamba' and suﬁ music among others.
/

