MONDAY 2 DECEMBER: EXPERIMENTAL THEATRE, NCPA

Sonata (English)
Play: Mahesh Elkunchwar
Director: AMAL ALLANA
Theatre 81 Television Associates, Delhi
About the Play
Shubada, a Sanskrit lecturer and writer, and

Dolon, employed in a multinational bank,
have been sharing a flat in Mumbai for the
last 17 years. It is a Sunday evening,
Shubada is busily correcting exam papers,
while Dolon, bored, tries to distract

Shubada from her work. The arrival of their
old college friend, Aruna, is a welcome relief
to the long evening. Aruna has been beaten
up by her latest boyfriend, a garagewalla,
and has come here for a few moments of
respite. Their reunion calls for a celebration.
They drink and carouse till well past
midnight, only to be interrupted by
Sangrarn, who calls Aruna back. She leaves
her friends with misgivings. The evening
continues into night with Shubada and
Dolon, now quite high, accusing one
another of betraying the friendship. Perhaps
for the first time, they confront the truth of
their sexuality and consequently come to
understand what this relationship means to
them.

Director ’5 Note
A quietly disturbing play, Mahesh
Elkunchwar’s Sonata, with great restraint
and sensitivity, surveys the fallout of the
women’s movement of the 19705. Having
opted out of a conventional life-style of

marriage and children, determined to make
it alone, on their own terms, these very
same women, now thirty years later, are no
longer engaged in the struggle to prove
themselves. Isolated figures caught in the
vacuous bustle of city life, cut off from their
families and regional roots, these women
have withdrawn into the shadows of airless
flats, retreated into their private worlds of
reality and fantasy. Mellowed by time and
circumstance, we observe their attempt to

overcome the sense of dislocation and ennui
that big city life breeds and to sort out the
tangled skeins of their multi-cultured
experience.

About the Group
Theatre & Television Associates, established

। ९१३३

I

,m , / /

