WEDNESDAY 4 DECEMBER: Y.B. CHAVAN CENTRE

K61 ha 71 Ka 171'!” (Hindi)
Play: Rajesh Joshi
Director: BANSI KAUL
Rang Vidushak, Bhopal
About the Play

Kalzan Kabir speaks neither of Kabir as a
protagonist, nor does it develop as a linear
story around his personal life. An attempt
has been made to see his philosophy as a
reality. It has therefore been necessary to
view Kabir beyond the cycle of birth and
death.
A multiple narration gradually takes
shape with the unfolding of interpretations
of Kabir’s verses. The comments made by
the Sutradhar act as a bridge between the

thoughts of the common man and the
intellectual interpretations of the Vidvans.
The narration itself, therefore, is threefold:

the analytical approach of the Sutradhar ,
the intellectual ranting of the Vidvans, and
the simple interpretation of the common

around the life of Kabir , nor is he depicted
as the conventional protagonist. His disgust
for those who institutionalize religion is
depicted starkly in many of his verses. His
verses speak of the atrocities inflicted on
the common man by the affluent.
Each of Kabir’s verses, whether they are
sung or recited, have musical character,

which is also the base of the entire
production. The rhythm within the music
of Kabir’s poetry has been rendered in the
form of physical movement, cutting right
through the performance area.
Kalmn Kabir is basically a rendition of
Kabir’s philosophy: his rejection of every
kind of ritual, his staunch belief that the

fights between socio-religious sects, the
interpretations and misinterpretations of

Absolute is within one Self and that the Self
is a part of the Absolute, and his opposition
to social malpractices. The play, therefore, is
not structured as a linear story .
The production draws upon Kabir’s

his ulatlmsis, and his own intervention

verses, which picture the times he lived in,

during the fight of his followers over his
dead body are all incidents which have in
their own way lent colour to the narration.

and his resistance to social customs forced
on to the masses. He has been viewed more
as a revolutionary than a saint. His fight for
truth continues to this day. Kabir lives
within the beliefs of the common man. His
stories have kept him alive among the

man. Kabir’s birth, the times he lived in, the

Director ’5 Note
Kalmn Kabir is not a linear story developing

