SUNDAY 8 DECEMBER: Y.B. CHAVAN CENTRE

Deewar Men E/e Khid/ei Rahti Thi (Hindi)
Based on the novel by Vinod Kumar Shukla
Adaptation & Direction: MOHAN MAHARISHI
NSD Repertory Company, Delhi
About the Play

Vinod Kurnar Shukla’s novel does not
present an excruciating conflict, or an age—
old truth, or a massive spectacle; it does not
set out to preach or teach. It simply mirrors
the life of the lower middle class. There is
no villain here who ‘would wreak havoc
with his brutal deeds’, yet the descriptions
of the tiny hopes, of the innocence of the
entire class, its day-to-day battles, evoke a
sense of the cruelty that circumstances
force on ordinary lives. Vinod Kurnar
Shukla’s sharp observation, and his apt
portrayal of relationships, ambience, and
neighborhood interactions create a
compelling story. The presence of nature in
all its sensuousness is so overpowering that
it becomes a separate entity in the play.
The author’s greatest achievement is
the strong sense of identification that he
creates with his characters. Very few
contemporaries display the profound
understanding, the empathy, and the
minute observation that characterise the
works of Vinod Kumar Shukla.

Director ’5 Note
I am constantly looking for material that
could be used to make theatre. This search
has taken me in many directions. Taking a
well—made play, even a classic, and then
delving deep into it to look for great
universal truths does not interest me any
more. It seems to me that there is a great
deal of material outside the existing body of
dramatic literature which could make a
wonderful new theatre, which would not

only give our audiences enjoyment but

would also take theatre forward.
The subject matter of Vinod Kumar
Shukla’s novel Deewar Mein El: Kink/lei Rnlzti
let' is the life of a lower middle class family,
and its idiom is strikingly rich and fresh.
The crystallization of many small incidents,

which appear to be ordinary on the surface,
are presented with a deep insight into
human psychology.

About the Group
The National School of Drama Repertory
was initially formed in 1964-65 on an
experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi. It
consisted of only four actors. It later
expanded into a larger group of actors,
musicians and technicians, mainly drawn

from graduates of the National School of
Drama, Delhi. The Repertory Company has
been headed by eminent artistes such as
Om Shivpuri, Manohar Singh, Uttara
Baokar, Surekha Sikri, IN. Kaushal, and

Ram Copal Bajaj.
Cast

Ajnabi: Covind Panday
Raghuvar: Teekarn Joshi
S0 ns i : So narnoni Banerj ee/ 5 eerna

Principal: Kuldeep Sareen

