TUESDAY 10 DECEMBER: PRI'THVI THEATRE

Suman Aur Sana (Hindi)
Play 81 Direction: NADIRA ZAHEER BABBAR

Ekj ut e, Murnbai
About the Play

Log toot [ate hain ek ghar banane mein

Communal hatred resulting in devastating

Tum taras nahin khate bastian ['alane mein

riots is not new to our country; perhaps it is

because of the routineness of such trauma
that our society, by and large, has gradually
become insensitive to such happenings.
Suman Aur Sana is an effort to focus on
the human angle of this issue. The play
focuses on riot victims who have been
attacked and driven out of their homes
without having to do anything with the
political correctness or wrongness of the
issues involved.
The play, written in the form of a
collage, tries to show glimpses of these
people’s lives in refugee camps — their
trials, their traumas, and their efforts to

come to terms with their present situation.
The play moves through the barriers of
space and time through the symbol of a
little girl called Suman/Sana.
The story is narrated through the eyes
of this symbolic little destitute girl.
Through her eyes, we see the insecurities
and humiliation one human being is
subjected to because of another human
being. A misfortune poignantly expressed
by Bashir Badr:

Director’s Note
I have been doing theatre for the past thirtytwo years. Sometimes ordinary, sometimes
good. I have recently written two plays,
Dayashankar Ki Dairy and Sakubai. Suman

Aur Sana is my third play. A play which I
very strongly believe in.
Theatre is my work, passion, life. We are

not here to give political sermons. But we do
feel it will be dishonest if we keep our eyes
closed to what is happening all around us.
As the famous German poet Martin
Niernoller has warned us,
In Germany the Nazis came first for the
communists and I did not speak up because I
was not a communist,

Then they came for the jews, and I did not
speak because I was not a few.
Then they came for the trade unions, and I
did not speak because I was not a trade
unionist,
Then they came for the Catholics, and I was

a Protestant and so I did not speak up,
Then they came for me, and by that time
there was no one left to speak for anyone.

