TUESDAY 10 DECEMBER: Y.B. CHAVAN CENTRE

Mad/Mia Malanchi Kainya (Bengali)
Play 8i Direction: BIBHASH CHAKRABORTY,

Anya Theatre, Kolka t a
Kainya came from a commitment to theatre.

About the Play
The dying king’s youngest son Madhab has to
flee from the kingdom as his other brothers
fall out over succession to the throne. The

King’s eldest daughter—in-law Chandraban
hands over a magic necklace to Madhab as a
departing gift. Madhab reaches another
kingdom, and is spotted by the Wazir who
brings up Madhab as his own child.
Madhab as a young man is attracted to
Malanchi, the young princess of the kingdom
who is already engaged to another prince.
They agree to elope with the help of the
magic necklace. They are however separated.
Eventually Malanchi, in disguise, finds
Madhab, still in search of his beloved.

Director ’5 N016
For twenty-five long years in theatre I have
sought diversity. In this quest I have
endeavoured to rediscover contemporary

playwrights like Mohit Chattopadhyay and
Manoj Mitra and dared to tackle the works of
Brecht and Tagore, on one hand, and Dario F0
and Utpal Dutt on the other.
Thus the idea of [Wadhab Malanclzi

There was only the desire to enrich our
theatre with this experiment in a new style;
there was an urge to draw the contemporary
audience into the orbit of a new theatrical
experience. Madler b Mala rzclz 1' Ka in ya
dramatizes a simple narrative form, the
ancient Mymensingh Ceetika of East Bengal.
We have attempted to recast the original
form, character and narration of the Ceetika,
and presented it in terms of modern theatre
practice.

About the Group
Anya Theatre was formed in 1985 by
Bibhash Chakraborty and has since then
secured a position among the better known
groups of the State. It has bagged several
awards and participated in all the major
festivals of Bengali plays.
During the last three years, Anya
Theatre has organized a unique event titled
Natyaswapnolealpo, which commences at 6
pm. on 3 1 st December and continues
through the morning of 1 st January. It is
now one of the most successful cultural
events in West Bengal.

