THURSDAY 12 DECEMBER: PRITHVI THEATRE

Nupi (Manipuri)
Play & Direction: KANHAI LAL SINCH

Kalakshetra. Irnphal
About the Play
A play about the politics of sex, the
subjugation and exploitation of women
through history, and how society views the
need for the emergence of female
leadership, Nupi weaves together two
separate plays, Draupadi and Izzat.
Although the law of nature conditioned
the man-woman relationship during the
primitive period, things changed as
humankind enters the ‘civilized' and
literate age. Woman is described as being

shaped after the “rotundity of the moon,
the curves of the creepers, the vanity of the
crane." Her beauty is extolled and
denigrated at the same time. In this manner
she is subordinated to man in patriarchal
society.
Ram subjects Sita to a test by fire to
prove her chastity. Sita emerges triumphant
in the test, but the wagging tongues prick
Ram's male vanity and he exiles her to the
forest.
Hollywood's symbol of female beauty,
Marilyn Monroe, was a prisoner of the
make—believe world of the dream
merchants. Her beautiful body and face
were splashed in the media. Marilyn longed
for a life of her own, and motherhood,

which drove her into a series of failed
marriages. and finally to suicide.
Comrade Dopdi (Draupadi) leads the
tribal folk of Jharkhand when her husband,

Comrade Dulna. is eliminated by the
security forces in a fake encounter. Like the
Draupadi of mythology , Dopdi is stripped
and humiliated by security forces. but her
spirit remains defiant.
Director ’5 Note
Nu}?! (Woman) is a re-worked performance

which contains the first. second and third
episodes of 122a! produced in October 2000,
and the fourth episode of Draupadi
produced in January 2000. The logic behind
this is to consolidate and strengthen the
theme. The first three episodes were
originally conceived by me, and the fourth
is based on the story Draupadi by
Mahasweta Devi.

About the Group
Established in 1969 in lrnphal with
Kanhailal as its founder-director ,

Kalakshetra, Manipur, has evolved a
distinctive theatrical style which is
predominantly non-verbal. The group is
dedicated to expressing the most crucial
realities of oppression and resistance in

Manipur through its plays like l’clrct and
{Homoirs ofAfri'ca .

7

