SATURDAY 14 DECEMBER: PRITHVI THEATRE

Mahamayi (Hindi)
Play: Chandrashekhar Karnbar
Design 81 Direction: BHANU BHARTI
Aaj, Udaipur
About the play

Malzanrzayi by Chandrashekhar Kambar is an
extremely sensitive play that deals with the
eternal issue of freedom and death.
Sanjiv, the foster son of Mata Shaitvi or
Mahamayi, is a successful doctor who heals
people as per the whims of his mother, the
Goddess of Death. Frustration and
confusion creeps up in the mind of an
otherwise obedient son. Sanjiv begins to
doubt his own potential as a doctor, since
the ultimate power eventually lies in the
hands of his mother.
He falls in love with a beautiful
princess, suffering from a chronic disease.
Despite his mother ’s warning he chooses to
cure the princess and arouses the wrath of
the Goddess of Death. Mahamayi decides to
kill the princess, despite her son’s feelings
for her. Trying to hide from his omnipresent
mother, he interchanges his soul with that
of the princess’s, since he has been blessed
with a long life by the Goddess herself.
The play reaches a climax when the

About the Group
Aaj Theatre Repertory was founded in
1984. Based in Udaipur, the Repertory has
been widely acclaimed, especially for its
innovative work involving tribal actors of
Rajasthan. Its productions Pas/m Gayam',
Amar Beef, and Kaal Katha have featured in
almost all the major theatre festivals in the

country.

strength of pure, immaculate love is up
against the dark power of death.
Director ’5 Note
A unique motive in Kambar’s works is the

child—parent struggle, which is fraught with
hatred and violence. He uses this struggle as
a complex metaphor in all his writings. But
in Mahamayi this metaphor takes a new
dimension, when the mother is death itself.
I personally think that in Kambar we have a
poet-playwright, who can truly represent
the modern Indian theatre in all its
complexities and strengths.
But a non-Kannada director like me
always has to liberate Kambar’s plays from
their stylistic moorings, which are naturally
deeply rooted in Kannada traditions. In the
process it becomes necessary to make some
structural changes in the plays, as my
earlier production of his Ales Tamaslza (Siri
Sampige ) .

टुडे .
भी

