MONDAY 16 DECEMBER: TATA THEATRE, NARIMAN POINT

Romeo d? juliet (English)
Direction: ALYQUE PADAMSEE
Q Theatre Productions, Mumbai

About the Play
Romeo and Juliet are two heirs of opposing
clans. They meet at a party and fall in love.
In spite of their families’ hatred for one
another, clandestine marriage follows.
Suddenly by a cruel twist of fate, Romeo
kills Juliet’s cousin, Tybalt, in a brawl, and

is banished from the province. A plan is
made whereby Juliet and Romeo can elope,
but Romeo unfortunately doesn’t get news
of this. The resulting confusion leaves the
young lovers committing suicide, all
because of an ancient family feud they had
nothing to do with!
Director ’5 Note
Even though Shakespeare wrote Romeo 62
Juliet more than 400 years ago, it is still as
contemporary as today’s headlines.
Misunderstanding and hatred still drive a
wedge between people who have everything
in common. This is true not only of the
Hindu—Muslim divide, but also applies to Sri
Lanka, to Ireland, to the Middle East and

almost every place on earth.
This is why we have set RdZJ (as we call
it) in India in the year 2002. The play is

about conflict. Conﬂict between not only
two communities, but between parents and
children, and exposes the hypocrisy of
‘arranged marriages’ and the treatment of
servants.
Juliet is a rebel who wants to break out
of the narrow confines of tradition, where a

daughter’s role is to listen and never
disobey. Plays about female characters who
want to change the times they live in have
always attracted me, like Evita, Begum
Sllmt’OO and Mimlmi. In today’s world,
prejudice has no place. But prejudice can

only be overcome by courage. Romeo and
juliet is a play about courage and tearing.
Communities are torn apart. Daughter and

parents are torn apart. The two lovers are
torn apart. This is what happens when
violence meets love.

Cast

Capulet s

Capulet: Chittaranjan Gauba

Madam Capulet: Sukeshi Sondhi
Juliet: Peeya Rai Choudhuri/Tasneem
Nashrulla
Nurse Maid: Manisha Vardhan

Tybalt: Nadir Khan

