REO'I‘I SA R AN S HA R MA
War is terrible.

It is terrible for those who ﬁght it.

terrible for their kiths and kins.

But it is more

The real emotional pain and poignancy of

war is experienced by the mothers, sisters and wives of the ﬁghters. But
where honour is at stake and independence and territory is involved, war must

be fought, however painful and cruel it may be.
The play depicts a mother, a Sister and a wife. Balwant, a JCO in the
army is recalled from leave and sent to front, just three days after his marriage.
His mother, sister and wife have to face the cruelest blow of circumstances.
But they let him go, though not without tears, for the peasant must ﬁght for
his land. Land and daughter, the honour of the two has to be protected—this

is the age old tradition of the peasant. A
Balwant goes to war. How the three poor ladies console each other :
how they ﬁght fear and desperation ; how they take the news of Balwant
reported missing —— it is a tale of tears and real human pathos. But this time
they ﬁnd they are not alone, forlorn or forgotten. People from the village and

from the town come to them and not only share their sorrow but express that
gratitude which a free nation must express to its soldiers.
And ultimately the soldier comes back, but defeated, suffering from
frost bite and blind from sun glare —— though temporary. It is not melodrama.
People have really offered their eyes for soldiers who have lost theirs.

And

Hamid offers his eyes to Balwant. But Balwant’s deepest wound is that he has
returned defeated, for his ammunition had run out.
We were really unprepared. But we are preparing. We will, one day

match the agressor.

So the soldier must be told that next time it will be

different, for we will give him that weapon and equipment which we could not
give so far and that we will take from enemy what we did not take so far — real

ﬁght, vengeance and our land.
And Masterjee, the Village oldman tells it in the idiom, it should be
told — the idiom of strength, hope, and resolution.

