DELHI NATYA SANGH

- 'झाल्या-६३३३५ ।

Dﬂhi Natya Sangh, an organisation primarily devoted to promotion of theatre
activity, was established in 1950 by a small band of theatre enthusiasts They had in view
two distinct roles for the Sangh—coordination of theatre activity in the capital by afﬁliating to it all the groups working in the ﬁeld and to establish an Academy for imparting
instruction and training in various branches of drama to youngmen and women. The

inauguration 0f Delhi NatYa Sangh Was performed by the Late President Dr Rajendra—
Prasad on the lst September 1950. Dr. B. V. Keskar was the ﬁrst President of the Sangh.
He was succeeded by Gurmukh Nihal Singh, Prof. Humayun Kabir and the late Begum
Qudsia Zaidi.
The Sangh has stood up to the expectations of its founders. Since 1951 alniQSt
all important theatre groups of the capital have sought afﬁliation with the Sangh. The
number of these groups, pertaining to various regional languages like Hindi. English,

Paniabi, Bengali, Telugu and Kenneda stands presently at 25.

To integrate their acﬁvities

the Sangh has been organising Competitions and Festival of plays every year.

been distributed for the best productions, best acting and best stagecraft.

Prizes have

In these compe—

titions, apart from regional language theatre groups, foreign groups like U. K. High Com
ADC and American Theatre Association have also taken part. Thus the Sangh has become
the rallying point for active theatre groups

Apart from the above. the Sangh has been sponsoring outside programmes
independently and in collaboration with other organisations. In 1953, the Sangh organised
the Railway Centenary Cultural Festival followed by the first National Drama Festival
in 1954 sponsored by the Sangeet Natak Akademi. In this festival, groups from all over
India "participated and it was the biggest venture sponsored by the Sangh. In January
1956, the Sangh helped in organising Miss Martha Graham’s performences in Delhi. In
September 1956 it organised a song recital by Talat Mahmud . In March 1958, it sponsored
theatrical shows by the Wayne State University Theatre group who came from USA
under the leadership of Mr Leonard Leone. In the India 1958 exhibition, at the invitation of C & I Ministry, the Sangh sponsored 29 performances by different afﬁliated groups
and famous artists like Bade Gulam Ali Khan and Gopi Krishna.
In February 1960, the Sangh prepared itself to play the other role expected of it.
An institution by the name of N ATYA ACADEMY was established for imparting
training to amateurs in dramatics The Academy aided by Sangeet Natak Akademi is
staffed by trained theatre experts. Training in different branches of theatre is imparted
to students deSiI‘OUS of taking dramatics as an entrance to their amateur dramatic ﬁeld.
The Academy has so far completed three full terms in Dec. 62 and is now organising a
special 3 months' course in various branches of theatre art.

The forthcoming Festival. commencing from 10th March, 63 although 3rd
festival of the Sangh, has some special features. Effort has been made to present to Delhi
audience a series of plays in different languages at a ﬁxed theatre hall on alternate days
from 10th March onwards. In all, 11 plays (listed in the following pages), will be presented
by 10 afﬁliated groups of the Sangh.

