Synopsis of the play
This play by Neil Simon is a composite of eight short stories of the great playwright,
novelist and story writer Anton Chekhov. It is translated in Hindi by Ranjit Kapoor.

In the beginning, Chekhov the writer, introduces himself to the audience and narrates the
story of Ivan, who goes to witness a play in theatre and accidently sneezes upon a
dignitary, who happens to be the boss of the ministry, Ivon is working in as a humble
clerk. In the process of pleading his innocence and seeking boss’s pardon, Ivon becomes
more and more embarrassing, pathetic and tragic.
The second story shows a priest, suffering from a severe toothache, unfortunately lands
up in the hands of a quack who pushes him to the height of agony.

The third story is of a girl who is very honest and pure and as well as naive. She doesn’t
know the ways of the world and trusts too much her mistress who is exploiting her in
return. But, in the end, there is a beautiful twist which establishes that purity is still a
virtue worth preserving.

In the fourth sketch, a crafty seducer goes to work on a wedded woman, only to realize
that the woman has been in command from the ﬁrst overture.
The ﬁfth is a classic tale of a man who offers to drown himself for three roubles.

In the sixth sketch, a small town girl comes to Moscow to appear in an interview of a job
which she needs desperately. As the interview progresses we come to realize the sufferings
and miseries she is going through in her life.

In the seventh sketch a harridan storms a bank andjupbraids the manager for his gout
and lack of money.
In the eighth, and the last, a father takes his son to a house where he will be initiated

into the mysteries of sex, only to relent at the last moment and decides to buy an umbrella
instead, as a birthday present to his son.

About Shri Ram Centre
Shri Ram Centre has been in existence for about 25 years and is one of the leading
cultural organisations, its objective being to nurture and develop talent in the performing
arts and other related activities. The Centre is located in an architecturally beautiful
building and has modern airconditioned auditorium, with a seating capacity of about
600. There is also a fully equipped Basement Theatre ideally suited for experimental and
intimate plays, with the objective of promoting amateur theatre. In 1980 the Centre

started a full time Theatre Repertory. Its aim was to produce meaningful plays by well
known playwrights which are directed by Directors of national and international repute
and create an involvement with theatre lovers. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, our
Repertory undertakes trips to other parts of the country. SRC Sutradhar Puppet Theatre
had achieved great success and popularity with its unique and skilled performances. It
was the ﬁrst professional Puppet Repertory in India.
. Shri Ram Centre organises periodic workshops covering some major aspects of theatre;
these include workshops and lecture demonstrations by visiting theatre personalities. A
playwright Workshop to encourage upcoming playwrights and introduce them and their
scripts to the eminent theatre personalities is held annually. Each year a nine month Acting
Course is held and its aim is to give participants training in different aspects of theatre.

Annual ‘Shri Ram Memorial Lectures’ on any subject allied with theatre are delivered by
eminent persons from the ﬁeld of arts. Centre maintains a library of about 900 books on
theatre and performing arts. A Script Bank Service which makes available at nominal

price new unpublished scripts is also maintained. Many other periodic and annual
activities like Diwali Mela, Music Circle & Drama Festivals are also organised.
—

