Director's Note
Naga- Mandala was a play that l directed in 1989. To revisit the same play in 2005, was a difficult decision. How do I wipe
the slate clean, rid myself of the baggage of the previous production? The task becomes even more onerous, when part of
the cast is the same, along with the music. ' When I saw the old recording of the play, I was aghast at the over the top
imagery, the melodramatic acting, the decorative use of music. I could not believe that this was a play, which when first
performed fifteen years ago had won me a certain degree of accolades.
Before । thought of doing the play, I wanted to know if the text still spoke to me, or engaged my passion. It was wonderful to
realise that even after so many years, the play had a freshness and relevance that I could connect with. So great was my
excitement that l could feel images chase one another. Normally one has to read a play several times before it becomes
visible. in most plays there is never a congruence between the play as read and the play when performed, but this play
unpeeled for me new areas of eXpression that I had skipped in my earlier production. .
Yet । was assailed by many questions. How was I going to resolve the indefinite tension between the real characters and
the othenNorldly characters? How to create the transformation of the husband into the snake? How to underscore the
philosophical and conceptually resonance that is inherent in the story? What sort of acting protocol do I use in the absence
of any distinct and specific vocabulary for the play?How do । resolve the contradictions of a play that is set in reality, but at
the same time eschews reality?
Revisiting a play also meant that I had to consciously avoid using any image, expression or movement that I had used
earlier. I was playing out my own duality, afraid of repeating myself, shredding the previous production in an attempt to
reinvent the playfor myself.
‘
I approached the play with playfulness. Making the actors do improvisation from the play but without the text. Nudging
them into taking risk, sloughing of fixed approaches, pushing them towards developing their own personal vocabulary.
Certain extraordinary things happened during rehearsals, which । have tried to hold on to, with the hope that the
spontaneous recklessness does not get lost in a structured performance.

About The Group
My: group The Company which has been working together for the last twenty years, is a mix of rural actors and
urban performers. It was established in 1983 in Chandigarh. It has been creating a theatre vocabulary that fuses
source material with a performance style grounded in Punjabi aesthetics. The Company also counts among it
performers a group of Naqqals( female impersonators) who have a long tradition as performers. Traditionally the
Naqqal performance is designed for pleasure as well as profit. Its is a form without any firm or continuous tradition
and the Naqqals have become master adapters. They include in their repertoire urban issues, along with stories
of Gods and Goddesses, legendary heroes, tales of bhakti and rnlracles that were enacted in an idiomatic speech.
When I first started working with them, I tried to cull from their work a rich and intricate pattern of music, song and

narrative, along with modes of dramatic rendering that added to my understanding of the region and its sensibility.
These regional impulses acquired a deeper meaning in the context of the ’crisis of language and culture that

Punjab was going through in the eighties
The collaboration between the urban actors and the Naqqals has lead to many productions. Adaptation of
Yerrna by Federico Garcia Lorca. The Mad Woman of Chaillot by Jean Giraudoux, Pheadra by Jean Racine,
Kitchen Katha, Sibo In Supermarket, An Unposted Love Letter Naga Mandala by Girish Karnad to name a few.
The Group has participated in Major National and ।nternational Festivals. Some of the International Festivals in
which the group has performed- ' The London International Festival of Theatre ( 1 993, 1995, 1997) The Festival'd
Avignon ( 1995) The Festival of Perth (1999,2000) The Singapore Arts Festival (2002) The Laokoon Festival in

Hamburg ( 2003) The Japan Festival of the Arts( 2003) and The Zanani Festival in Lahore (2004-2005- 2006) .
All the plays produced by the Company have been translated by the eminent poet Surjit Patar, with music
composed by BV Karanth.
.

The Company, #9, Sector 4, Chandigarh Tel : 2740485 email : neelammansingh@yahoo.com

