‘SO : THAT'S THEATRE FOR BRECHT

Brecht, an undisputed master, was highly concerned with the
theatricality of drama. He would not publish his plays before they
had gone through the test and revisions of stage productions which
he himself supervised. Though he frequently borrowed plots and

dialogues of other writers (e.g. The Three Penny Opera), he was
undoubtedly original.
His cavalier attitude towards
concept of the function of theatre.
believed in the didactic purpose
succeed as much as Shaw, his
broadly comic and perform the

plot originality came from his
More than Bernard Shaw, Brecht
or drama. Though he did not
plots are of rich variety, satiric,
primary purpose of drama - to

entertain.

He started, what he called ‘The Epic Theatre’. it was meant
to diminish and if possible to do away with traditional theatrical
effects. He attempted to destroy any illusion that would induce
identification with character and produce Aristotelean effects of '
catharsis, pity and fear. For this he ernployes devices like movie
projections, masks, flat characterization, small episodes, narra~
tions, chants etc. Brecht did not succeed in creating the emotional
distance he strove for, but his art does present a new, meaningful
and deeply moving insight into reality.
Brecht encouraged objective thinking about the character. He
says, “an actor has merely to show the character, or better, not
merely to experience it; but this does not mean that when he has to

act passionate people, he must himself remain cold.

It is only that

his feeling should not be fundamentally the same as those ofhis cha-

racter, so that the feelings of his audiance do not become fundamentally those of his character”. Brecht also prescribes an attitude
for the spectator saying, “complex seeing must be practised .........
thinking above flow of the play is more important than thinking from

within the flow of the play.
Everything in Brechtian production was aspired for pure theatri-

cal effect both in process and in ﬁnish.

He said, ‘ ‘Today we see

