555म्भऊंऊंऊंहार्कर्कम्भऊंकंऊंऊंऊंर्कऊंऊंर्कर्कऊंर्कऊंऊंल्हेकै
The group is striving to achieve the excellence through a purposeful, meaningful and socially relevent
theatre. The group is all set to become international as there are persistant demands from students
from all over the world to join- the training programme at Kalakshetra. We are waiting to get a suitable
complex of our own and necessary finances. The group is all geared up to face the challenges and
demands of the theatre of tomorrow.

FUTURE PROJECTS
INTER CULTURAL PERFORMANCE
To encourage inter-action between creative artistes from different regions with diverse backgrounds
a project has been started. Artistes from Manipur, Bengal and 'I‘amilnadu will participate in this project
to ﬁnd out common factors in their diverse methodology and create a performance which will not be
just an assemblage of artistes from various regions but an integrated performance to weave an
attractive fabric.

ACTORS TRAINING AND RESEARCH
To consolidate the work done on the actors’ training methodology and to impart training to theatre
enthusiasts and also to tie up the loose ends in the training programme a series of workshops, lecture
demonstrations etc. will be held at various places.

THEY SAID IT . . . .
“In the theatre of Kalakshetra Manipur directed by Sri. H. Kanhailal, we ﬁnd one of the most distilled
and poetically heightened performance traditions in the contemporary Indian theatre. Steeped into
the rninutia of Meitei rhythm, gestures, and movements, this theatre crystalises the most critical
realities of oppression and resistance in a predominantly non-verbal drarnaturgy. Through songs,
cries, lullabies, and evocation of dreams, it alerts its spectators to the resilience of the human spirit in
countering the dominant tensions of our time.

,
ces
man
for
per
of
ge
ran
de
wi
a
has
r
pu
ni
Ma
ra
het
aks
Kal
s,
tie
six
e
“Active in the theatre since the lat
workshops, and improvisations to its credit of which PEBET .and MEMOIRS OF AFRICA are, perhaps,
the most memorable. Structured like dramatic poems, these theatre pieces ( lasting barely 30- 45 mnts
) are models of the “poor theatre” idiomin which there are no sets, lights, or elaborate costumes to
impede the direct transmission of emotions between the actors and spectators. Intensely lyrical1n
their dream-like patterns of movement, the actors build their narrative through a fluid montage of

gestures that is capable of reaching audiences in vastly different social and cultural contexts.

“The vision of this theatre has been nurtured by the most gifted and creative director, Sri. H. Kanhailal,
who has evolved one of the most subtle training systems for the contemporary Indian actors. In this
regard, his chief collaborator has been his wife, Smt. Savitri, an actress of extraordinary power, whose
capacity to enter and transcend the most turbulent state of emotions is a rarity in the contemporary

theatre world. Rooted as she is in deeply indegenous modes of traditional and folk performances, she
has an ability to surrender to the most profound dimensions of a melodramatic experience where the
emotions are larger than life, yet real. Together, Kanhailal and Savitri form a “unified language in

YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY

