Besides Ram Gopal Bajaj, director of the National School
of Drama where Upreti had been on the faculty, former
director Kirti Jain, former Acting Chief ofNSD Repertory
IN. Kaushal as well as Anuradha Kapur, B. M. Shah, N. K.
Shanna, Arvind Gaur, Piyush Mishra and a sobbing Vinod
Nagpal .
The man they all talked about bravely maintained a
smiling countenance, frozen within the frame under the
peepal tree at the open air theatre. He had every reason to.
After all, he had drawn a full house.
INDIAN EXPRESS
1 0 June, 1 99 7

AN EXTRAORDINARY
SIMPLE SOUL
It is always a difficult task to write about a departed friend,
a gentleman and a legend. The exercise assumes somewhat
complicated dimensions when the friend happens to be
Mohan Upreti who passed away suddenly on June 6 without
much ado. Not only will his admirers now be deprived of
the benefit of his amazing creative skills and his vast and
critical understanding of the folk and tribal traditions of
India in general and Uttarakhand in particular, but his death
also takes away from us a most valuable link with the past.
The march to future now appears all the more uphill since
there is no one to explain to us the intricacies of the ancient
lores of Uttarakhand that date back to the Vedic era and
their eventual metamorphosis into a powerful instrument
of popular expression.
Indeed, there was much more to Mohan Upreti than
what was obvious to the public eye. To most of his fans he
was a brilliant exponent of folk forms of music and dance
and a first rate composer. But not many know that before
emerging on the cultural scene of the Capital and other
parts of the country he was baptised into the mysterious
world of Pahari folk culture the hardest way. For almost
30 years. Mohanji had to pass through fire, first trying to
gain acceptance with those who were the repository of the
ancient art forms and later, fighting the prejudices of his
own elitist clan which considered his hobnobbing with the
Dalits, who have kept alive folk traditions in Uttarakhand
over the ages. as a reprehensible act. Though Victory was
his ultimately, it came not without a price which Mohanji
had to pay in a strangely different manner.

Come 1962 in the wake of the Chinese aggression,
Mohan Upreti was arrested and externed from Almora. That
was another turning point in his life, since it brought him
to Delhi where his multi-faceted personality truly
blossomed. He made his mark everywhere as a composer,
teacher, director, folklorist, singer, writer and cultural
adviser. He served in various capacities programme director
of the Sriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, associate professor
of Music at the National School of Drama, visiting professor
at the Jamia Millia University and music director of the
Folk Dance Ensemble of the Government of India. Besides,
he provided music for many major musicals and dramatic
persentations mounted in Delhi during the last 30 years.
But Mohanji's landmark contribution lay in reviving
and establishing the lost glory of the musical and cultural
heritage of Uttrakhand. Indeed till then any presentation
of a cultural show either by Garhwalls or Kumaonis in the
Capital was marked by mediocrity and total lack of
professional competence or ﬁnesse. Mohanji and friends
set up the Parvatiya Kala Kendra with the speciﬁc aim of
acquainting audiences here with the brilliance. range and
melodies ofthe music ofthe Himalayan districts of Garhwal
and Kumaon. Beginning with Rajula Malushahi in 1981.
Mohanji never looked back. Within a short span Parvatiya
Kala Kendra become a reference point for original musical
scores and our indigenous operatic tradition. Over 15 years
till his death. PKK staged over a dozen operas. mostly
written by inimitable Brijendra Lal Shah. a childhood friend
of Mohanj i and an undisputed authority on the folk
traditions of Uttarakhand.

Mohanji was convinced that there is a strong link
between the folk melodies-especially of Uttarakhand-and
Indian classical music. I want to build up a bank of these
melodies so as to enable future generations to draw upon
them towards a better understanding of the common
umbilical chord of the music ofthe entire Himalayan range.
he used to say. But more than that it was his mission to
create a team of talented Uttarakhand artistes who would
carry his mission forward and he did succeed to a
considerable extent. His boys and girls visited a number of
foreign countries and won laurels everywhere. The
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was recognised by the Government
as a national repertory and bestowed with the title of an
Eminent Theatre Group.
And yet Mohanj i remained a simple, ordinary person
rooted ﬁrmly to the earth-not due to compulsion but by

