0f mohan upreti
Even at this distance of New York, sitting in an
apartment of Broadway, right opposite the Lincoln Centre,
where I am an intern for a brief period, I cannot forget the
great Mohan Upreti. I call (long distance) my ﬁrst city, to
get this (bad) news-that a father-ﬁgure, Mohan Upreti, has
passed away. He was a great man.
What makes great - anything? It is a sense of integrity,
an iota of impeccable artistic credentials and a human being
far above any other. Mohan Upreti represented all this and
more .
He was a father ﬁgure, largely uncelebrated, of the
theatre, music and dance world, in that order. Born on July
6, 1928 (hence this prioritisation over all else from New
York, where much else happens all the time), Mohan Upreti
was destined for a national role, even if he came from a
humble Kumaon stock.
Why humble? (The word humble has been used,
misused and abused because of that Kannada character,
remember Deve Gowda?)

maker, 1 would go to a factory, not come to serve a cultural

institution." Sumitra C. believed him at face value and since
then started a long association of mutual give and take.

His association with the Kendra beneﬁted mutully.
The SBKK needed his artistic input and he, a stable base.
He helped the Kendra mount the Shankarlal Festival, the
Holi Mela, the Kamani Auditorium, the Basant Panchami
celebrations and many a memorable event.
The National School of Drama (NSD) requisitioned
his expertise in folk and operatic traditions and thus began
a long creative association resulting in over 50 full length
productions. His association with the NSD spanned some
3 0 years or more.
In 1968, he formed the Parvatiya Kala Kendra (the
Centre for Mountain Culture, loosely translated) and
focussed his energies on the collective talents of immigrants
from Garhwal who settled in Delhi. To date the group has
done several productions on the tales and myths, lores and
legends of the region.

Because, Kumaon, for long, was that neglected belt
from which, despite the Pant, Pandit and Pandey
connection, little else sprouted. Until Mohan Upreti
happened.

In his passing away last month, the world of theatre,
opera, music and dance has truly lost a star. For Moha'n
Upreti was extremely modest, low-key and understated.

Mohan Upreti happened, as do many historical
ﬁgures. He learnt classical music under Pandit C.S. Pant
and Pandit V.S. Thakur. At the Allahabad University, he
underwent advanced training in music and founded the Lok
Kalakar Sangh in Almora. He got deeply immersed in the
folk traditions of the region and created several dancedramas, theatrical productions and mimes. His artistic
pursuits brought him to Delhi several times and he served
the Jamia Millia Islamia as a Professor of Music in 199192.

quietly and instilled a lot of camaraderie in others. His
Parvatiya Kala Kendra consists of ordinary folks who have
blossomed into substantial talents. He gave the Garhwalls
and other assorted folks settled in Delhi, a sense of purpose
and a cause for celebration. In his demise, they work and

It was his coming to Delhi, the first city, that
established him nationally. He ﬁrst served the Shriram
Bharatiya Kala Kendra way back in 1964, when he joined
it as a program ofﬁcer. His joining the Kendra is a piece of
history in itself, for when he came to be interviewed at the

Mata Sundari Lane address of the SBKK, he was asked by
Sumitra Charatram if he, as a communist, would not
create problems. To which he replied: "If was a trouble-

He was an intellectual artist who kept to himself, worked

fortunately in his talented wife, Naima Devi there is a base,

a rallying point as it were. His equally prodigious brother,
Bhagwat Upreti is the musical soul of most productions
and with likeminded, kindred spirits Mohan Upreti's
name
can live on.
Ashish Khokar
FIRST CITY

July, 1997

