Remembering Mohan:

Journey's End And The Beginning
of
A New Journey
Professor P.C. Joshi

known him as a dance partner in the very ﬁrst performance
of the now well-renowned, Beru Pako Barah Masha, on

the national stage in honour of visiting Chinese dignitaries
during the early ﬁfties at Delhi. Ruby had composed the
dance and Mohan the music for this major cultural item
for the momentous occasion and it had elicited warm and
prolonged applause from the audience including the visiting
dignitaries and, more importantly, from Jawaharlal Nehru
himself who came to the stage to personally compliment
Mohan and Ruby. The item was such a grand success that
a life size picture of Mohan and Ruby appeared in the cover
page of Dharm Yug. That issue of the magazine was to be
found in several Pahadi homes.

"Sach hai ghan tam me khojate
shrot sunhale din ke
Par prachi sejharne wali
asha ka to ant nahi"
-Chandra Kunwar Bartwal

More than three months have elapsed since Mohan
breathed his last on the evening of sixth June. His passing
away so suddenly and unexpectedly was an inreparable
loss- to his bgibvﬁed wife, to his frail, and ailing old mother,

to his large andल्पिग़न्दु family, to his colleagues, co--workers
and friends and to the world of art and culture. For the
people of Uttarakhand his passing away has created a void
which seems unbridgeable. To them he had come to
symbolise their quest for a cultural renewal. The National
School of Drama has lost a valued colleague, a teacher of
great integrity and ability and a creative music composer
for the theatre. They are all still benumbed by their sorrow
and trying hard to come to terms with their loss.
There is Ruby, my wife, who had before our marriage

Remembering him are also his childhood friends and
I who had seen him grow from our favourite playmate into
an artist of national stature, But for us he was always the
same Mohan an intimate and understanding friend, for

almost six decades. I was in the habit of ringing him up
every now and then and we shared with each other new
ideas, new experiences, new projects and also our innermost
thoughts and "secrets". We worked together as colleagues
in the student movement in the late forties and early ﬁfties
and a close afﬁnity had developed between us as both of
us had turned to radical thought and politics. We had much
to share in terms of common ideals and common worldview and also in terms of the tension between borrowed

concepts and Indian realities. We were also brought much
nearer to each other as both of us had rebelled against
convention in our personal lives and had to confront

sometimes silent and sometimes elequent disapproval, and
also at times rejection, by the environment to which we
belonged. Most important, we were both tortured souls tortured by the conflict between our political commitment
and our artistic and scientiﬁc commitment between our

natural inclination and our loyalty to ideology and the party

