A Manifesto
ROLE OF MUSIC COMPOSER IN INDIAN THEATRE
-MOHAN UPRETI

Indian theatre today is standing on the threshhold
of a renaissance. It is struggling very hard to ﬁnd its
own feet in relation to, and as part of, the overall
transformation of the country's socio-economic, and
cultural structure. This process, begun in recent times,
is manifesting itself in several forms, such as, more and

pervading this universe or the total human experience,

more use of music in theatrical presentations, greater
emphasis on movement, mime and gestures, as compared
to the spoken word, elimination of realistic setting and

resulted in ernasculating the one or the other, damaging

props, use of rhythmic prose in dialogues, staging of
plays in open air, theatrical adaptation of folk forms with

which ﬁnds its artistic expression in various forms such

as music, dance, poetry, painting, sculpture, and
architecture. Indian aesthetics cannot separate the one
from the other if it wants to preserve the basic unity of
the arts. Whenever such a step has been taken it has
both in the end. Since theatre is the only place where
this unity can be best preserved, the role of theatre in
enriching the organic unity of Indian aits and their future
growth cannot be minimised.

conternerary theme, and so on.

All this reflects the urge of contemporary
playwrights and directors to bring Indian theatre back
into the main stream of Indian culture, with a new

consciusness of relying on an organic approach, seeing
and judging seemingly contradictory situations in their
interdependence and interrelationship, rather than dealing
with one particular situation in complete isolation from
the other. This new awareness naturally leads to a

situation where a playwright or a director is invariably
called upon to ﬁnd such composers of music as would
join hands with him to appropriately rernould the
contemporary theatre in accordance with the demands
put on it by this new awareness. In fact, this changed
outlook is a concrete manifestation ofthe organic nature

of Indian arts, which has been their distinguishing trait,
since times imrnernorial. It is difﬁcult to imagine a

genuinely Indian theatrical performance without music,
gestures, mime and movement.

Indian arts, including the performing ones, have
been miles away from realism or naturalisrn, in all their
manifestations, and it is not very difﬁcult to ﬁnd the

basis, the root cause ofthis phenomenon. All signiﬁcant
Indian philosophical systems, whether materialistic or

idealistic, the repositories of Indian thought tend to be
monistic in character. They never look at man in isolation
from the universe in which he lives, or the cosmos which

he is part of. Individual self is important, but only to the
extent is forms parts of a larger non-self. This non-self
can either be conceived as the total consciousness

Given the above premise, composers of music
assume a vital role. They must cease to ﬁmction as mere
supporters in theatre, but should get themselves enhanced
to the position of independent architects of a new
discipline, The changing needs of Indian theatre demand

from the playrights and directors a new vision which
treats music, not simply as a decorative piece, not as an

auxilliary only, but as something integral to theatre,
playing a positive role in developing the theme of the
play, as positive as other elements of production, for
instance stage—lighting. Without such an understanding,
use of the music composers for theatrical performances
will either be decorative or just 'loud' for its own for
sake resulting in all kinds of deformities and

vulgarisations. The new wave is welcome, but at the same
time one has to be on only own's guard. How and to
what extent should music be used? Could a grammer for
stage music be evolved? This is a new challenge which

faces Indian playrights, directors and music composers
today.

In folk theatre this integration was done beautifully.
But to maintain aesthetic balance in a modern theatrical
production is not so easy. It is not simply the use ofrnusic
and dance which makes any folk form powerful, it is the
total ﬁrsion of form and content that keeps it going. Mere

borrowing of these elements from it would not enrich
modern theatre. On the contrary this practice will reduce
the contemporary theatre into a cheep imitation of our
folk and traditional theatre.

