ABOUT OURSELVES
.
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was registered as a society
1n 1 968 with a view to promote the folks forms of
Uttarakhand connected with the rituals, ceremonies,
dances and songs, legends, ballads, tales, as also the
traditional Ramlila in order to enhance and enrich opera

theatre. The Kendra began slowly by adapting the folk
dances and songs of this region to the requirements of
contemporary stage, resulting in various choreographic
compositions, which were staged on different occasion

in Delhi and other cities ofthe country, as well as abroad.
FOLK DANCES & FOLK MUSIC
The songs and dance ensemble was the ﬁrst phase

of artistic growth of Kendra extending from 1968 to
1980. Programmes of about two hours duration were

presented which projected the complete cultural milieu
of the region. The Kendra was cautious from the
beginning to choose such a path that would help it to

avoid the pitfall of the so called pure presentations in
the name of authenticity - which could only be crude
copy of the originals forms, or the other pitfall of an
individualistically oriented abstract choregraphy that
would have gone beyond the matrix of prevalent folk
forms. This approach helped the Kendra to preserve the
vitality ofthe folk forms as also helped it to make them
stage-worthy. This was also necessitated by the fact that
of a
the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural needs

fast growing population of Uttrakhand dwelling in vast
a
metropolis like Delhi and what is more important, to
In
new generation seeking its roots in its ethnic culture.
Lok
by
started
work
the
of
a way this was an extension
ﬁfties.
Kalakar Sangh in Almora, wayback in the

constituted the strongest and the richest source. Being

the unwritten records of the life of the people, as lived
by them for centuries in the lap of the Himalayas, they
seemed to offer a very strong potential for any artistic

venture. The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second
phase by adapting the folk ballads of Kumaon and
Garhwal to contemporary stage. Raj ula-Malushahi
(1981) was the ﬁrst remarkable attempt of its kind. It

was remarkable in the sense that for the ﬁrst time a
production ofthis dimension was mounted capturing the
essence of the cultural heritage of the people of
Uttrakhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that

stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod Nagpal and V.M
Badola performed in the production alongwith many
fresh entrants to theatre, and another eminent theatre

personality, Shri B .M. Shah directed it. The script was
that of Shri Brijendra Lal and the musical score was that

of Shri Mohan Upreti. Since this event the KendIa did
not look back. It took up a new ballad ofthe region and

gave it a dramatic form. Ajua Bafaul (1982),
Mahabharata (1984), Rasik Ramola (1985), Jeetu
Bagdwal (1986), Hill-Jatra (1987), Bhana Gangnath
(1989), Haru Heat (1990), Rami (1992) were memorable

presentations. theatrical presentations. The other
Dimension ofthe second phare was tradional theatrical
prentations. The Kendra staged Ramlila of Uttrakhand
(198 1-85) which happenes to be a unique theatrical form
in as much as it synthesises Ramchritmanas ofTulsi with
Hindustani, Awadhi and Brij song-compositions by local
poets of Kumaon . The entire Ramlila, sung by the actors
themselves, has compositions based on folk music, semi-

E
BALLADS AND TRADITIONAL THEATR
of such
arity
popul
and
y
Notwithstanding the utilit
and
songs
ensemle work, wherein were presented folk

classical music. Amazingly, this corpus is staged in
eleven consecutive nights. Either some of the episodes
of this Ramlila or its abridged version, were presented
not only in Delhi, Bhopal and Ayodhya but also in China,

to build an dances, the Kendra developed a strong urge

North Korea and Bangkok. On the insistence of the

the entire
indigenous theatre, which could encompass
on and
Kuma
of
le
peop
gamut of the life of the hill

organisers of Calcutta Theatre Festival ofNandikar, the
complete abridged version was staged. The other attempt
in Hindustani mixed with Garhwali was the presentation
of Mahabharata in Pandav Jagar style of Garhwal.
Not is this all. The Kendra ventured into another
experimentation - that of presenting folk ballads of

r life. A theatre
Garhwal and their aspiration for a bette

deepen their
Which could reﬂect their problems, as also
aware
aesthetic sensibility and awareness, making them
a
Such
e.
futur
their
of their past, their present, and
ents
segm
us
vario
theatre, could only emerge out ofthe
h the ballads
of the folklOrs of that region, of whic

central Himalayan region ‘ Ham-Heet‘ (1990), Lok Devta

