The Facts 6' Opinions
EVERY THEATRE LOVER OF THE REGION SHOULD BE PROUD OF
——In 1953 when people in Chandigarh were living practically in huts, Mr. Dilgir
felt the need of introducing cultural activmes In the then dull and dreary
atmosphere of the town . ”
—Giani Gurmukh Singh Musafir (Sap ru House, New Delhi), March 20, 7.972.
—KALA DARPAN is playing an important role in ' the cultural life of the city.
Without Kala Darpan the city Beautiful would be a City Without soul.
——Sh. Dharma Vira, /. 'C. S. former Governor of Punjab

—Mr. Dilgir started serving the cause of Theatre in Chandigarh almost from the
same day when the city started coming up.
~-—Sh. T.N. Chaturvedi /.A.S. Former Chief Commissioner of Chandigarh,
December 7. 7976.
—This institution is doing a yeoman's service in the cause of preservation of our
culture and the propagation of arts...
—D_r. D. C. Pavate, a former Governor of Punjab

—KALA DARPAN stands at the top of those institutions which propagate the
culture of Punjab through performing arts.

—7he Daily Navbharat Times, New Delhi.
——We are fortunate in having men like Dr. Randhawa and Mr. Dilgir in the State
who have been working selflessly for the promotion of arts.
—L ate 8. Gurnarn Singh, a former Chief Minister of Punjab.
—Mr. H. S. Dilgir is a versatile genius. He not only has made name in art and
culture but also in journalism. Whatever he earns, it goes to his credit to spend
all his earning in development of art and culture.

— Mr. M. M. Choudhury, former Governor of Punjab
——Mr. Sushil Kurnar Shinde Maharashtra’s Minister of State for Social

Cultural Affairs.

Welfare and

Lauded efforts of Prof. Dilgir .... ..to promote and propagate the

true culture of Punjab through performing Arts.

—The Times of India, Bombay, January 5, 7977

—An absorbing three hour variety entertainment programme .... ..gave the
Ravindralaya audience a faithful peep into the culture and tradition of Punjab
programme was first of its kind in Lucknow.
~— The Daily National Hera/d, Lucknow

——l congratulate the organisers and the members of Kala Darpan, Chandigarh for
taking a commendable step for promotion of classical music.

~Dr. B. N. Chakravarty, a former Governor of Haryana.

—All the Punjabis are proud of the work being done by Kala Darpan and its
talented artists to revieve and propagate centuries old culture of Punjab.
~S. Meharban Sing/7 Dhupia, Secretary General, international Punjabi Society.
—Second time when I was impressed by the, powerful force of art was when Mr.
Dilgir presented a programme at the Punjabi University. Patiala.
‘8. Kirpa/ Sing/7 Nara/7g, a former Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University.

