KALA

DARPAN

C H A N D | G AR H '3 Cultural Moorings

by

S. S. 8 HAT Tl

Chandigarh's cultural life struck roots in the pioneering work of
Kala Darpan. Founded by Mr. H. S. Dilgir in February 1953, when
Chandigarhians were virtually living in huts, Kala Darpan has not only
persevered through many ordeals but also developed into an
indispensable cultural instrument of City Beautiful ’3 finer life and its
artistic aspirations. Indeed, it bespeaks highly of the poetic vision of
Mr. Dilgir to have thought it opportune to establish this unique
school of performing arts in Chandigarh with a view to giving to the
Punjabis what they had lost with the losing of Lahore, the cultural
prototype of Chandigarh, in undivided Punjab.
At first I would like to say something about Mr. H. S. Dilgir, the
founder-Director of Kala Darpan. Both as a person and an artist,
Mr. Dilgir is a class by himself. He has been serving the cause of
Punjabi art, culture and literature for more than thirty years in the
manner of an uncommon man who combines in him vision with
tenacity and seriousness of purpose; treading his path quietly but
surely; without expecting or extracting material gains and without
any affiliations or influence of any political party. Fired with “a
turbulent commitment to the act of living" he has brought people
closer to one another through the powerful instruments of his pen
and platform.

Himself a poet, a playwright, and a storywriter of remarkable
sensibility, Dilgir has always succeeded in locating and encouraging
talent in others. Harindra nath Chattopadhya, the world renowned
poet, said: "I have read with great interest and scrupulous care your
book "Scattered Thoughts" in which I find beautiful thought some—
times resembling that of Khalil Gibran and of course the thought
which derives its inspiration from your own Punjabi tradition so rich,
so warm". in his foreword of this book of poems, Richard Neff, the
staff writer of Christian Science Monitor, wrote, "To read this book
is to live a little more."

