—--—i

'

‘

कुब्जा. L L. नु. c
DIRECTOR'S NOTE

The pain of broken commitments, of polished ambitions, of smooth surfaces refusing to
accept a mellow wrinkle. The wrinkle of age and wisdom, the lines and furrows of stories, the
histories of joy and suffering, of spirits entrapped in forms of suffocation compelled to go through
a mindless world of personal gratification, teaching people, young people whose hearts have
forsaken love and idealism for life, for their own friends... Bombay being the overall Mantra, the

repetition of which reproduces a saccharine sweet image of the world... an exquisite cosmetic lie.
How to deal with all that is happening in this country - the complexity of the manipulation
and manoeuvering by politicians and intellectuals. We had wanted to address ourselves to coloni-

alism and its echoes in our present world, an exploration of which, perhaps, began with 'Raj
Darpan'. The shape, which emerged is one of encounters - our encounter with the many worlds,
the myriad layers encasing our souls — the world of the market, of profit and consumerism, the

media replacing the sense of our 'self'. The losing of one's 'self', the erosion of values, the conflict of identity, of thrusting and labelling of identity into convenient shelves. Where is the alternate vision — of Our approach to governance, Our vision of culture and education?

We have worked as usual through an intense process of improvisation, a deep questioning
of ourselves. We invited specialists from different fields to addess us and help us formulate our
perceptions of the world we live in. The world which emerged from our souls seemed to have
echoes of loneliness, of lack of time, of a break-down of solidarity and commitment, of material-

ism burying our true 'self', of the onslaught of media capturing our psyches, feeding us sentimental falsehoods or violent cliches. But more important, what also emerged was an abundance of
vitality and verve, a joyousness and an ability to accommodate, assimilate and adjust and go on to
create within ouselves alternate spaces.

The work we bring to you, though basically structured by me, was evolved and carried
forward by our actors from different parts of India who added the experience of their own regions

to enrich us. Shri Girdhar Rathi rendered the work into Hindi and also helped us in the writing of
imparting
some scenes. Navtej, in his wonderful gentle way, prepared the ground for the actors by
Yoga as I believe
training in Yoga. This time exercises and training methods were largely based on
in the process
helped
also
Ansari
Rashid
it produces a vibrant, alert and a relaxed and open actor.

His
by giving training on energising the actors. Arnar Kanwar has done the video projections.
the wonderful team of actors,
presence and humour was wonderful. Lastly, I am deeply grateful to
their dedication, talent and spirit.

criticism, suggestions and
Since this process is an ongoing one, we w0uld be grateful for
us or get in touch With us through the
additions to our text. You are welcome to ring us up, meet

post.
—— Anam/ka Haksar

