Gurgaonwallahs are so proud of Gurgaon auotenoo riiotivates ३ ।
mobecauso somebody from all .kinds‘oi acts: Vibha Chibber
their city is a regular I aoe on TV is

i

Bogus"-Paeamuesgeoeamg;

bhimanyu Ray. the casting directorof Chak De’ India. sought helplimit VibhaChibber;a theatre artiste
and alumna of National
chool of Drama. to pick the ensemhle cast But Ray couldn't ﬁnd
anyone better than Vibha for the role
अक्रवा१बथ was ata
of assistant coach Krishnaii; Since
then, Vihha has featured in many
stone's um. I liked
ﬁlms. But, with meaty roles in seri-

‘In men.

ms. “The news ofan alumnaof NSD take
ingciasses in
‘
'cklyand
Imtiaz Ali asked me to teach Hindi to
Giselle. We had to start itomkn, kha, ga.
Since they had not grown up in India.
these actresses knew next to nothing in
Hindi. Butthey have improvedsomuch.
I met Nargis few daysback and she no
longer had aforeign accent whilespeak
ing in Hindi," she tells us.

-CONTINUED FROM PAGE I

दृ

५

'IIIEA‘IRE श्या IN आत्मा
3श्या OF A SUPPDIIIIVE
ANDIEIGE
Vibha. who usedto stayin Rani Garden
and studied in Kamala Nehru College.
went on to stuck! in NSD, where shemet
Deepak Chibber; her batehmate whoshe
went on to marry, and shiftedto Gurgaon in I95. Sheझाड़. “As NSDsurdents,
we used to come to Gurgaon to stage
plays Infact, Deepak wasone of those
who hdped theatre ﬁnda footingin the
city. 1 alwaysfelt things in Delhi were
spread out. whereas in Gurgaon.everything was at a stone's throw. I liked its

TV AND FILM DEBUT BEA"5 E
OF SON

inalways tell things in Delhi
were spread out, whereas in
Gurgaon, everything was at a
stone's throw. I liked its open
in Gurgaonowes alot to theaudience there "'
wide
roads and less trafﬁc.
While a certain section ofDelhi's theatre :
audience would be critical of the produo
Aﬂer shifting to Gurgaon, I
tions. audiences in Gurgaon motivated all
never
missed Delhi है
dsof acts," she
. and adds,

श्याto create aproduction. Buttheatre

are soproud of me be musesomebody from their city is aregu— Gate orOld Fortand do boating. I don't like
lar faceon TV"
_
pens be
121111111 SIIWIS A'l’ MANDI IIDIISE

AND FILM WNBS AT 7

dents. Eventoday I oﬁenhead to Bengali

Vibha muld look forward to every oppor- Marketmightfrom the airporttohave my
tunity to catch a cultural programme. "I favouritechholebhaaae," shesays.
SinceVibha also ownsa home In Noida
wentto diﬂ‘erent states as a collegestudent
and spent a few years there. she would ot‘~

ज्जा tenvisitAttaMarlmﬁir

ins "Mi/fam-

passesformany shows,including the ones ily would go toAda Market alien for shop
and would have street food at Sector'—
with foreign artistes, takingplace in Man- ping
श्या,she स्याउ.“I .. s .
mm",
di House.Thenthereis ShakuntalamTheatre Pagan Maldan thatwouldहै८२भाध1the workshopfor kidsin Noida.Whenever I am
bestof Indianand world moviesat an eoo in NOR.rriy time isdivided equallybetween
.Gurgaon and Not "
nominalprice. So. these were the क्याthat
halpedme grow apartfrom DU‘S theatre so GIVING Dlll'IIDN LESSONS 'ID
cietyculture and NSD‘straining.” she says. क्या NARGIS, FREIDA8: DIANA
In
Mumbai
too, Vibha started doing what
INDIA GATE.BBIGALI MKIADDAS
Vibhadidn't spend all her time acting.She‘d she does best— teaching theatre The likes
" hang outa lot with her friends.‘ ‘Mu/he श्या of GlselleMonteiro, Nargls li‘aldu‘l. F‘mida
, jaguh zyadapasand hain.l‘d go to India Pintoand DianaPenty have been her stude
३ . . .

Onbeing asked it itwas late forsomeone
who graduatedfrom NSD in 1985. to get
into ﬁlms and TV twodecast later; she
says. “Time ismy ﬁrstloveI was earningdecently in Delhiand hadall my fr'is.L
nds and relatives here. Thus, I never
thoughtof leaving thecity My son Puru,
alter completinghis 12th. wanted to go
to Mumbai to learn acting and jointhe
industry So,my husband and I decided
to go alongas wedidn‘t want Fur-u to be
alone in the bigcity It’s becauseof himthat
[joined the industry" she says, “I've been
into acting allmy me It’sonly alter youbeat)
me arewgnizahiefacethat people start asking where you were all theseyears."

W GAVE ME EVERYTHING l
Bl." WIIO DDESN'I' WANT'ID WIN A
FILMFAIIE AWARD?
Despite making herﬁlmdebut with amovie
like Chak De!India. Vibha never played a
character thatwould overshadow Krishnaii. She sws, “It hum at times But I had
joined'I'V soon after ChakDe हैं and people
thought,'how will shemanage if she isdoing TV?‘ I am an artiste I need to act irre
spectiveof the medium Obviously. ﬁlms
are
rthan’I'V, anle is higger‘than
theatm,and everybody wantsto wina ﬁlmfare Award. but the waymy characters in
various serialshavebeen appreciated. Iam
saﬂsﬂ
L I.
A v actors. "1"
no problems with the hecticschedule She
says. "I havegrown up doing day-long re
hearsals and later teaching kids. 1 havea
humongous amountof patience. Also. now
lye readiedastatue whereif Iask ﬁn‘leave,
mywishes are dulygranted. But ifthe same
amountof money is paid to me in theatre.
I will go backtidt. It's the one form I am
mostcomfortable iii."
— Pralyush.Panamlmesgroupmin

क्या ५ .

alslike क्याHammmm छि क्याश्या m
the ongoingPly; telleghvi-

and ES trafﬁc.

sion was the pla orm
m
t
her fame and money Working as a

W श्या h

teacher in Theatre in Education. a

Gilliam. I never

wing of the NSD. Vibha was in her
mm W ’
comfort zone. buthersonRon's
“k “M
..
व
५५०… LII:
ﬁlm andTV induszminted in her
alsostepping into the samearena. The Delhi girl. who
moved to Gurgacn aﬂer marriage and then to Norda.
tous about Gmgaon‘stheatre scenebacktheo. grv- '
ing diction lessonsto thelikes ofFreidaPinto and1131"' F‘akhri andﬁn ' श्या in TV despite making
her-ﬁlm debut with a Shah Rukh Khanstarrer:
I?)

comma)0N PAGE 3

