हाल ही में yam अपनी प्रथम प्रयाग फिल्म "एक था राजा" का निर्माण एबं निर्देशन किया । इन्होंने "विश्वविद्यालय अनुसंधान आयोग"

के विशेष प्रयागात्मक परियोजना थियटर लेब का पांच वर्ष तक निर्देशन भी जिया I जिसका उददेश्य अन्य परिपेक्षों के साथ थियेटर सम्बन्धों
पर खोज करना है ।

रिंट्रऱदृबर्ण के 'फादर' और "ज्यों पॉल सात्रं कं ‘मेन विदाउट शैडोज’ के अनुवाद के अलावा इन्होंने कापका के प्रसिद्ध उपन्यास 'द
ट्रायल' का हिन्दी रूषान्तरण 'जोजफ का मुकत्दमा' नाम रने तथा पीटर शेर के नाटक 'ऐक्चस' को 'ऐत्तश' नाम से जिया I
"डॉ (भाहंफ्ताइंन", "नाटक के वीच" और "राजा की रसोई" इनके, तीन मौलिक नाटक है ।
मोहन महर्षि रारुट्रीय नाट्रय विद्यालय सोसाइटी के भूतपूर्व उपाध्यक्ष रह चुके हैं और हाल ही में पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय चंडीगढ के सहायक

उप कुलपति पद से सेवानिवृत्त हुए है । वर्तमान में यह जवाहर लाल नेहरू विश्वविद्यालय के "शैक्षिक बोर्ड" के सदस्य है i
I f

'I

/

५

५५८, “f
५६५५-११
८

mohan maharishi \ j

DIRECTOR

प "’

Born in Ajrner, Rajasthan, in the year 1940, Mohan Maharishi began his career in drama with the All lndia Radio, Jaipur, in
the year 1955-56 as an amateur actor. He tool< active interest in college drarnatics and as Cultural secretary of his college
he participated in National Youth Festivals to win several prizes as an actor/director.

It was in the year 1962 that he decided to turn professional and joined the National School of Drama as a student. There
he came in contact with the most eminent teacher/director Mr. E.All<azi. He graduated lrom the National School
of Drama &
Asian Theatre Institute in the year 1965 with Girish Ghosh and Bharat Awards and was ollered a two year stint
in the National
School of Drama Repertory company.

Since 1967, Mohan Maharishi has held several important positions in the field of theatre. He worked in
many Indian universities
as a tree—lance teacher/director before tal<ing a job (Producer, Drama and Current Affairs) in Doordarshan, Delhi.

In 1973, the Government 01 lndia sent him to Mauritius as a Theatre Expert where he initiated a Yough Theatre
movement.

Mohan Maharishi was further retained as Cultural Advisor to the Prime Minister by the Government 01 Mauritius For a
period
01 three years.

He returned to lndia in 1979 to head the Department 01 Drama, Punjab University, Chandigarh, considering
his eminence in

