the field, he was directly taken in as professor.
In 1984, the NSD Society requested him to take over the Directorship oi the National School of Drama. He worked as director

of NSD till August 1986.
in his 30 years career as director, teacher, actor, designer and writer, Mohan Maharishi has created several important works, notable

amongst them are his productions of regional lndian playwrights like Adya Rangacharya, Badal Sarkar, Girish Karnad, Mohan Rakesh
and Dr. Dharamvir Bharati.
Jean-Paul Sartre's HMen without Shadows”, Anouilh's "Antigone", Bertold Brecht's "The Mother", George Bernard Shaw's l'Pygmalion",
Durenmatt's IIThe Visit", Moliere‘s "The miser”, and Kalka's ”The Trial" are some of his best known productions of Foreign playwrights
and writers.
Mohan Maharishi has toured extensively all over the world to see Theatre and participate in seminars and discussions as an lndian
delegate. He has personally met and had discussions with world renowned Theatre Figures like actress Helanea Weigel, directors like

Peter Brooke, Peter Stein, Karlos Khun, Eugino Barba, Satyajit Ray, Tadashi Suzuki and playwright Heiner Muller.
Mohan Maharishi created history of sorts by bringing to India an lndian play "Andhayug", with a Foreign cast, from abroad. He
repeated the teat in 1981 when he took a Punjabi play, "Rani Jindan", to the United States and Canada.

Mohan Maharishi got the Sangeet Natak Akaclemi award from his home state, Rajasthan in the year 1991. In 1992, he won
the prestigious National Award for his service to lndian theatre, an honour conferred on him by the President of India in February
1993. Recently, he produced and directed his First experimental film "Ek Tha Raja".
Mohan Maharishi directed a special 5 years long experimental project—Theatre Lab—For U .G .C . the objective of the project was
to explore Theatre relationship with other disciplines. ३ Mohan Maharishi wrote 'EINSTIENI in association with the physics deptt. oi
punjab University, Chandigarh.

Besides translating Strindberg's "The Father" and Jean‘ Paul Sartre's "Men without shadows", he has adapted Kalka's Famous novel IrThe
Trial" in Hindi, titled, "Joseph Ka Muqqaddama", Peter Shaller's play "Equus titled" "E'Tash" in Hindi and Vinod Shukla's novel
"Deewar rnein Ek Khidki Rahti ThiII in Hindi with the same title. He is the author of three original plays— "Dr. Einstein", "Natak
Ke Beech" a comedy and IIRaja Ki Rasoi". Mohan Maharishi is a Former Vice Chairman of the NSD Society and Pro Vice Chancellor

of Punjab University, Chandigarh. At present, he is a member of "Board of Studies" of Jawahar Lal Nehru University.

