about the play
1\f
\9
- रा
नु
.

I am constantly looking For material that could be used to mal<e Theatre.
‘This search has tal<en me in varied directions.

In early 90's l began to Feel uneasy with what one already had as
dramatic literature. Tal<ing a well made play, even a classic, and then
delving deep into it to look Ior great universal truths did not interest me
any more. It occurred to me that there is great deal of material outside
the existing body of dramatic literature which could maI<e a wonderful
new theatre and also not just the social sciences, but the pure sciences

too could be new exciting source material which would not only provide
our audiences new excitement but would also at the same time take the
subject 'Theatre' Forward.
As most theatre goers l<now this search lead me to write my first original

play EINSTEIN.
Since then I have hardly done any conventional theatre. A tiny little

Buddhist tale became the subject matter of RAJA KI RASOI and the
opening of the famous experimental Kanada play KELU JANMAJAYA,
inspired me into a wholly diIIerent direction. A minor theme from the
great Sriranga play was lifted and set in motion to get an utterly surprising
result in my third play NATAK KE BEECH.
After my disastrous, but creatively enriching, encounter with Hiener Muller

in I 98 5 Berlin, I had already started looking at other Forms of literature
Iil<e Fiction and poetry as possible theatre material.

Kaika's THE TRIAL, I 988 and Vinod Kumar Sliukla's DEEVAR MEIN
EK KHIDKI RAHTI THI, 2001 were well I<nown novels turned into
theatre. This is my third attempt to abstract some l<ind of a play From a

well l<nown novel — Anurag Mathur‘s - SCENES FROM AN

EXECUTIVES LIFE.
Breathtakingly

rapid

economic changes

has caught

us unaware.

The

implications oi this process are brutally eIIecting our relationships within
and outside our families and worl< spaces. Our consciousness is under
attacl< at a very Fundamental

level.

Again

there

is

nothing

in our

contemporary writing which let alone explain and express but even touches
this rather bewildering situation. Anurag Mathur's novel is an attempt to
Iool< at the phenomenon with a certain measure oi seriousness and sardonic
humor.

Thus ”Scenes From an Executive Lite" became the subject matter of a
brand new Hindi play SAMP SEEDHI, that attempts to unravel the

process through which lltechnology and the advertiser's logic”, combined
with the "urgent impulses oI the new economy", has eIIected a prolound
maI<eover OI our till recently Iamiliar world.
Recommended reading,- Srinivasan Jain's piece in THE WEEK (October

13, 2002) - LICENCED TO KILL.

—Moha n Maharishi

