PAGE 12, SEPTEMBER 10. 1046 SATURDAY
1३ '८३५' श्या all ७५५ ५५:1५ i" ll‘llllllk‘ t‘vlr-hmlron. when nrrr
,l
.rrrmrrers HI [tr Bhupen Hzi/arika
‘
1१.-1५111६11श Bhrrunrr. (‘yrrwuhrrtn well
-. \Lllk‘Kllllt'tl shirt [U be

. (110101113

ers, endeared themselves to the audiences with their dancing
skills in songs like AnImIr jrtdrjubo Inge Samighamlai. Mai La(Irr'h' leur‘srr. etc. They have proved that his creations will never

१ 1.1111111५11९ evening of mur

time to

v २४९५1 b_\ the prominent City-

‘mr rl socrnvrrr ' ii .rssrx’iatron Lurtparrri Sari५1१ rk kiosthr
५९ [Member 1. The colourful
tirnrtlnn. ऱ1.1९3 1 '11.१८ Mohot Hudhakanthak
Su\v aran in ' 1.1३1\' kick-started month-lung
\
.: and the rest or the crumI L’ s t। \ l i l L' ~
try. mark
thr birth nnnn ersiry ()l the
lt‘eendrrrx

"

:i\

, '

remember. . .

THE ASSAM TRIBUNE, GUWAHATl

memorial site, He also let everyone know that hehas allocated
_Rs ten lnkhs to setup apark in the name of Dr BhupenHazarika
in 'lczpur. Bosrdes, he has also raised the issue ofrenarning the
’I'ezpur Airport in
Bhupen
liazarika‘s namewrth the Unron Ministry.
Other guests, including
former cultural minister Pranati Phukan, noted singér
Surya Das, veteran director
Hernen Das talked about

mg on September 8,

m in l(\ ninth year. the Luitparrr‘r Sanskritrk Gusthi took

drum up a not. 1५ with the lllllSlCLll show. which has ccrtamly

lived up [u ilk expectations and interest it had generated
among aficionados rind ntirnrrers of Dr Hazarikzrt
.. programme was inaugurated
o_\ tlUlt‘tl actor 1 trlrp Kumar llazarrv Ganﬁk oeka
kzr. who lrt tht traditional lamp he»
tore the portrait or Dr Bhupon Hazarrkrr, The veteran actor.
:‘yhnse role as l’r_\'ah Barua in Dr Hazarika's landmark Assa—
mese movr Mrmmrm Dcmmr made him a household name in
tit and elsewhere, was mine effusive while smirking about
_ ~is association With Dr Hazarika. at the
jigrne time. regalmg the audience \vrth var:Ebus anecdotes from his chequered career,
Jjuring a stirring keynote speech.
३८३ The cultural evening then kickedoff with
::a stimulating tlhplii) of darn ८^ l1} ttrlr'nted
Eﬁewgenetauon dancer Rodali Bora to the
हुँहूशांटा evergreen tune by Dr Hazarika,

३ Ialrddlrmri hrmu moi. pralr‘ddlram' hunu.
' hrch was choreographed by Ranjit Gogoi
and Srtaranr Hazard-ta. Soon after. several
children and young dancers performed on
stage to a medley of Dr Hazarika'severlastmg compositions. Vivichaukiyou Dutta, Rupak Gogoi, Ankurjyotr Das. Nirman Das, PnyanshuKashyap. Bharyv, Sahil. Riki.
Vivek Das, Bandeep. Hiya Deka, chistha, Debangana. Indrakshi Barman, Ragini Hora, hilt-him Parashar. Niha, among oth-

cease to exist. Soon after,
the host of the evening,
journalist Prasharita Mena
stepped off the stage to
reach out to the audience.
while trying to elicit vari—
ous comments and views on Dr Hazarika and Luitparia San~
skritik Gosthir
RP Sam, the MP from Tesz said that he would request
the Chief Minister to speed up proceedings at the maestro's.

their association with the
legend and how it enriched
their lives. Fi1 rnma ker

Chandra Mudoi recalledthe j अं i दु S थ्व"

. ‘45 g.

Inge, Borrjui banatjale dekha ﬂown jai, etc, with the legend
There were many others too in the audience whose lives Dr
Hazarika mayhave touched at sortie point or the other.
It was now the turn of Dr Hazarika's youngest brotherand
prominent singer Samar Hazarikaand his son Dewar toperfarm on stage. After Dawar sang H11 lm dlmmuha ahileu, 53mar Hazarika presented the evergreen hit, Karo juwannr
mrilyrr hnl. Soon Daworjoined his father on stage in the song
Shilbngeré Monalr'sha Lyngdoh.
Dr Bhupen Hazarika‘s landmark score in the Hindi movie
Gajagamr'm' won mass audience and critical acclaim both in
India and abroad. Two ofits hits —Gajagrzmr'ni and
Men:payul bole rendered by Dr Hazarika in duet
with Kavita Krishnamurthy came alive on stage
with an engaging group dance performance cl10<
reographed by Akashjyoti. featuring dancers Rodali. Snigdha. Harsha, Danisha. Prachi, Pragya and
Geetu. It was now the turn of well-known violin.
ists — Manoj Barua and Pumbi Sarinato mesmerise the packed crowd with their lucid interpretations of three of Dr Hazarika's songs.
The evening became all the more entertaining when dancers Harsha, Danisha and Rodali
danced along Dr Hazarika's Bisn'ma [Jame and
its Hindi version. Conga behh' hai kymr. inspired
by Paul Robeson's 01'man ripen The next item.
an experimental onechoreographedby Akashjyo—
u' Sarina. saw a medleyof Dr Hazarika‘s four pop
ular songs from ﬁlms, performed bydancers De—
barigana Bhargav, Paran Kamal, Snigdha, Bishal
Gogoi, Marlisha Mahendm, Rituraj Chakravorty.
Kirti Kama] and Barnali Basumatary. to an ap—
preciative audience.
The evening's last item,a musical performance
'by the band Bound Morphanes, featured rendi:
tions by Prandip Das on songs likeAﬁlarbwann

time when Dr Hazarika re_
corded a song for his ﬁlm/491(11th at Kolkata. Noted singer lilzhake Iikhisx'! andth'ddhani Iumu moi.
The chief organisers. Rosy Bora and Jitumoni Bora. and
Anju Devi, whohad recorded songs with Dr Hazarika forpop—
ular ﬁlmslike Bimini, Bauhansa, Angilmr. etc, recalledthose other members of the Luitparia Sanskritik Gosthi desave
h a show. held
timeswhen she rendered memorable songs like Nijakedekhi V big praise and appreciation for organisingsuc
afikalx' beleg bhab jage. dapmr hhonr'r Marjmu'k sapaon sapvon every year in honour of the legendary artiste.
जिब
, “lama?” mm ७९१
t Mrb‘
,7' vii:

