THE PLAY

URVASHI AND PURURAVAS
—D. D. Kosarnbi

Vz'iémmormrzr/Jgjiam ('Urvashi Won by Valour’) depicts the unshakeable passion of
the king Pururavas for the celestial nymph Urvashi. Pururavas saves Urvashi from
abduction by a demon, thereby gaining her love as indicated by the title. Kalidasa
draws on the story in Rgveda (X,95), but leaves his creative mark on the
development of the plot and characters. The fourth act uniquely contains numerous
dhruva songs, full of rnetaphoric images, conventionally sung by performers to
strengthen not only the entries and exits of drarnatis personae but also transitions
from one emotive state to another. This presence in the play of dhruvas in Sanskrit
and Apabhramsa proves its popularity in the theatre from the fourth or ﬁfth century to
the eleventh century and even later, supported by Kallinatha's sixteenth-century

commentary on the musical treatise Saﬂgz'mmna/éam, offering a detailed
choreography of the *nandi verse in Vzkmmormrbﬁiam. The elaborate stage
directions in Act Four pertaining to dance may reﬂect medieval interpolations, again
suggesting an unbroken tradition of performance.
Excerpted from: The Oxford Companion to Indian Theatre
Edited by : Ananda Lal, Oxford University Press, New Delhi, 2004

.

One of Kalidasa’s ﬁnest plays, Vi/emmorm/yg/am, has :fonits theme the love,
separation, and ﬁnal reunion of King Pururavas of the lunar race and the nymph
Urvashi. The apsara, on her way to heaven, is abducted by the démon, Kesi, froim
whose clutches the mortal king rescues her. This leads to their falling in love. She
ﬁnds the divine city ofAmaravati no longer attractive, and proves her love by making
a masked visit to his park. From the joy of this discovery, she is recalled to heaven, to
act the part of Lakshmi in a play to be staged before Indra. But the divine stagedirector, Bharata, sentences her to assume human form for rnispronouncing
Vishnu's name Purusottama as Pururavas. The curse is no great burden, as it
enables her to mate with Pururavas, but the course of their true love is interrupted
again and again. The heroine is turned into a vine, because of an unwitting
transgression : she steps into a grove sacred to the six-headed god SkandaKarttikeya,where no woman is allowed to enter. But she is restored to her husband
by a charmed jewel. The jewel is stolen by a bird of prey that is found shot dead by an
arrow bearing a legend which tells the king that Uravashi has borne him a son. This
means another reunion, which would be terminated by Urvashi’s restoration to
heaven ; but Indra having a war on his hands, allows her to remain on earth till her
husband ’3 death .

This crude analysis of a beautiful play by one of the world’s great poets and lndia's
great dramatist does no justice to the consummate skill with which the theme is
handled and embellished. What interests me here is the theme itself. It can be traced
right back to our oldest extant records namely the Satapatha Brahmana and the
Rgveda. The oldest report still contains some features of the play, for it is a dialogue
between the two principal characters, totally foreign in appearance to anything else
in the Rgveda. The action takes place at a crucial moment when the hero pleads with
the heroine and she refuses his request. Thus the happy ending is a much later
invention. As we shall see, there is a greater change than this in the structure of the
story. This change reﬂects precisely the difference between Vedic society and the
Gupta period, being in fact a transition from ritual to drama.

