Kalidasa’s Treatment
The theme attracted Kalidasa sufﬁciently to be treated more than once, being for him
simply the reunion of lovers separated by circumstances or by disfavour with the
gods. On the purely human level, we have his play the Ma/at’i/éagnimitr‘am, which
contains some of the most brilliant passages composed by the poet. There,
however, the heroine is a princess forced to serve as a handrnaid. On the other hand,
Sakuntala ﬁnds the hero unwilling to recognize either his wife or their son after a
period of separation, some petty miracles being needed to bring him back to his
senses. However, the lovers are always royal ; the entire level is that of the court, but
for an occasional scene in the forest or a herrnitage. The king is always noble in
character with his full complement of courtiers. In each of the three plays, there is at
least one other queen between the two lovers, a variety of the eternal triangle that
caused no difﬁculty in a polygarnous society, for the extra queen could yield
gracefully while still remaining a queen. The characters are certainly oriented
towards the contemporary reigning family, presumably the Guptas, as is seen from
the language, and the title Vikrama. Also by the fact that Pururavas is the founder of
the lunar line of kings while the son of Sakuntala is Bharata (the eponymous
ancestor of the greatest Rgvedic tribe) who is again enrolled into the Soma line of
descent. The women and servants speak Prakrit, a practice which reﬂects a situation
prevalent to this day in many parts of the country where formal school education has
not yet made its way or is still conﬁned to the males of a small upper class. For
example, the men of the land-holder class in Goa believe their language to be
Marathi or Portuguese, according to their religion, but the women speak Konkani.
Similarly in many parts of the Gangetic basin, where the Hindi spoken by the men of
the upper class differs very much from that spoken by the wornenfolk, and of course
from that of the peasants. But the aristocrats also generally speak the supposedly
cruder language or dialect, particularly when addressing women or servants, which
never happens with Kalidasa or any of the other sanskrit dramatists with the solitary
exception of the Sutradhara in the Mr-cr/Jahatt/eam prologue. We have here one of
the concornitants of a peculiarly Brahrnanic renaissance which did its best to create
a class language, refusing to acknowledge the failure that was absolutely
inevitable.Their only success was in preserving a dead language for religion, as with
Sumerian for the priesthood in Mesopotamia. The Sanskrit renaissance was due, in
fact, to concessions made to the popular idiom such as Maharastri or its prototypes.
Language is a means of communication for the whole of society. It develops, just as
does money and the concept of value, from social intercourse. At most, a class can
MARK its unity by means of a specialized vocabulary, or a particular accent, but both

must belong to the whole of their society for comprehension. In, much the same way,
no class can have a special currency for itself, nor can it monopolize all the means of
barter-exchange (money) in the realm. Kalidasa, therefore, has not even depicted his
own times very carefully, beyond the Brahminized concept of a royal court. But in the
earliest times the stories could not be meant to delineate a royal court, which had not
come into existence. Though the scriptures in which it seems to originate became
a
monopoly of the Brahmin class, their purpose was liturgical . So, we have to look much
deeper into the details of the story, and into their historical development, before
coming to any understanding of its origin.
* K. Marx capital 1. 1. 4 “value does not wear an explanatory label,farfrom it,
value
changes all labour products into social hieroglyphs. Subsequently, people
try to
decipher these hieroglyphs, to solve the riddle of their own social product- for
the
specification ofvalue isjust as much a socialproduct as language is. ”
Excerpted f/om: Myth and Reality
Popular Prakashan, Bombay, 1962

We are using a poem from Ramdhari Singh Dinkar’s work U RVASH | , a verse play based on
Kalidasa‘s VIKRAMORVASHIYAM to mark the birth centenary year of Dinkar : 2008.
The Music for the song in the second act of this play- ‘Garmi se behal mor’ - was scored

by BV Karanth

when he directed the play for N80 Students in 1996. We retained it in memory of Karanthji.
it it *

We are grateful to Kathakali Guru Kannan Parameshwaran who trained the students to depict
the
elephants in the fourth act of the play.

