Choreographer is Note
What attracted me to dance as a chi Id was its power to create an entire universe out

'wrong' - at least according to Bharatanatyam. Eventually, I began to see that the

of empty space. Over the years, as a dance student, a member of the audience, as a

defining lines of right and wrong movement became blurred when dance moved into

teacher too, I suppose I have always been in pursuit of that liberating power. And the

the realm of modern theatre. And now, । can say that this realizations has freed up my

chance to work with theatre artists has provided one more dimension to that search.

Bharatanatyam too, and helped me make it my own vehicle of expression while

l have long come to accept that this is a journey that has no end and many parallel

remaining within the discipline. in dealing with the students, । was keen to share the

paths . I also know that the dance form that became my chosen expression takes

motifs and imagery of ancient Indian culture be it in poetry or dance or other visual

years and lifetimes to learn. The more we learn, the more we know we don't know. I

arts and interpret them such that they make sense to people of today. This is not an

am forever wondering what will come at the next turn, so what can । presume to

ancient Indian play any more than I am a dancer from ancient times when I give a

teach? Especially to students with whom I will interact for only a few months? Maybe

Bharatanatyam performance. It is a performance in the present. if l have managed to

nothing. Sometimes though , these passing encounters - here and gone - stay with

communicate that conviction even in part to the students, I feel we will have shared

us. Like theatre moments - a memory that will flash as it finds different resonances

one of those wonderful moments. A theatre moment : here and gone, yet forever. As

later in life.
As I attempt to share what I have learnt on my journey so far, sometimes there are
moments of discovery for all of us. Those moments make projects like this one - call
them collaborative or experimental or foolhardy- worthwhile.
Working on this production of Vikramorvashiyam with the students and Rajendran
gifted me many learning experiences. The endeavour, whether in .class or while
working out the choreography for the play, was to introduce the students to a
language of expression whose concepts they could make their own. How classical
dance training helps us become aware (not self- conscious) of the body, how inner
emotions affect the body's stances, and how a codiﬁed lexicon of hand gestures,
bodily postures, movements and gaits adds up to an expressional vocabulary of
inﬁnite possibilities - these are some of the ideas I tried to share with them.
Kalakshetra helped me develop an analytical approach to dance. But after spending
years trying to acquire the correct technique, I had a rock solid idea of 'right' and

' for creating a universe out of empty space, there were set designers and light
designers and musicians to help fill it out. Sharing the universe with them has been a
delight too.

