Costume Design / AMBA SANYAL

Costume Designer 3' Note

She appeared on the stage in 'Heer lug/M and in the role of Kaikeye for many
years in Ram Leela productions of the Bharatiya Kala Kendra. She assisted Shanta

Sanskrit theatre gives one the possibility of accessing a vast landscape of visual

Gandhi in designing the mask and head-gear for the production of 'jamm Odbcm' for
the National School of Drama and has been a part of numerous NSD productions.
She also has documented
traditional sarees and
wearing styles of India for a
Government of India
project of which two
volumes have been
pubHshed.

imagery unparalleled in its scope for innovation. l have had the good fortune of
interacting with its many aspects and interpretations through the productions at the
National School of Drama. Each new production allows one to connect with so many
traditional sources of image-making, both classical and folk, in the visual and the
performing arts.
In Vzkmmomasbg'yam, KS Rajendran's reading of the play explores the synonyms in
nature and its relationship with human experience. This gave me an inroad into the
internal journey as expressed by the text. I wanted to experiment with pure colour and
texture without ornamentation so as to follow the conceptual flow as it works itself out
in the narration. The simplicity has been offset with a pristine quality in the jewellery
which accents the colour stories. Each exploratory experience is precious for it has
revealed to me; and I hope this one will add to the richness, that I have gained by
being with the process of exploring the different natures of each text.

वेशभूषा / अम्बा सपांन्यात्न
भारतीय कला केंद्र की रामलीला प्रस्तुतियों है कई वर्ष र्ककंयी की भूमिका में उतरने
वाली अम्बा ने संध पर अपनी पाती उपस्थिति 'हीर रांझा' नाटक में दर्ज कराई थी I
राचावि. के लिए 'जसमा तोड़ना दो प्रस्तुति में मुखोटा एवं पगडी डिजाइन में शांता
गांधी का सहयोग । इसके अलावा राचाबि की अनेक प्रस्तुतियों में हिस्सेदारी । भारत
सरकार की एक परियोजना में परंपरागत स्नाडियो और परिधान शैलियों पर शोध

जिसके दो जिन्हें प्रकाशित हो चुके है ।

