Set Design / H V SHARMA
Born in Hyderabad in November 1921 , Shri Sharma was brought up by his mother in
an atmosphere steeped in arts and crafts in which he received formal training in
music, painting, sculpture and related disciplines from a young age. In 1962 he
received a diploma in Theatre Arts from the National School of Drama and Asian
Theatre Institute. This was his eighth formal diploma, but informally he learnt a great
deal while working under luminaries like Ebrahim Alkazi, Govardhan Panchal and
D.N. Thakur. As senior scenic designer in the Song and Drama Division, New Delhi,
he has provided scenic design for over 70 plays and ballets. He has spent a major
part of his life teaching theatre architecture and scenic & costume design at various
institutions like NSD. He has authored five books and several articles on theatre and
music. He received the Sangeet NatakAkademi Award in 2005.

मंच परिकल्पना / एच. वी. शर्मा
हैदराबाद में उसे (नवंबर 4924) एच. वी. शर्मा का पालन-पोषण उनकी मात्तजी ने

कला और शिल्प के प्रति बिशेष रुझान के साथ जिया । युवावस्था में ही आपने संगीत,
चित्रकला और शिल्पकला में औपचारिक प्रशिक्षण प्राप्त जिया और कुछ अन्य दवाओं
में भी डिप्लोमा लिया .4962 में राष्टीय नाटय विद्यालय एवं एशियन थिएटर इंस्टीटयूट
से अपना अंतिम और आठवां डिप्लोमा नाट्यशास्त्र में प्राप्त जिया । लेकिन ज्यऱदा
शिक्षा आपने इब्राहीम अल्कऱजी, प्रो. गोवर्धन पांचाल और प्रो. डी. एन. ठाकूर रने
अनौपचारिक और व्यावहारिक रूप में पाई I
गीत एवं नाटक प्रभाग, नई दिल्ली के साथ वरिष्ठ दृश्य योजनाकार के रूप में अपने
सस्तर से ज्यादा नाटकों के लिए दृश्य रचना की । रा.ना.वि और अन्य नाटय रनंस्थानो
में रंग रथापत्य, दृश्य योजना और वेशभूषा का अध्यापन । उनका मानना है कि
अध्यापन सीखने का एक अच्छा माध्यम है । इसी नजरिये रने आपने रंगमंच रनंबंधी
विषयों पर पांच पुस्तकें और असंख्य लेख लिखे है I वर्ष 2005 में आपको अपने क्षेत्र में
योगदान के लिए राष्टीय सम्मान रने विभूषित किया गया ।

Set Designer ’3 Note
Scenic background has never been a demand of any classical play. Designing
visualized surroundings for events of a play pertained to the endeavour and
achievement of realism in the art of the theatre. The imagined surroundings
continued to follow the presentations of plays even in the styles of designing that
departed from realism. As a consequence, the play in action and the background
became one in due course. Such an integration is now considered inevitable on
logical grounds. It is from this point of view that l designed the background for the

performance of VikmmorzraJ/Jgj/am.
It is difﬁcult to translate literary excellence into visual terms. My reading of the play
and listening to its interpretation by K.S. Rajendran gave me the impression that
Kalidasa dealt with the beauty of nature as it appealed to his elevated intellect. Then,
he communicated to us his emotional experience through visual images. With my
meagre ability, I conceived the images in terms of many manifestations of GRACE .
In my design, I have used graceful curved lines, pleasing colours and soft textures
along with some artificial beautifying elements such as vertical and horizontal
straight lines and partial perfect forms as my means of expression.

