Rasik-Ramola—A Brief Synopsis
Siduwa and Biduw a— the two Ramola brothers, are called by Ancheri &
s,
Chancheri—the two'eternal inhabitants of the snows, to the grassy highland
arh
Ramolig
Siduwa’s wife Bijamati, who has seen some unfamiliar faces around
shares her anxiety with Saraswati. Bijamati pleads with Siduwa for abondoning
his visit to highlands. He laughs her fears away and both the brothers depart.
Taking advantage of this Kalu Vazir, the Ruler of Tarai. in collaboration with
another warlord Malu. invades Ramoligarh. In the battle that ensues, Gangu
Ramola, the father of Siduwa and Biduwa, is slayed. Bala Siddhe Nath avenges

his grand fathers’ slaying by killing Main and gets treacherously slayed by Kalu
Vazir.
While all this is going on, both the brothers are engrossed in their musical
soirees with Ancheri and Chancheri & the fairies, in Seli Sagar-the grassy highlands where snow shines eternally. the mountain breeze blows softly, the
rhododendron ﬂowers blossom, in their full glory and a fog envelopes everything.
The Ramola brothers, are visited in their dream by Bijamati and Siddhe Nath
and they get disturbed. But the fairies exhort them to dismiss it as an illusion,
and to continue with celeberating the Nature. They teach the Ramola brothers,
the philosophy of life.
In the meantime, Siddhe Nath’s pet bird ‘Kafua’, sent by the grief stricken
Bijamati to the Ramolas, reaches Seli Sagar. Siduwa understands the language
of birds and when he learns what has transpired in Ramoligarh, he along with
Biduwa, gets enraged. attack Kalu Vazir, kills him and brings his head to
Bijamati. Bijamati does not get consoled. She wants her son.
Siduwa calls the twin bees, and sends them to the fairies with a message to

dispel Bijamati’s illusion. The fairies appear before Bijamati and the Rarnolas,
with Siddhe Nath. They sing to them & ask them to be cheerful, as Siddhe Nath
now belongs to the highlands. Siddhe Nath consoles Bijamati telling her that
he now lives in the ﬂute of his father and the drum of his uncle. The fairies
exhort all to sing the song of life, as life is very short. Let there be more colour,
more music, more dance to reach the eternal bliss.
All celebrate the occasion.

