/
[r""r
i
il

त he city of joy recently went f?
है ३1१९
overboard with the cele-gwg .,
bration of the most await-"‘
ed festival of Bengalis,
Durga Puja. If the Pujas start with
musical extravaganzas, the festival
becomeseven more enjoyable. The

The festive mood
-m:_

३ PUja of Ballygunge Durga Puja
५ Samity (popularly known as the
Maddox Square Puja) stepped into
its 80th anniversary this year: It
started the celebrations on Mahapanchami with a solo sarod recital
by Amaan Ali Khan, accompanied
by Vijay Ghate on tabla. Amaan had
inaugurated the Durga Puja of Maddox Square in 2010 as well, for the organizers’ ’75th-year celebrations.
Since then, he has been an integral
part of this puja samity.
Amaan started his performance
with Raag Puriya Dhanashree.
Puriya Dhanashree, being one the
most popular sandhiprakash ragas,
does not take much time to get the
listeners engaged. Starting with a
brief alap, Amaan played a got in
jhaptal. The small vistars were
quite intricate, with the proper use

Angshumitra Dutta
of pancham and komal rishabh.
Amaan’s recitals are well known for
the superfast taans he plays. He
played off-beat taans in one-and-ahalf laya and most of his taans were
essentially tihai taans, which created grandeur with the apt accompaniment of tabla. The same magic
was recreated when he played those
jet-speed taans at double and
quadruple speed.
The second composition of the
evening was in Raag Durga, which
seems to be the Senia-Bangashgharana favourite. Amaan successfully
created the ambience ﬁt for Durga
Puja. A brief aochar was followed
by a very popular gat in teental.
Sometime popular tunes can arrest

listeners

easily

in । _ .

spite of loads of dis- f" टू…traction. The compo- '
sition in Raag Durga
did exactly this. Understanding the demands of the situation, Amaan slid into
taans quickly without
elaborating the vistar
part. Playing everything, from small, offbeat taans to gamak a...
taans, Amaan left no
stone unturned to make his performance enthralling. Vijay Ghate,
who, coincidentally, was the birthday boy of the day, showed his virtuosity through the'kaidas and tukdas
in the middle of the recital.
The next composition was in
Raag Desh. A jovial, less grave gat
was played by Amaan in Rupak taal

क्या प्याबाशन शब्द इग्ला 7..

was, I guess, chosen carefully to set
the festive mood. The slower vistars
were good but the meend from madhyam to rishabh via gandhar was
used too. many times. The quintessential quality of Raag Desh is deﬁnitely this meend, which separates
it from the neighbouring raag, Tilak
—'

B."

e " चं '३ r '

Kamod, but somehow it sounded
repetitive in the vistars. Taans are
Amaan’s forte. When he starts playing a faster gut in teental, listeners
fasten their seat belts for the joyride
of taans. And he presented them
with the gift of different forms of
taans as his fingers moved at a
blinding pace.
Expectedly, when he announced
his last composition of the evening,
listeners screamed, demanding Rabindranath Tagore’s “Ekla cholo
re”, which is a signature presentation of Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and
his successor, Amaan Ali Khan. Although he had planned to play a
bhatiyali composition at the end, he
could not refuse the audience’s demand. He said, “This is the reason
why I’m still akela, still single.” The
popular bhatiyali tune was played
with great elan. Then Amaan played
the much sought after Rabindrasangeet tune and came back to the
main tune at the end. This performance managed to strike the right
chord in the heart of every listener
— from connoisseurs to laymen.
.a ‘ ‘
उस---------------------

