.. १
V a

.

.

१

टू
ll
n

३

’

rm c at»

करब-:.'."-"-i—- .2853
iV~4—?9
v- ._

Iheplot. .01..

many of the tragic incidents of the old Greek

myths. As in Oedipus, the son fights the father, and commits adultery
(technically incest) with the mother (in this case, the step-mother). As in
Medea, the wife kills her child in order (partly) to gain revenge on the
husband. But the plot of Desire changes the pattern of the old Greek
tragedies so radically that it creates an essentially new myth.

The play opens in 1850, on the farm of Ephraim Cabot-a hard working,
God-fearing patriarch. His first two wives have; died. and in the first act
he has just left to bring home a third wide. His three sons hate him and
plot against him and Eben (the only son of the second wife) steals the
father's money to buy the inheritance of his older brothers, who then run
away to join the California gold rush, just as Ephraim and his bride,
Abbie, return. The second act describes the increasing hatred of Abbie for
her old husband, and her gradual seduction of the young Eben (she has
married only to get the security of the farm). The acts ends with the
'incest' of 'mother' and son. The third act begins a year later with a
raucous party celebrating the birth of a new son (all the guests know that
it is actually not Epharim's but Eben's). But young Eben learns that Abbie
has seduced him to father a new heir who will insure her own inheritance
of the term. But in the final scene he is convinced of her love, and he
accepts his share of blame for the crime. The young lovers are led to
their punishment, and old Epharairn is left alone on his farm.

The play finally becomes a kind of dramatic fable which realizes the
abstract truth of Emersons' poem, 'Hamatreya. 'Throughout, the EarthSpirit seems to sing : 'Mine—not yours. Earth endures. 'The older brothers:

'shoulder each other... like two friendly oxen toward their evening meal.‘
And Ephrain Cabot escapes from the house to sleep with the animals in
the barn (O‘Neill himself sometimes escaped from the company with his
wife invited by sleeping in the barn). Abbie warns her lover: 'Nature ‘ll
beat ye, Eben.‘ And the title of the play emphasizes this fact. In different

vein, Abbie Warns Ephraim about the farm: 'ye can't take it with yel' And
"Neill seems instinctively to have returned to the simple, naturalistic style
of his early plays to give simple, direct expression to this elemental tragedy.

ASMITA'S contact : (Deepak Ochanl) Ph. 7231801 (Tarun Ball) 5492036
(Arvlnd Gaur) 2116554 (Kapll Galtl) 5741758 (Manurlshl Chadha) 7120159

(Jltender Gupta) Telefax 11-7180720, (Naveen Tyagl) 5116599

