'रि-ष्टअंट्स-.. Fm ‘~

३'शां'३३'
"३८३"

5i? ३ ३ i

Lwimm
धी ५३१५
प्रे

हैं

~ ६ ८" " 7 ३३3५८;है "'हूँ
~—« —v— N 51..

M harashtra Sens

utI k Sa m ItI

‘

RYरा-र-पर '-.'. ".-. ."-. -.-.-. -, भादु

WNW"F“गा' ‘ - '“0-1‘;.- ”v... .... .. . .-

I
l

lश्चिम्भक्लि…८……म्भर्था
Founded in 1965, the Samiti completes thirteen years of its frUItfuleXIstenceIn
February '78. Maharashtra Sanskrutik Samiti owes its origin to the schemes of its founder-President, the late Shri S. G. Barve, the then member of the Planning Cornmission, to have an organisation that would contribute to the country's cultural
ethos by projecting the best in Maharashtra's cultural heritage and also facilitate
cross-fertilisation of idea on cultural matters. With that end in view, the Samiti
embarked upon programmes touching on various facts of Maharashtra’s cultural
life—its literature, its music, its theatre etc.

Apart from avante-garde Marathi plays, the Samiti has been instrumental in bringing
about a dialogue between the artists, musicians and men of letters from Maharashtra
and their counter parts in Delhi. Among such eminent persons from Maharashtra
are playwright P. L. Deshpande and Vijay Tendulkar, actor-director Jabbar Patel and

Dr. Lagu, musicians Sudhir Phadke and Dr. Vasantrao Deshpande, writers like late
G. D. Madgulkar and Ranjit Desai. ln retrOSpect, the organisers feel happy over their
humble achievements through the past thirteen years. The Samiti hopes to continue
its activities in the years to come with the kind rapport between its members and
we] l-wish ers .
Executive Committee
Patron
President
Vice President

Y.B. Chavan
Mohan Dharia
. G.R. Patil, M.P.

Working President

G.A. Bhatkal

Secretary
Executive Members

R.M. Hejib
B.K. Kelkar

R.G. Mulgund
A. N. S a r potd a r

Theatre Academy Pune
An amateur Institution established on the World Theatre Day on 27th March 1973
under the leadership of Dr. Jabbar Patel, Datta Kalaskar, Sridhar Rajguru, Satish

Alekar and Dr. Panwalkar. They run a mobile or a house theatre with little settings,
necessary costumes and a few lights. They perform one-act plays through the
mobile theatre. They have arranged a series of lectures by eminent writers like

Vijay Tendulkar, Vidyadhar Pundlik, P.L. Deshpande, D.V. Karanth, Dr. Lagu, Dilip
Jagtap and Anil Awachat.

