Bertolt Brecht and Marathi
Theatre
AROON

T l K E KA R

The Hindi versions of Bertolt Brecht’s Three Penny Opera and Caucasian Chalk
Circle performed in Bombay in 1971 by the National School of Drama, New Delhi,
had evoked a lot of interest in the discerning theatregoers of Bombay. Both the plays
were directed by Mr. Fritz Benewitz, German Director from Weimar. An exhibition
of books and photographs about Brecht was also held at St. Xavier's College, Bornbay, soon afterwards. Then came in 1972 the English revision of The Good Woman of

Setzuan by an amateur drama troupe, the Workshop, of Mrs. A mal Allana, daughter

of Mr. E. Alkazi, the former Director of the National School of Drama.
These three events generated in the minds of English- knowing Marathi theatre
activists and lovers a curiosity about the Brechtian ideas of theatre and also about
his technique which made a distinct departure from the tenets laid down by

Aristotle.
As years passed by, Brecht, with his ideOIOgy of theatre and his technique,
became a familiarized name in Bombay and experimentalists began studying him with

a more determined effort on their, part to see how Brecht can best suit the Marathi
theatre. Even today Brecht has not lost any glamour for these precursors of
tomorrow's Marathi theatre. On the contrary Brecht has come to stay on in the
contemporary Marathi theatre world and his theory of Alienation Effect in an
Epic
Theatre is gaining a wideSpread recOgnition.
Brecht's technique differed from Aristotelian concept of an ideal play.
The
latter wlth his ideas of Unity of Time, Space and lrnpression, and his
concepts such
as Katharsis and Hamartia were known to the university educated persons
engaged
in Marathi theatre world as these words came to enter their ears
when they sat in
the lecture halls of the University as students.
Therefore an introduction to Brecht‘s idea that “certain incidents
in the play
should be treated as self-contained scenes, and raised-—by means
of music or sound
effects and the actor's way of playing his role—above the
level of the everyday, the
obvious, and the expected”, was deemed to be a novel
breakthrough for Marathi
theatre which this new band of educated theatre activists was
looking for. To them
Brecht and his non-Aristotelian theatrical concepts with its precedence
of plot over

narrative, was a phenomenon worth exploring further and to
attempt to give it a

