by
Marathi garb, if possible. Episodic presentation of a play as recommended
Brecht and as contrasted against the oft-repeated technique of a well-made play,
the
captured the minds of these young innovators and prompted them to study

German poet-playwright further.
Before discussing the inﬂuence of Brecht on Marathi drama, it is necessary to
know in what way his views differed from those of Aristotle. Therefore a short
discussion about what Brecht tried to do when he decided to part with Aristotle,

will not be out of place.
Brecht’s idea of ‘Epic Theatre’ and his Theory of ‘Alienation Eﬁect'
Brecht used to argue that the conventional theatre had outlived its usefulness
since it reduced the Spectator to a role of complete passivity. Therefore the theatre
which he recommended—later branded as Epic—was not to devel0p along the lines
of a well-made play. According to the Brechtian technique, each scene of a play
is an episode in itself and all scenes joined together create a total impact. Brecht's

play presents a story from the vieWpoint of a single story-teller. Places and Time are
the
freely changed. His play' narrates some scenes while shows others; it bridges
The
passage.
brief
a
in
be,
passage of time, may be, with a single sentence or, may

presentation of episodes also is unusual. Brecht always wanted "the natural" to
all social condi—
look "surprising". The Epic Theatre as conceived by Brecht puts
But with a diffeplea.
court
a
be
tions on trial and the whole play often seems to
done in a wellrence. The playwright does not provide a verdict, as is generally

made play. The viewers are expected to think about it themselves.
Plays, there
As the verdict is not passed at the end of play, like The Absurd
treatment of
the
Therefore
are certain demands made on the part of the audience.
the presentation of a
the theme in a Brechtian play necessitates one more aspect of

Eﬁect theory
play. That is the Alienation Effect, which, again, Opposes the Kathartic
audience to confuse
of Aristotle. Brechtian technique consists in not allowing the
is to be thought as a
what it sees on stage with reality. The production of a play
emotions with those
comment on life to be judged critically without involving one's
, thus, rules
technique
This
of the character being played on stage by the player.
contrary
totally
This is
out identiﬁcation of the viewer with the character on stage.
narrative was more
to what Aristotle said in his Theory of Katharsis. As for Brecht
many ideas about
important than linear sequential deveIOpment of the plot of a play,

never wanted the
acting and characterization had to be revolutionalized. Brecht
recommended a consactor to impersonate the character. He, on the other hand,
to be played by an
cious, rational and demonstrative attitude towards a character
actor.

Brecht’s inﬂuence on Marathi Stage
ed Devajeene
Rangayan, Bombay's pregressive amateur drama troupe present
history of
the
in
rk
landma
Karuna Ke/i, on 9th Oct. 1972. This event was trailed as a

to the Marathi
Marathi threatre as that was the ﬁrst time Brecht was brOUght on

