stage. The play was Brecht's The Good Woman of Setzuan in its Marathi garb. It was

adapted by Vyanktesh Madgulkar who has been well-versed in Marathi folk tradition
and had written quite a few short stories with village locale. Mrs. Vijaya Mehta, an
able student of Mr. Alkazi, and herself an advocate of experimental theatre activity,
directed this play and presented it with great ambition, perseverence and conﬁdence.
With excellent cast and good technique, the production of Devajeene Karuna Keli
was acclaimed by the critics and commoners as an important event of 1972 as far as
, Marathi theatre activity was considered.
It was actually a bit of a surprise when Mrs. Mehta announced her decision of
introducing Brecht to Marathi theatre-goers, because she was known to be an ardent
follower of the Russian Stanislavsky system of acting and Brechtian technique does
not concur on many points with Stanislavsky. Her love for Stanislavsky proved in
good stead as far as her admirers and Marathi theatre-goers were concerned but it

was felt that Brecht was not introduced in his original form but was adopted to suit
the Marathi mind and taste. She did bring the Marathi theatre out of the rut of 'wellmade' plays, attempted some innovations on Marathi stage. Clever as she is, she
knew that for the Marathi theatre-goers Brecht and his ideas will not be cent per

cent palatable. She accepted from Brecht what was convenient and added to it the
local colouring to suit the taste of the Marathi audience. The blending proved to be
.
a good success.
It was difﬁcult to bring Brecht to Marathi theatre as he is for reasons more than
one.
Brechtian drama makes abundant use of folk culture. Therefore experirnentalists who craved for innovations took the opportunity of bringing on the stage of
SOphisticated closed auditorium such folk elements which, till then, were found only
in folkplays performed in villages on temporarily constructed stage in tamashas.
Exploiting Brechtian technique, these experirnentalists brought in Marathi folk traditions such as nandi, batawani, keertan, bhajan, dashavtar, nawtanki, bharood, gondhal
and Gujarati bhavai to create a novel effect in a Brechtian play. But Brecht never
meant his theatre to be essentially a folk theatre, though he made generous use of
folk element in his plays. Such a use for him was a means to an end; but for the

Marathi theatre activists it is, perhaps, an end in itself.
Among other reasons, and a major reason at that, is that Brecht was essentially and ideologically a
cisrn in his plays and
change. This was a bit
also for the audience.

Marxist. Therefore there was a certain amount of didactiin most of them one ﬁnds a demand for a violent social
too much for those engaged in Marathi theatre activity and
In Marathi, till today, entertainment has precedence over

didacticisrn, emotionalism

over intellectualisrn, and emotional disturbance over

rational thought provocation. Things are showing a change and perhaps a decade
more will show that even Brecht is palatable in his true form.

'

Caught in a dilemma, a middle course was adopted : of adapting Brecht in a

limited way. The first Marathi adaptation of Brecht's play, thus, was, from the point

