of view of average Marathi theatre-goer a happy blend of Brechtian technique and
Indian tradition.

The years that passed by showed that Brecht had proved to be an inSpirer of a
new style which earned reCOQnition and public patronage. The year 1973 saw another remarkable production. Murnbai Marathi Sahitya Sangh of Bombay launched a

prestigious production of Marathi adaptation of Brecht's Caucasian Chalk Circle
which was jointly directed by the German Director Fritz Benewitz and Vijaya Mehta.

The German play was given a Marathi garb at the hands of C. T. Khanolkar, an
eminent Marathi poet-playwright.
The narrative, montage, self-contained scenes, and rational argument of Brecht
were presented with more authenticity because of the association of a German
Director from Weimar. Talented Bhaskar Chandawarkar rendered a distinctive musi-

cal score for the play. This production of the Murnbai Marathi Sahitya Sangh had the
unique distinction of presenting itself in Germany where too it was appreciated to a
great extent.
Since many parallels could be drawn between the social situation in Germany

at the time of Brecht (1898-1956) and contemporary Maharashtra, Brechtian technique has attracted a number of young theatre activists from Maharashtra. In April
1976, Ratnakar Matkari adapted for the Sutradhar, his own drama troupe Max Frisch‘s
Andorra and presented. it as Nagari Andhera. The production was Sponsored by the
Max Mueller Bhavan of Bombay and was directed by Norbert Mayer. Nagari Andhera.
also expostulated Brechtian idea of a detached theatre. in between the scenes, the
characters appeared and confessed to the audience that they should not have
behaved as they did.
The fact that even a consummate artiste like P.L. Deshpande who is at the
zenith of p0pularity should be attracted towards Brecht, speaks for the inﬂuence
that Brecht has on the contemporary Marathi theatre. Last year, he rendered
Brecht's Three Penny Opera into Marathi and Theatre Academy of Pune accepted

the challenge of producing the play.

Even today, after a year or so, the production,

Teen Paishacha Tamasha draws packed houses in Maharashtra, despite a voice or
two in the crowd claiming that neither P.L. Deshpande nor Jabbar Patel has learnt
well his lessons in Brechtian technique.
Whether Brecht is produced on the Marathi stage with careful authenticity or
not, the fact remains that Brecht has contributed a lot towards a serious, and
meaningful theatre in Marathi during the last decade and continues to be an inspirer
to many a budding stage-director, playwright and artiste.

