Putul Yatra 2005, Mumlmi
A Festival and Ex/Jibitz'on aflndicm Puppetry

Sangeet Natak Akaderni arrives in Murnbai with an offering to the city’s
enthusiastic audience in the performing arts — I’utul Yatra — not long after its
last festival presented late in 2003 — the Nritya Swarn festival of dance.
Earlier, in December of 2002, the Akademi had organized in Mumbai a two—
week festival of theatre, Natya Parva. But while our thoughts were then with
the human theatre, they are now with its diminutive relation to the human
theatre —— the puppet theatre.
Whether perceived and termed as ‘play’ or ‘dance’ in one or other region in
India, puppetry is certainly a theatrical art which is not bound to the concrete
playhouses within which a great deal of our urban theatre now takes place.
More often than not, in India as elsewhere in the world, it has been a repertory
always on the move, on foot more often than on wheels, and has survived on
the slender custom of the poor of the land.
It was thus that puppetry lived on in India, on the margins of high art
and our consciousness, till such time as we discovered ‘heritage’ in the modern
era. But this discovery, coming as it did in colonial India, came as part of the
very process that threatened, and continues to threaten, to alienate the tiller
from his land, the craftsman from his craft, and in a manner of speaking, the
singer from his song. Can this seemingly inevitable process be reversed, or at
least be checked by public policy?
There is no certain answer to this question. Nevertheless, leaders in the arts
in India have addressed the question and, well aware of present dangers, have
sought to institute measures to protect the art of puppetry. The late Kamaladevi
Chattopadhyay, a zealous defender of India’s ‘traditional arts’, was pre—erninent
among these leaders and policy-makers. It is in some measure owing to her
interest that Sangeet Natak Akademi has lent its support to puppet theatre since
its early years. This has taken the form of training programmes in puppetry;
workshops involving traditional and non-traditional puppeteers; seminars where
present day problems and issues have been discussed and festivals in which
puppetry in various forms has been presented to the public. In 2003, on the
occasion of the Goldern Jubilee Celebrations of the Akaderni which coincided
with the birth centenary of the late Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, the first Putul
Yatra festival, one of the largest events focusing on puppetry was organized by
the Akademi and presented in Delhi. It was representative of most of the
existing traditional and contemporary forms and included thirty-two puppet
performances from different regions of the country, an exhibition of puppets,
an international seminar on puppetry, and also screening of video footage on
puppetry from the archives of the Akademi. In the course of the events
presented in I’utul Yatra, the first World Puppet Day (21 March, 2003) was
celebrated by the Akademi with a special performance in Delhi. Earlier that
year, the international union of puppeteers, UNIMA, had announced the Day
to its members all over the world.
The entire collection of puppets together with associated musical
instruments has also been displayed at Tolosa and Gijon in Spain in the period,

