YAKSHAGANA GOM BEYATA
TRADITIONAL STRING PUPPET THEATRE OF KARNATAKA

Ramayana — C/Jooa’amam' Laa/eaaa/aana
Sri Ganesh Yakshagana Gombeyatta Mandali, Karnataka. Director: BHASKAR KOGGA KAMATH

SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY

leading the southern band of

Han uman assures Sita of Rama’s

An episode from the Ramayana,

monkeys, continue their quest. They

coming. Sita gives the rhooa’amani to

Lan/eaa’a/sza — Lanka Set Ablaze —

meet Sampathi, the bird king, from

Hanuman to give to Rama.

begins with the traditional

whom they learn ol‘Sita’s abduction

Hanuman leaves her. He kills Jambu

preliminaries of Yakshagana

by Ravana. Sampathi leads them to

Mali, the night watchman OFAshoka

Gombeyatta, the Ganesh Pooja,

Vana. Indrajeet manages to capture

followed by the dance of the damsels.

the shores of the sea leading to
Lanka. Hanuman leaps across the

The Oa'dokzga, or audience, of the

ocean. Chaya, a demoness, swallows

Hanuman and brings him to Ravana.
Ravana sets Hanuman’s tail on fire.

monkey king, Sugteeva, at Kishkinda

Hanuman. He pierces her stomach

Hanuman then sets Lanka ablaze.

follows. The episode enacted from

and frees himself. Hanuman then

The performance concludes with the

the Ramayana, the quest for Sita

encounters Lankani, who dies.

M angalam .

Devi, then begins. A band of

Following the heavenly voice,

northern monkeys in search ofSita
reaches Kailasa, where they receive

Han urnan reaches Ashoka Vana and
finds Sita. Hanuman witnesses

dam/7am from Ishwara, who informs

Ravanas attempts to woo Sita. Ravana

them that Hanurnan will succeed in

is angry when Sita spurns him, and

Puppetry): String puppet plays are
variously known as Sutraaa

tracing Sita. The monkeys return to

he attempts to kill her. Queen

Combeyatra in the southern Mysore

Kishkinda. In the next scene,

Mandodari pacifies her husband and

Hanuman , J ambavan, Angada,

leads him away from the grove.

area. Gombqyatta in the north and
szsluzgazza Gomlieyatta in the coastal

ABOUT THE TRADITION
SutradaGombeyatta (String

