districts of Karnataka. They are quite
similar to the Yazks/Jagana theatre
performances of their respective
regions, especially in regard to the

also speaks and sings for the character
he manipulates.
The musicians are the

theme, the structure of performance,

B/yagavatar —— the singer with tala,
and others on the maddale, c/Jma'e,

music, costumes and make—up. The

harmonium and mukbaveene.

coastal Karnataka style of )ézks/aagana
Goméeyatta, for instance, closely
follows the regional variant of the
theatre form in its preliminaries, the

The Mysore and Bangalore
region has a puppet play form in
which both strings and rods are used
for manipulation, known as the

Hanumannayaka and the arati to

Salakz' Gombeyatta. The rods are
attached to the hands of the puppet,

Ganesha. The Praranga or the main

while the strings are tied to the ears

episode, begins with an Oddolaga, of

and head of the puppet at one end

a king or god where the characters are
introduced from behind the curtain.

and at the other end to a cloth-

Purvaranga, in the clowning scenes of

The string puppets, up to one
metre high and weighing about six to
eight kilograms, are shaped out of

covered iron ring placed on the head
of the manipulator. This technique
enables the puppeteer to make the
puppets perform special actions or
effects, such as lighting a lamp or
garlanding a character. The puppeteer
also pushes the heavier puppets with

light and durable varieties of wood.

his knees to create more forceful

Distinguishing features of the

IIIOVCIIICII[S .

The themes and stories of the puppet
plays are drawn from the Ramayana,
Mahabharata and Parana;

northern and coastal puppets are
their legs, and hip and knee joints,
which enable them to perform
complex dance movements. The
puppets of southern Karnataka do
not have legs and are draped in long
skirts. Their headgear, make—up,
costumes and ornaments transform

the puppets into character types
ranging from heroes and demons to
hunters and forest—dwellers, as in the
theatre of the region

The puppet is manipulated
. with six black strings, two each
attached to the ears, knees and hands.
These pairs are tied to three wooden
sticks, each 15 centimetres long, held

in the hand by the puppeteer, who

