A PEEP INTO THE
GARDEN 0F
NATYA (NRITHYA)

[:1 HEMA RAJAN
President, Tamil Sangam

In this holy land of ours Fine Arts have always enjoyed
a unigue status in the cultural life of the peOple. It is
common knowledge that music, dance or painting in the

West, centres round one single theme, namely romance.
Portrayal of Nature, where it occurs, helps but to relieve the
monotony now and then. But in our culture, Fine Arts are

exalted into a way of worship.

We say that all art is

“Bhagwat Arpitan”.

The theatre or drama is a source of pleasure in different

assets and it is our duty to preserve, foster and encourage
all of them and accord patronage to the artists.
Natyavidya is described to be a delightful and spectacular loftiest, the most moving, the most beautiful of the
sacrifice to Gods.
There is a saying that Brahma made Natya as the fifth
Veda, taking Words from Rig Veda, Music from Samaveda,
Mudras from Yajur and Rasa from Atharva Veda, so that
this art, which gives true enjoyment for both the eyes and
ears, which can be understood both by the educated and
the uneducated because of its expressive Abhinaya, can be
a Veda acceptable to every human mind. Nandikeshwara,
in his “Abhinaya Darpana" glorifies the art and also defines
the qualities of a good dancer. Dances, whether classical
or folk, developed in different regions of India, have their
own distinctive features. While the differences are in the
matter of expression, the moving spirit underlying each of
them is the same. For, in Indian dances spiritual experience
manifests itself in physical expression, evoking deep emotion
through sheer physical grace. The themes born of deep
reverence for nature, and for life, encompass the Cosmic
cyeles no less than the rhythmic rotation of the seasons.
Thus unity arnidist diversity characterises Indian dancing.

With its visual and sound effects it can be the

When we take up Bharatha Natyarn, they say the word
Bha stands for Bhava, Ra for Raga and Tha for Thala. The
colourful settings, gorgeous costumes, exquisite gestures

most powerful mass media of instruction and education.

and fluid flowing movement of the limbs, the accompani-

Thus all forms of dancesas well as music and drama which
have descended to us from ancient times are our national

ment of songs rich in poetic content, and music enlivened

ways to men of different tastes-mega भिन्न रुचे जनस्य बहुधायेकं
समाराधनम् I

है ‘ '. ,

2 है

_'

- ‘

by perfect percussion—all these go to

make Bharatha

