M OCK DOCTOR
MOLIERE (1622- 1673)
Moliere is known to posterity as one of the great comic dramatists of all time.
Like Corneille, Moliere was educated at Jesuit College where he received a
thorough education in classioal literature. At the age of twenty one he was drawn

to the theatre, joined a company and after initial failures spent the formative
years of his life, from 1645, until 1658, touring the rprovinces with a troupe, for whom
he acted and Wrote plays. By the time he returned to Paris, he was an accom—

plished writer of conventional comedies, a good actor and an admirable director
and stage manager. His company, named lllustre Theatre at first performed in
various indoor tennis courts in Paris, but despite the patronage of the Duke of
Orleans did not acheive a great success. Moliere was sued for the theatre ’ s debts

and imprisoned twice Continued financial difficulties forced the lllustre theatre to
close in 1649 but Moliere did not abandon the theatre. There were many who
recognised his talent and soon he was ablke to secure the support and
patronage of the king himself, then a gay young man determined to make the

court of Versailles the centre of a lustrous age. No one was better fitted than
Moliere to supply Louis XIV with enertainments he needed, but patronage did not

blunt his pen and between 1664 and 1666 he wrote his three masterpieces : Le
Misanthrope, Tartuffe and Don Juan. Tartuffe and Don Juan created such a fury
that they were both supperssed.

Moliere’s fibre is evident in these plays, and in the others which followed. ‘Les
Precieuses ridicules’ and ‘L’ Ecole des femmes’ were daring satires up on the most
ridiculous aspects of French society and there were plenty of people to say that
Moliere was reincarnation of the devil.
Moliere’s stature as one of the world ’5 great masters of the dramatic form is
based in part on his ability to create a wide range of remarkable Theatrical
characters. But equally important is his success in depicting, in a mocking and
irreverent style, and morals and manners of the 1 7th century and the vices and
pretensions of his countrymen. In the preface to ‘Tartuffe,’ Moliere asserted that

since nothing on earth lies beyond the possibility of human corruption and since
the force of ridicule is second to none in defining and correction evil, no topic
should be considered sacrosant from satric inspection.
Although force had long been a popular tradition in France, it was scorned
by the literates during the early 17th century and relegated to public fairs. Only
the improvised commedie dell ‘artre remained in favour, and in it Moliere found

the hasis of his new comedy incorporating the commediae rudita, which was
written than improvised and the classic Roman comedy, he had seen in his school
days, he gradually shaped the future development of French comedy. Moliere

broke with the traditional five act form, often using only one act or three, and
freed drama of many of the classical restraints Actors began to speak on stage

as they did in life, repartee replaced long speeches, His great character studiesthe pedant the miser, the bluestocking, the moral purist, the social climber, the
religious hypocrite-are not stock characters, but realistically drawn creations
whose prototypes could be seen in contemporary society.

