THE GLASS MENAGERIE
TENNESSEE WILLIAMS
Thomas Lanier (Tennessee) Williams was born on March 26, 191 1, in
Columbus, Mississippi. His father was a traveling salesman for a shoe
company and his mother the daughter of an Episcopalian clergyman . The

family, which included Tom’s older sister Rose, moved to St. Louis in 1918,
after which his brother, Walter Dakin, was born. Sensitive and physically
delicate, Williams found the transition from the small Southern town to a big
“Northern” city difficult. His small size, his Deep South accent and manners,
and his incapacity for, as well as disinterest in, athletics made him the butt
of his schoolmates. Unable to participate in their games and mocked by

his unsympathetic father, Tom drew closer to his sister and began to write.
He called his St. Louis boyhood “lonely and miserable. ”
In 1932, his father, disappointed in the boy and pressed by financial
need, removed hlm from college and obtained for him a $ 65-a-month job
In the warehouse of the International Shoe Company. Williams worked by
day and wrote by night;

In 1939 Story Magazine published Williams's short story “A Field of Blue
Children, ” the first work to appear under his new first name, Tennessee. The
nickname had been given to him by his university classmates
During World War II, Williams was classified 4-1: because of a heart
condition. Wandering about the country, he lived for a time in New York
and New Orleans. Then, through the efforts of Audrey Wood, he received
a job writing for the Metro-Goldwyn Mayer film company. Williams was
unhappy with his motion-picture assignments, and the studio executives
were unhappy with his work. They rejected an original film script entitled
The Gentleman Caller, and when his contract expired, he left Hollywood

and converted the script into The Glass Menagerie (1944). This play not only
marked Williams ’5 first major success and established him as an important
American dramatist.
During this period he received many awards. The Glass Menagerie won

the New York Drama Critics Circle award as the best American play of the
1944-1945 season.
In addition to writing plays, Williams has written a volume of poetry, In
the Winter of Cities (1955); short stories; screenplays; and a novel, The
Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone (1950). Many of his plays have been repro-

duced in motion-picture versions. Recently, Williams announced his conversion to Roman Catholicism.

