The broad पु१र्श०ता।पझे Q +

- o

. Hr‘hm

ge and sustain the

creative efforts and aspirations of young entre o
"’ theatre workers with
accent on experimental and innovative aspect of Theatrical art. By encouraging young directors to launch innovative and experimental
production techniques, seeking inspiration at the same time in the tradition—
al/folk/modern theatre forms a synthesis of innovative and the established
was sought to be achieved. Thus, it is believed , that a process of artistic cross
fertilization between modern sensibilities and ancient theatrical practices
help contemporary theatre assimilate the heritage of the past. There is

ample evidence to indicate the existance of such theatre activity involving
serious effort by many theatre workers both established and not so estab—
lished. But the lack, however, of experimental nature owing to high financial
and artistic risks involved makes it expedient that this potential and fruitful
activity should receive sustenance on a continuing basis. With this end in
view competent and experienced individual theatre directors and their
groups are identified and those thus selected are offered substantial finan—
cial assistance छि cover the cost of the productions.

It is heartening to note that a good number of theatre groups, backed by
nightly creative genuises, have taken advantage of the opportunity offered
by the Akademi. This is not to say, however, that the Akademi has totally
succeeded in tapping the hidden theatrical talent and histrioriic potential
in this zone. it is possibléthat some are not even aware of the incentives the
Akademi has been offering for budding as well as veteran showmen with
innovative ideas. To all of them, the Akademi is ever willing to lend a helping
hand, especially if the constraint happens to be financial and physical. We
are sure that more and more theatre groups and creative genuises will give
expression to their artistic talent through the efforts of the Akademi.

The South Zone Festival l 990 will enable the theatre lovers of Andhi a Pradesh
in general and Vijayawada in particular to see a body of new experimental
work to be exhibited, under a common programme in the four South lndian
languages and hold discussions on them. as well. Such an exposure will be

a fascinating experience for many, but for the more serious segment of the
audience, the theatre festival will hopefully help in crystalising some of these
thoughts on styles of theatre which are indigenous in character and firmly

rooted in the lndian soil, both in inspiration and execution.
For the first time in Andhra Pradesh, the South Zone Theatre Festival this year
is being held from 8-l 4 October ’90 at Vijayawada in collaboration with the

South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur and Municipal Corporation,
Vijayawada.

The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has great pleasure in associating
itself with such a venture and in hosting the South Zone Theatre Festival l 990 which will help to promote the national cultural unity.

