' against their oppressors. There appears no end to their sorrows. One of
the. I
_ yoUng men among the refugees was ordered to be killed when he atta
cks

the masters who have raped the only virgin among the refugees. The young
refugee escapes. Just then the refugees happen to hear a passing street
singer singing about India’s Independence and the formation of a
democratic Government there. The song extols the merits of Ahimsa which

brought Indians freedom from British rule. This gives hope to the refugees
about their future. The youth, under orders of death, eager to learn how by
Ahimsa the weakest of the weak could resist the might of the repressors, an
d
also about the fruits of democracy, wishes to leave for India and return to

the grave camp with the knowledge of the new technique and if possible
with help from India. The others derive a lot of hope from it and expectan
tlv
look for his return .

३ DIRECTOR’S NOTE

.M. Kuruvammal

“Naayai-P-Parikodutthom” - that is the title of the play written in Tamil by Shri.
- S.ﬂ_§[irtivasart — a vetaran theatre person from T'amilnadu,Gandhigram.

' This play deals with the basic characteristics of mankind and tries to establish
the good old values of our traditional and Gandhian thoughts saying that
. good faith and love alone will bring peace and human dignity to ‘mankind'.
, In this play the dual personality of mankind - the tyrants and the suppressed:
and the meaningless conflict between them that never seems to end has
been portrayed. He draws the conclusion that violence cannot be con—
quered with any other form of violence. If the case is so then only violence

remains victories.
The hero who was a slave in the captivated camp escapes to free India to

_ learn the hidden strength of the weakest of the week and the nature of a
democratic Government.
This play mocks at the old history of the probabilities of pressure by the rulers
and fuaal system prevalent at that time. It also condemns the senseless act
of tyranny against any working class people throughout the globe, who are
the real backbones of the mankind.

sum it symbolism of dog as a faithful and lovable animal predominates
the play it is a simple narrative play that helps the masses to understand and
relisn the values.
I have chosen this simple and dynamic play which could be staged on a
open ground, Arena stage or proscenierm stage. It has got abundant
possibilities for improvisation. The nature of the play provides a great deal
of freedom to actors and the probabilities of creative possibilities of improvisation from one performance to another performance.

This play tends to be the outcome of group dynamism rather than strictly
K

