MAREECHIKA (TELUGU)
PRESENTATION : NAVODAYA ARTS AKADEMI

DIRECTION : G. UDAYA BHANU
‘MAREECHIKA’ in Telugu has the meaning of a mirage. it is often difficult to
realise the difference between ‘reality’ and ‘illusion’ . The transition offer
from illusion to ‘ disillusionment’ (reality and the consequent disappointment
through the different stages in life is unoticeably subtle. One becomes wise
only atier the event. Unless one passes a particular stage in life, one doe

not come to terms with the reality. Reality eludes us like a mirage
‘Mareechika’. This is the point made on the stage by Narada to a group 0

six young men and women presenting what resembles a ballet.

Their colleague, a pressrnan is the hero. The members of the chorus of
transformed into a group of politicians in serious discussion over raising part
funds. On the offer of a huge donation from a points manufacturer, the chie
among the politicians, obviously a minister. has an order issued that c
autorickshaws be painted with the paints of that manufacturer. Th
politicians quarrel over the sharing of the funds so secured. The party spli
into three different parties. The press reporter reports the exact discussior
in the paper. This enrages the politicians and they get the reporter sackei

He gets transferred as a punishment from his next job as a works supervisr
under a civil works contractor for questioning the irregularities of the cor
tractor and for exposing the projects which had been executed only 6
‘paper' and not in reality. The contractor gets his money for not executin
any work and the politicians including ministers are silenced by his bribe

They are like dogs whose barks are silenced by a few crumbs from tt
contractor. The press reporter explains away his transfer to his family as r‘ r
a transfer on promotion, in appreciation of his services. Another contract f

building houses for slum dwellers is given to the contractor. But a facto
started coming up in place of the site meant for houses for the slum dwelle
The slum dwellers were appeased by the offer of jobs in the new factory.
Election brings about a change cf Government. The new party in pow
again promises to construct a labour cotony, but an ‘ amusement park tak

its place. The police refuse to take the hero's complaint. The hero goes

the court Before the Judge could give his Judgement he was appointi
Governor. The hero approaches the Governor. Just as the Governor is abc
to question the :thy bosses about it, he is sent as a political observer to ii
And‘namans. The hero this time approaches the party high comma:
straight. He then gets the shock of his life and realises that he has been
along chasing mirages. He sees the party bosses, contractors, officials
playing cricket with a ball that is not seen. They ignore the hero. At one stOi
they shout to him to catch the ‘ball The hero wonders where the ball ls._l

just looks about for the ball that is not there. However, at length he catcl
‘the ball’ and throws it back to rhem. The chorus then throws the ball on
the spectaters. They sing that there is neither illusion nor mirage but only tiU

