MALAVIKAGNIMITRA (KANNADA)
A
G
A
H
B
I
V
A
G
N
A
R
;
N
O
I
T
A
T
N
E
S
E
PR
DIRECTION : B.R.V. All'ltAl.
The play MalaVikagnrmitra is an adaptation of Kalidsa's original. The purpose
is to focus attention on the present state of affairs in which we see a number
of so called ‘leaders' preoccupied with their selﬁsh interests and personal
aggrandisement ignore public welfare . which ultimately results in papular

discontent. while projecting the routine emotionalism of love. the play seeks
to highlight the lack of character and public concern among those who
presume to work for public welfare and do precious little in the process.

Agnimitra. King of Vrdisha, falls in love with Malovika and seeks Gautama’s
help in realising his ends Gautama contrives a situation in which Malovika is
to dance before the King. and reciprocates his passion for her. In sheer
jealousy. the two queens Dharini Devi and lravOttii have Malovika and her
companions imprisoned. But Gautama rescues Malovika by another trick.
Meanwhile the Ashoka tree to which Malovika has performed ‘Dohada'

blossoms. This makes Dharini Devi very happy. it is revealed further that
Malovika is a princess in disguise. There comes also the news of great victory
in a battle. A highly pleased Dharini Devi offers Malovika as a presentation
to the Kind during the celebrations of the victory.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE :
There are many leaders who, immerses in a totally personal world of material
pleasures and physical pursuits. have neglected the social and political
realities around them. giving rise to common discontent. The play

‘Malavikagnirnitra' shows this solar truth against a backdrop of the routine
emotionalism of love relationships. As such the play stands relevant even
today. needing only a few minor modifications.

३ As I had directed ‘Valivadhankam‘ in Sanskrit itself as an aviddha prayoga.
.i.e..‘a production in a forceful style. l now wanted to a try out a ‘Sukumara’
' (Graceful) prayoga in Kannada. For this experimentation. l have drawn
largely from the traditional and classical theatre forms which I have seen
and studied. l have here tried to evolve a meaningful 'and' functional
Synthesis of the techniques. movement, speech and acting patern

delineated in the Natyashastra and Yakshagano. Kodiyattarn etc.

“
a
५२

CAST

Sutradhara
Shishya
Ganadasa
Haradatta

. Agnimitra
Vrdushaka
किं

Nagendra C. Shastri
Vishwanatha M. Hogde
Venkataramana V. Bhat
Nagendra M. Hegde

Venk'at’aramana N. Shastri
Gajanano T. phat

