THE PUNJABI THEATRE lS TWENTY-FIVE YEAR OLD
by Gurcharan Singh Jasuja

Just as Punjabi drama owes its origin to the late Prof. lshwar
Chand Nanda, the Punjabi stage was also established by him under the
inSpiration of the late Mrs. Norah Richards. Nanda's play ”Subhadra"

was staged by the dramatic club of the Government College, Lahore for
the first time in 1913. Later Nanda’s plays “Subhadra” and “War-Ghar"
were staged at a number of places through Nanda’s initiative.
The Little Theatre GrOUp was established in Lahore before the

partition of the coUntry. Among Punjabi dramatists who joined this
organisation was Gurdial Singh Khosla. Some of his one-act plays were
staged by this GrOUp. At Amritsar 3.3. Arnol's 'Punjabi Natak Sabha'
was active at this time. This organisation staged all of Nanda’s plays
and first efforts of Harcharan Singh. Following this Harcharan Singh
established his own GrOUp for staging his plays.

The third centre of the

Punjabistage was Preet Nagar where plays of Balwant Gargi and Sheila
Bhatia were staged.
In November 1949 a drama festival was organised in Delhi and
this attracted performing grOUpS from Delhi and as far distant as
Southern India. By that time many Punjabis who had migrated from

Pakistan had settled down in Delhi. The absence of a punjabi drama
group from this festival which was going to be held in a city where
Punjabi pOpulation was large provoked Gurdial Singh Khosla to organise
a grOUp and prepare a few short plays. Punjabi drama was thus
represented in the festival. The plays presented by this group were

widely acclaimed and thus a new organisation called the “Punjabi
Theatre" came into being.
The establishment of the Punjabi Theatre was the heralding of a
new age in the history of Punjabi stage. lts existance in the Capital
attracted the attention of Punjabi dramatists and lovers of Punjabi
drama. The Punjabi Natak Sabha of Amritsar was given a new lease of
life by 3.3. Amol. Gurcharan Singh Jasuja was appointed Secretary and
this Sabha regularly staged 2 or 3 one-act plays every month for a

number of years.

At Simla, Dina Nath Zutshi and Prof. Arnrik Singh

staged a few Punjabi plays. At Jullundur the All-India Radio broadcast
a few plays under the leadership of Kartar Singh Dugal._ At the Khalsa
College, Amritsar Sant Singh Sekhon started the “Punjab: Nat Mandrr"
and staged some of his own plays.
The Punjabi Theatre which in 1949 had stirred up the stagnant
waters of {Punjabi drama has now completed twenty-five years. It IS a

matter of joy that this organisation is celebrating ltS Silver-jublree from
December 9 to 21.

During these twenty-five years the Punjabi Theatre

