has, under theileadership of its founder G.S. Khosla, staged many plays
in Delhi, Bombay, Simla, Jullundur and Calcutta and has thus laid the
fou 1 tions of an all- India Punjabi theatre movement. Apart from

Khos a's playsgthe Punjabi Theatre has also presented the work of other
leading Punjabi dramatists, among whom are Prof. Nanda, Balwant Gargi,
Kartar Singh Dugal, Harcharan Singh, Arnrik Singh‘and Gurcharan Singh
Jasuja. Thus Khosla has tried to bring the entire Punjabi drama under
the umbrella of the Punjabi Theatre.
In these twentyfive years the Punjabi stage has made commend-

able progress. Dr. Harcharan Singh, Kapur Singh Ghuman, Harpal
Tiwana, R.G. Anand, Sheila Bhatia, Gursharan Singh and Prem Jullundri

have also contributed to the deveIOpment of a Punjabi stage. :Among
these the activities of Gursharan Singh and Prern Jullundri need special
mention because they represent two diverse tendencies in the development of the Punjabi stage. The Amritsar Natak Kala Kendra of Gursharan
Singh has tried to bring within its purview all of Punjabi dramatic literature and his strength lies in his deliberate choice of such works which

give a lead in social and political reform. On account of his preOCCUpation with human values he some times reaches the limit of prOpaganda.
On the other hand Prern Jullundri has succeeded in establishing a cornrnercial theatre in Delhi. He presents only such plays in which sex and

laUghter predominate. These plays attract crowds but do not help in
any way in raising the standard of the art of Punjabi drama.
In these circumstances when commercial theatre is having its

heyday in Delhi the celebrations of the silver jubilee of the Punjabi
Theatre assume added importance because it has always been the Ideal

of this organisation that the dramatic art could be used to bring about
social awakening among the peOpIe and to enrich their lives by rarsrng

their standard of appreciation so that the Spectators should not only
enjoy themselves but also _ benefit from the lead offered by what they
see on the stage. This precrsely IS the aim of great art.

A number of distinguished drama grOUps have been invited from
all over India
will present
merit and set
been set Up

to take part in the drama festival and it is hOped that it
before the Spectators in the Capital Punjabi plays of high
a new standard for the Punjabi stage. A_ Committee has
to supervise the silver jubilee celebrations. Among its

members are Shri Gurdial Singh Dhillon, Speaker, Lok Sabha, Shri
|.K. Gujral, Minister of lnforrnation and Broadcasting, Shri Hans Raj
Sharma, Finance Minister Punjab, tnree Members of Parliament, namely

Shri Arnar Nath Vidyalankar, Giani Gurmukh Singh Musafflr and 'Shri
Mohinder Singh Gill, three Vice-Chancellors namely Shri Klrpal Singh
Narang, Shri Bishan Singh Samundri and Prof._.R.C. Paul and the wellknown Punjabi writer and film producer Shri Rajrnder Slr'lgh Bedr.
८….०. ८८ क्या

