TH E PUNJABI THEATRE
“The first planned and systematic attempt made to create a Punjabi stage
was in 1949 at Delhi with the founding of the Punjabi Theatre by G.S.
Khosla, led by him. a few amateurs, who had been actively participating in
play-acting and production for some years at Lahore before the partition of
the Indian subcontinent, and later at Delhi. formed themselves into a new

society".

'

‘-

from “INDIAN DRAMA” Publications Division,
Ministry of lnforrnation 8 Broadcasting
The chief aim of the Punjabi Theatre is to promote a Punjabi stage in the
Metropolis and elsewhere. and thereby provide a cultural forum. from which
Punjabis, scattered all over this subcontinent, and others interested in the
stage, can derive pleasure and enlightenment
The Punjabi Theatre endeavours to use the highly potent and artistic medium of the stage for increasing social awareness, for promoting a fuller life and towards a general
advancement of the people.
The F unjabi Theatre has been in the ﬁeld for a quarter of a cen'ury and has been
working towards the development of the Punjabi stage
It has presented the
work of all the leading Punjabi playwrights since it was founded in 1949. The
activ. ties of the Punjabi Theatre have also extended to other places namely
Simla, Jullundur, Chandigarh. Calcutta and Bombay.
In 1951 The Punjabi Theatre participated in the Republic Day Pageant orga-

nized by Government in Delhi and contributed a tableau depicting Maharaja
Ranjit Singh's Darbar. In the following years. it presented a scene from
rural Punjab and a Punjabi wedding in the Cultural Pageant of 26th January.
The Punjabi Theatre has presented a number of plays during the last 25 years
in Delhi, Jullundur, Simla, Calcutta, Bombay and Chandigarh. lt organised
the Golden Jubilee of the modern Punjabi stage in December, 1964. The

Punjabi Theatre did pioneering work in 1952 when it produced three plays
written specially for and acted by children.

The Punjabi Theatre was invited by the Sixth All India Punjabi Writer's Conference held in New Delhi in March 1973 to present their play ’Umidvar‘

as a

part of their cultural programme.

Lovers of theatre are invited to become members of the Punjabi Theatre.
Annual subscription Rs. 10 per head, enterance fee Rs. 5. Life Members

Rs . 1 0 O .
Festival
Silver Jubilee Celebrations Drama

Admission will be by invitation for Members only.

Enrolment of members

will start at the All lndia Fine Arts and Crafts Society from 8th Dec. 1974.
:
Correspondance should be addressed to
D— 103, Defence Colony,
New Delhi—110024.

Karen Singh
Jomt Secretary

