The “Punjabi Theatre” Comes of Age
by Gurnam Soni

V

Founded in 1949, the Punjabi theatre matures into its Silver Jubilee celebration in
December I974.
I he story of the Punjabi stage streaks back to prepartition Lahore when in 1914.
Shri I. C Nanda. the Ibsen of Punjabi theatre. staged his plays -Dulhan. Subhadra and Bebe
Ram Bhajni and created a cultural forum for provocative thinking. In his plays, he directs
the attention of the elite to the burning social issuses of the day and pleads for a change in
attitude towards women in social letters. Shri I C Nanda was poineer in playwriting and
theatre productions of stark realism. His signiﬁcant contribution marked the beginnings of
Punjabi theatre.
The Nanda wave brought out young playwritters into the ﬁeld. The stage got
impetus and the movement spread its wings. Norah Richards was the gaint impulse in the
theatre. But it was in the thirties that the theatre activity gained momentum in the hands
of young playwright- — Shri G. S. Khosla “Buhe Bahthi Dhi” was the beginning of an
organised effort. In here, he exposes a problem faced by the middle classes of ﬁxing up
their daughters in marriage. He protrays living characters realistic situations and problems
that enganed the minds of his contemporaries.
But a systematic growth of the stage was seen in the establishment of the L. T. G. at
Lahore in 1946. Shri Khosla was the architect and it's very ﬁrst Chairman. Partition
scattred the theatre elite all over the country. The Punjabi stage crumbled.
It was in I949, that Shri Khosla managed to collect the scattered colleagues and
initiated the re-establish ment of the amateur theatre at Delhi. He was so involved in the
theatre activity, that he took upon himself besides acting and writing, the organisation of

a new group.
Though under Western influence, Shri Khosla knew the best expression and experience

can only be recorded in the mother tongue.

So, he took to writing in Punjabi.

The themes

he chose. were topical, refugee problem is the core of his play —— Be-ghare, Murde-daRation picks on the food problem. In fact he has a knack to pickon a topic. In Parlo
TON PAIHLE he deals with the population problem, in Umid var, elections draw his attention
while in his latest play, he chooses to expose the problem of unbridled growth of skyscrapers at the cost of human existance.
All these plays — staged in Calcutta, Bombay and in the Punjab became the torch —
bearers of the Punjabi stage. As Punjabi opera is synonymous with Sheila shatra, Punjab
stage is synonymous with Shri G. S khosla. Wherever he goes, he carries the flame of the
stage with him.
His continuous efforts towards the development of the punjabi stage, have brought to
limelight playwrights like Balwant Gargi, Amrik Singh, K. S Duggal and R. G, Anand.
He has encouraged young producers to experiment With new ideas for the punjabi stage in

Delhi and in Punjab.
Dr. Mohan Singh “ Diwana” records Shri Khosla’s signiﬁcant contribution in such
words as: “Much of realistic art is both sordid and ugly. Khosla’s high realism is a
revelation of both beauty and signiﬁcance. His art sails and ﬂies close to the seas and
mountains of life, wherefore one ﬁnds in his plays all the joy and the misery, the compassion

and the cruelty, which make of our day-to-day liVing such a baﬁiing and yet intriguing
medley”.

'

The ﬁrst planned and systematic attempt in I 949 to create _ a punjabi stage at Delhi
was made by Shri G. S. Khosla now culminating it the Silver Jubilee celebrations. and the
celebrations are also initiated by Shri Khosla. In his continous efforts, the direction ‘of the

punjabi stage is ' clearly marked.

