नटरंग

८ UMIDV—AR ०

न्नदृ'हँष्ठादे

Excerpts from Press Review2:?“ \\\ >C
From Times of India dated 4-4—I972

.

‘ ""

_

.

Delightful Satire on Politics

' "

'

Vi

‘7
..

New Delhi, April 3: G. S. Khosla’s new Punjabi play. “Umidvar” presented by
Punjabi Theatre last evening is a delightful satire on our politics. The play is built around
the election scene in which a candidate even before the count begins dreams of ministership.
Khosla delivers beﬁtting jibes at the malpractices that have come to be associated with what
may be called horse-trading in electioneering.
The most gratifying aspect of "Umidvar” is its clean humour. In the last two or
three years the Punjabi plays that have been seen on the. Delhi stage have leaned heavily on
vulgar speech to win a cheap applause. Khosla’s ‘Umidvar” and “Murde Da Ration”
-the second play of the evenig - are a timely reminder that real Punjabi hamour is not

.

crude nor vulgar.
From Indian Express dated 4—4—1972
Refreshing Punjabi Plays

There is a considerable body of opinion in North India which shows that even the
plays
former protagonists of Punjai drama have come to the sad conclusion that writing of
Some
in this language has no future. Whatever possibilities existed have by now vanished.
Punjabi playwrights, like Balwant Gargi think that the language does not lend itself to
.
theatre and It is futile to make an attempt even;
Against this background it was a refreshing change to see on Sunday evening two short

plays in Punjabi written by G. S. Khosla and sponsored by Punjabi ”Theatre , at the Sapru
House hall

S. Khosla may not be a powerful writer of plays but he is certainly a very
the
sensitive observer. His lines have a crispness and there is something very lively about
atrnospherethat he is able to create.
G

which he
The second play Umidvar which G. S. Khosla has Written recently and
too showed greater
directed himself. was much more eﬁective and constructionallv.

maturity.

al
One of the notable qualities of Khosla’ s plavs is his flair for simnle colloqui

In Punjabi is still not
When the lines are spoken well it just shows that theatre
.
is at a loss to understand why
such deadwood as some would have us believe. in fact one

language

some well-known playwrights have discontinued writing 1“ Punjabi
Umidvar is a very effective satire on electioneering,
the heartbreaks that it brings in its wake for some.

shortly
The Punjabi Theatre will revive this play

its attendant 'rnalpractlces and

