__‘ F'——— ओं

CLASSICAL STEPS
J हैं /

Message in
a blossom
A dance company based in Singapore has choreographed the varied signiﬁcance of lotus in many cultures and civilisations.
SUREKHA iMDAPA—BOSE talksto the creative minds at the helm of the bharatanatyam production

Flower power
Alapadmu presentsthe unfoldng ofa 1०ms and explores a few aspects of the
flowersuch as Sn'rltri Sarnnja(signifying
creation). Pada Parrlmja (mythology)
a Kamala (rornance).AlankaamAm
buja (iconography) and Saharmm Padnmm (human wisdom). The aspects are
choreographed to the lyrics chosen
rom Alwar Pasumm, Kambd Ramayanam and Abhiltaya Dalpamz
slakar: verses from the Bhagamum; and the poetry of
Bharathiyaar and contemporary
Poe is.
The intriguing bit about the
dance is that lotus is presented
notjust as theflower that indians perceive. but as seen inother countries like Egpr Singapore.China. Iran etc in their
reltg'orts and civilisations.
The performance began with the explov
ration of an ancient

Egyptian belief. It showed tlte beginning
where the waters of chaos were cover
by darkness until the primeval blue water-lotus rose frorn the abyssand opened
irspemlstoievealthestmgodseated
in its resplendent golden heart.
As the lotus closed its petals at
the end of each day, chaos
reigned throughout the
_
night until the god within
'\
returned.
.

—>-p-\

hey came. tltey performed, they
conqueredf This is an apt de5 c r ipt io n of the SI nga por ebased dance company Apsara
Arts. which recently toured
South India with A/apadma. their pro
duction. They ttnpressed not only the
audience. but also the connoisseurs of
lndian classicaldance forms. The troupe
waselegant and professional. anddidn't
strike a single note of discord throughout the performance.
“As such all the dancers have
had manyyears of training.
Apart of their individual
_
training background,they are
३~
selected to perform forthe
company through a strict au~
ditton. They are professional
bhamtanatynm artistesand
perform eitheras soloisrsor
as partof an ensemble. like
the onewhich performed
Alapadnm,“ evplatned Aravinth Kumamsarny. the cre
at'rve and managing directorof
the dance company.

(राम/हारा-गु.""]

OF A LOTUS AND

दुगु) , FLOWER...

In the Pummzs. Vishnu and Brahma late S Sadtyaﬁngam. amusician, founded
are considered the ideal creator and the Ap‘sara Arts way back in 1977.we had 20
practical creator. respectively. The lotus students to begin witlt. Over the years.
is believed to be the centre of the uni- we havetrained many students, who are
verse. arising frorn the navel of Vishnu. now in differentparts oftheworld teachand at the centre ofthe flower sits Brail- ing and performing. ’I‘oday, Apsara Arts
rna. the creator of the world. So in the has becorrte a professional company. fonext segmentofAlnpadma. the choreog- cussing on creating new works at both
raphy illustrated this bit of mythology national and international festivals. corthrough selected verses from the Pantr- porate events and seasonal performanc<
am: by the revered tht-cenrury Vaishna~ es." explained the 78~year~old.
va saint, Periyalvar.
Neila Satyalingam is a Sri Lankan
This story about lotus was researched 'I‘arnilian by birth. She perfected her
fora couple of years before the selection dance tec iques when she trained unof appropriate Page and dancers to rep der the l e Rukmini Devi Arundale,
resent each aspectof the story, of course. known as the revivalist of [)lmmr~
the professronalisrn of the dancers naryam add who founded Chennaihelped. All the performers aren'tneces- based Kalakhestra. art academy of
sarilytrained by Guru Neila Satyalingam. dance and music. built on the princithe founder of the dance academy. ples of Indiangurulrula system.
Though the dancers are residents of SiriNeila later married Sathyalingam,
gapore.their placeof birtlt or dance trainsort 0 a ri
ing could be elsewhere. But they all cortLankan politigregate at Apsara Arts for a decided
cian. who was
performance.
a teacher of
“Singapore is a hub of Indian
triusic at
classical dances and dancers.
Kal akshetra.
Every prestigious school and colElaborating
lege has classical dance classes
on heracade> 7 my, she-Said:' —
and well-trained dance teachers?*‘ v—
When I. along with my husband.

“Thanks to our Kalakshetra pedigree.
Apsara Arts is now seen as a leading
dance institution known for innovative
bhrzmtanaryant productions. We have
collaborated dance forms of India. Iridonesia. Cambodia. Thailandand Cltina. We havealso started to present experimental work based oti kat/mk from
the Lucknowghurmta."
Past ina performance
Infact. one of their productions of2013.
Angkor. which recreated the story of
Khmer (Cambodia) ofthe 12th century.
was a tnarmnotlt production that cost
millions. The audience was completely
mesrnerised, and those who watched it
still talk about it. ‘To restage that performance. wewould need litany big sponsors. That was really impressive, gorgeous and absolutely fascinating.
Everyone including us was left speechless after the performance!" recalled the
founder.
Both Neila and Aravinthan are not at
all apprehensive ofthe invasion of satellite television and escalating popularity
of Indian filtn tttusic oti classical dance
८…. of
.
forms. They feel that all artmallwmuy
the chosen art from.
The bhammazyamdance maestro said,
“B/mmrunatyam artistes ntust make efforts to build audience by reaching out
to newer members and to ta e
bhmumnatyam to youngergenerations.
It’s important to focus on innovating
performances with newer thoughtsand
ideas to provide a learning experience
forthe audience.Alapadnm. likeour other productions. attemptsto create curiosity in the audience aboutAsian cultures.
while also letting them enjoy blurrinrmlyam and Carnatic music."

FLORAL UNFOLDING
Dance formations of the
production 'Alapadma‘ by
Apsara Arts, whichrecently
toured South India,

