, दृ हूस्मृष्टआरास्ता MIRROR
l
1. BrechtiarL Mirror “is”; reputed, recognised (Regd. 8/6089) theatre organisation,
based in Delhi since 1970 which has presented many notable productions by famous
playwrights of international fame. The main objective of this group has been to
promote epic theatre to the Indian public. Since its inception it has produced 27 major
productions, and has been received very well by the public and the critics alike.

We

are the group who first gave idea to open basement theatre at Shri Rant Centre for

Arts and Culture.

We set up an example by doing the Brecht's Life of Galileo Galiei

in basement since then the basement theatre a new approach to theatre is in existence.

We are the group who first introduced Epic Style which is an advanced form of folk
theatre in India as well as in Germany.

2.

For our pioneering work in theatre, we have been receiving regular grants from the

Ministry of Education since 1979, and from Sangeet Natak Akaderni since 1975.
Our production of Bertolt Brecht's THE RESISTABLE RISE OF ARTURO Ul, The life
of Galileo in Hindustani was sponsored by Max Mueller Bhawan, New Delhi, and by

the Trade Fair Authority of India. The historical production ELECTRA BY EURIPIDES,
Brecht's Schweik Maidan E Jang Mein, Mahasweta Devis, SHRI GANESH MAHIMA

and Agni Garbh (contemporary play) and lpheganea in Aulis (in Hindi), Madhu
Kanthi Saanp by Majoj Mitra, Bacchae by Euripidis (Greek play in Hindi) we produced
very successfully.

WHY KASHMIR
that it is the only place where
Kashmir is a unique state in India in the sense
like everywhere else in the country
Muslims are in a large majority. Here the majority,
enough calling it an act of self preserhas taken a chauvanistic attitude, strangely

attitude and if it does
Does a majority necessarily have to take an aggressive
vation.
community in different parts of the
what are the other people belonging to the same
country expected to do ?

emn
For some reason no body is ready to openly cond

the rise of fundamentalism in Kashmir.

Our effort is to create an awareness that

r picture, a picture which
religlous ferver, whatever may be Its colour will paint a simila
Is horifying and grim.

