BlB I Z AIN AB
er of Prophet
BIBI ZAINAB, THE ideal of Surnan was the Grand daught
n her brother when he
Mohammad. She and her two sons accompanied Imam Hussai
. lrnarn Hussain was not
went to Shaarn to talk to Yazeed, the self styled Caliph
ce would incite a public
allowed to reach Shaam, Since Yazeed feared that his presen
fight a battle in which
uprising. Imam Hussein was stopped at Karbala and forced to

's two minor
he himself with all the male members of his Caravan including Bibi Zainab
sons were killed.
the other
BIBI ZAINAB, the eldest amongst the women was taken to Shaarn with
Being refused
women where she pleaded for the body of her slain brother and sons.
she came out to the centre of the city and is said to given a firey speech describing the
events of karbala and the slaying of innocents. This speech caused an uprising against
the cruel Yazeed who was first forced to flee and then later killed by the

following

anny.

A SY N OPS I S

N EE L A NJ AN A SU M AN
The play projects how self seeking business men masquerade themselves as
patriots and controlling the reigns of governance drive the common mass into destitutions. They convert every nobler aspect of human life into commodities that can be
sold or purchased. It is this mentality that pulls the world to the brink of war.

In our adaptation we have chosen the locale of Kashmir which is at present the
focus of not just the rest of India but also of the rest of the world.

years from now.

deteriorates ?
over.

The time is five

What will happen if the present state of affairs continues or further

With a weak centre as we have in India things can be expected to boil

What then will be the outcome, is what the play is all about.

On the highway from Jammu to Srinagar is situated a small picturesque town

Batot.

Mehere Gulsitan is a two star motel in aBtot owned by the Abbasi family.

The entire Kashmir is torn by anarchy, riots and fears of a direct war with the neighbou rs.

In this motel works a young girl Suman, whose brother is on the front. Haider
Abbasi the owner of the motel gives a book on the life of Bibi Zainab, describin gher

