SUI‘TH “‘()\‘li 'I‘llli.-\'I"Rl-L liliS'I‘lVXlll‘MS

l८

--

(l

~ ९
l

,… ]

The South lone Theatre Festival (Natya Samaroh 1988)
forms part of the programme ‘Scheme for assistance to Young
Theatre Workers’ envisaged and launched by the Sangeet Natak
Akademi, New Delhi. The programme is operated on the basis
of State_wise divisions of the country into four zones.

The broad objective of the programme is to support and
sustain the creative efforts and energies of young enterprising
theatre workers with a View to helping the experimental
segment of the theatre activities. This was sought to be achieved
by encouraging young directors to take up experimental
productions which seek inspiration in the traditional/folk
sscro
ic
ist
art
of
s
ces
pro
a
h
ug
ro
th
s
thu
and
ms,
for
e
atr
the
fertilisation with modern sensibilities help contemporary
theatre assimilate the heritage of the past. There is ample
evidence to indicate the existence of such theatre activity
involving serious effort by many theatre workers, both
established and not so established.

But the lack, however

of adequate resources to support such work_being primarily
of an experimental nature involving high financial and artistic
risks-makes it expedient that this potential and fruitful
activity should receive sustenances on a continuing basis.
Competent and experienced individual theatre directors and
their groups are identified and those selected are offered substantial financial assistance to cover the cost of the productions.

The South Zone Festival will enable the theatre lovers of
Kerala in general and Calicut in particular to see a body
of new experimental work originating under a common
programme in different language areas of the country, Viz.
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and hold

discussions on them as well. Such an exposure will be a
fascinating experience for many, but for the more serious
segment of the audience, the Theatre Festival will hopefully

help in crystalising some of these thoughts on styles of theatre
which are indiegenous in character and firmly rooted in the
Indian soil, both in inspiration and execution.

The Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi has great pleasure
in getting associated with such a venture and in hosting the
South Zone Theatre Festival- 88 which will help to promote
the national cultural unity.

