August 22nd 1988
Ra . . . . . . . . Ma . . . . . . . . . a play in Malayalam
Presented by : Natakayogam, Trivandrum
Directed by :
K. chhu.
SYNOPSIS

Karmalan the great creator, invokes Agni, the Godess
of fire, and seeks blessings: He then starts the process of
creation. Coming to know of the creative work of Karmalan,
the ‘Creatures of the Night’ intrude and try to distract him
from the ritual. Agni is all along with him. Since the
Creatures are scared of Agni, they withdraw and wait for
the fire to subside so that they can dissuade Karmalan from
his creative endeavour. Karmalan creates Ahalya, a eharming
damsel and for a while marvels at his own creation. Agni
too appears pleased. Avakasi enters and is enraptured by the
beauty of Ahalya. He declares that everything beautiful
belongs to him, But Karmalan refuses to accept the claim.
As Avakasi remains adament, Karmalan asks him to prove
himself by winning the customary test. Avakasi fails in it.
Thereupon Karmalan directs Goutama, his disciple to rescue
his creation. Gautarna wins the test. Karmalan give Ahalya in
marriage to Gautama. Avakasi, all shamed, leaves the scene
resolving to do revenge on Karmalan.

The Creatures of the Night conspire to separate
Karrnalan from Agni. They succeed in their attempt. The
fall of Karmalan is celebrated by the Creatures. They befriend the revengeful AvakaSJ and plot with him to continue
the acts of ruin. [nstigated by the creatures, Avakasi disguises himself as Gautarna and approaches Ahaly a. As he
makes amorous advances to her, G autama returns. Mistaking
her to have sinned, he is shocked and shamed. The creatures
again celebrate their victory in ecstasy. it is the victory
of darkness over light.
Gautarna drags Ahalya to Karmalan. Finding the
creator all lost and the whole place in a mess, Gautama 6011cludes that it is all due to Ahalya’s sin. l‘le curses Ahalya.
Soon after, Bhoorni Matha (Mother Earth) appears and exposes the conspiracy of the Creatures. Gautama prays for
Agni’s help. As advised by Agni, Gautama assumes the role
of ‘Rama’ and Confronts the powers of darkness. The creatures are vanquished; Karmalan regains his creative energy
and Ahalya her life. All join hands and sing hymns hailing
Agni, the Devine Fire.
D I R ECT O R ’ S N OTE

The truimph of virtue over vice is what I try to communicate through this play.

Light symbolises the good in man. As long as it is in
his mind and translated into action. the darkness of evil
cannot conquer him. But if vice gets the upper hand, man
is bound to ruin. So also is the case with the land.

