Man commits sin with a dark soul. But when the soul
is cleansed through repentance, virtue again dawns on him.
Thus darkness is wiped out, and life attain light again.
I have tried to project the basic impulse \f the characters
through their dealings and doings, catching them in a human
condition and arriving at a synthesis of words, deeds and
movement-patterns. A lot of improvisation has gone into
the play based on my interpretation of the text vis-a-vis the
artistes and characters. I have also derived inspiration from
our traditional artforms in terms of style, acting, energy
and aesthetic innovation.
( मृ .'\ S T & CREDITS

1 Karmalan : Venukuttan, 2 Agni : Chandini, 3 Srishti:
Geetha,

4 Avakasi : Rasheed,

5 Goutaman : Sudhakaran

6 Bhoomi Matha : Remani, 7 Rakolangal I : Mahesh, 8 Rakolangal II : Aloncier, 9 Rakolangal III : Shabeer, 10 Rakolangal
IV : Naveen, 11 Rakolangal V : Reghupathi, 12 Rakolangal VI
: Venugopal, 13 Rakolangal VII : Raja Mohanan, l4 Ranga
Palakar I : Prasannakumar, 15 Ranga Palakar II : Suresh,
l6 Ranga l’alakar III : Suresh Kumar. l7 Ranga Palakar IV:
Lal, BACK STAGE ARTISTES 1 Stage : Vijayachandran,
2 Light : Santhosh Kumar, 3 Make - up ईष्ट Costumes : Sasi
4 Music I : Raghavan Nair, 5 Music II 1 Bala
Kumar
chandran, 6 Music III : Radhakrishnan 7 Troup Manager :
Sasi Kumar. R., 8 Director : K. Reghu.
N A T A K A रै ' ( ) G A M

Based in Trivandrum, NATAKAYOGAM is a theatre
ensemble that has been functioning for the last seventeen
years. It is Natakayogam that introduced ‘Street Plays’ and
"Theatre in the open space’ in Kerala. In concept and execution, it has initiated several new trends in Malayalam
Natakayogam stresses the
drama with heartening results.
significance of action-oriented plays. In the sphere of dramatic training, Natakayogam has been very active, evolving
new methods of study and practice and conducting theatre
workshops periodically. The credit for formulating a modern
training process and producing plays as its extension also
goes to Natakayogam.
We frequently conduct the following activities,

also

Two to
‘play-week’ of various productions are of one.
seven consequative days of performance tours to villages
in our own instinct. Theatre exhibitions both in rural and
urban areas, "I‘errace-theatre’ to make performance between
the artists of Natakayogam and the theatre-lovers of the
different walks of life etc.
To sum up,

NATAKAYOGAM aims at a new Theatre

concept and culture in its pure form.

