August 23rd I988
Bomrnalaata a play in Telugu
Presented by : Kala jyothsna, Visakhapatanam
Writter by : Nadiminti Narasingarao
.)irected by : L. Satyanand

1 st S C E N I77. SYNOPSIS

As per the story, a young writer with the ideals of
exposing the attrocities committed by the politicians to the
detriment of people, who voted them to power, happens to
see a puppet show, in which the mythological story of
‘MOHINI BHASMASURA’ was played. Immenser impressed with the show, it strikes to the writer that this art of

puppetry could as well be effectively utilised for presenting
the present-day problems of the society. He, therefore,
approaches Sivaiah, the leading personolity of the puppetry
show and prevails upon him to modernise his puppets so as
to ensure a revival of the art and also livelihood for his
troup. Strangely, at this point of time, one of the senior
members of the pupperty group commits suicide due to
starvation. This incident makes Sivaiah to compromise for
the modernisation of his puppets. But there will be modern
characters. A dream in which the puppets would revolt and
opt for the change.

I Ind SCENE SYNOPSIS

However, Sivaiah with the help of the writer could
mould the traditional puppets into modern characters and a
play with the title of ‘VARAKATNA BHAGOTAM’ would
be prepared and exhibited, which depicts the actual story of
a political leader, who takes advantage of his daughter-inlaw’s dowry-death, for his political advancement. This play
makes the people realise the true colours of the political leader,
who finally ventures even to end the life of Sivaiah. Meanwhile,
an enquiry ordered against the politician by the Government
would lead to his dismissal and thereby the writer could
achieve his object of bringing the hidden truth about the
politician to limelight.
To sum up, the idea of bringing life to the fading art of
puppetry could be achieved by adopting it to the play, to
suit modern situations and in providing solutions for them.

DIRECTOR’S N ()T E :

a)

In this play a basic innovation is the literary style and
the presentational mode of the ancient puppet

play

