which is slowly dying out due to lack of patronage and
the onslaught of the other mass media of entertainment.
However, the puppet shows are still popular with the
uneducated rural folks. The basic testual and presentational mode of the puppet play has been adopted to a
stage play .

b)

The stylistic approach of the play approximates the
puppet show with suitable adaptations made for stage
presentations. The artistic thrust of presentation is
towards dealing with modern social problems with an
inter mixture of the traditional mileau and contemporary
society in its rural background.

c)

As stated earlier the folk form most used in Bommalaata
or the rod puppet play which is an ancient traditional
form. It has been used to treat modern themes and the
actors will simulate the movements and expressions of
the puppets to convey the content of the play. First a
segment of a traditional story is enacted by the actors in
the puppet mode and then in the next act they will
present a contemporary theme in contemporary dress.
However, both the episodes will be thematically linked.

d)

The play deals with two contemporary subjects. The
first one being the arrodance of power and corruptionmainly political corruption by which those in power try
to exploit the very people who elected them to office.
The second problem is the evil of dowry which is an
economic and social one.

e)

An attempt is made in this play to restructure the movement of the actor on the stage to simulate the movement
of a puppet. The presentational mode has been adapted
from the traditional puppet show.

( ] A S T A N D CREDITS
1

Sutradharudu Sivayya : Dr. G. B. Rama Krishna Sastry,

2

Sishyudu Ganapathi 2 K. K. Satyanarayana, 3 YuvakaVi :

J. Chittaranjan Das,

4 Allatappayya : Sarma, 5 Bhasmasu-

rudu/Rajakeeyanayakudu :

M. VenkataRao,

6

Vigneswa-

rudu I P. Baburao, 7 Bangarakka : Sarika, 8 Kethigadu :
Y. SarveswaraRao, 9 Sivadu/Pellikoduku : Muthyalarao,
10 Vishnuvu/Dora : P. Chandrasekhar, 11 Mohini/Pelliko—
turu : Kurn. P. Savithri, 12 PellikuturuTandri :
I. V.
Subbarao, 13 Roudi 1 : M. Venkateswarulu, 14 Roudi 2 .
Sanyasi Rao, 15 Stage Manager : A. Anthony, 16 Lighting :

