August 24th 1988
.\bhignana Shakuntala a Play in Kannada
Presented by : Mallika, Bangalore
Written 8; Directed by : Ashok Badardinni
S रै ' N O I) S I S

The history of Sanskrit drama which owes its origin to
Ashwaghosha, dates back to more than a thousand years.
During this long period, playwrights of exceptional calibre
like Bhasa, Bhavabhoothi, Sudhraka, Sri Harsha, Vishakha-

datta and Kalidasa stands out as the Supreme poet-playwright
among them. His ABHIGNANA SHAKUNTALA is considered to be the gem of all Sanskrit plays.
ABHIGNANA SHAKUNTALA, a play in 8 Acts, is a

beautiful story of Love between Dushyantha and Shakuntala.
Dushyantha, the king of Hastinapura, goes for hunting

and comes to the hermitage of sage Kanua, and was smitten
with Love with Shakuntala, ‘Kanua’s foster daughter. On
the plea of warding off demons who were obstructing Yaga
was over Dushyantha had to leave for the Capital. Gaandharva
type of marriage takes place between Dushyantha and
Sakuntala and he gave her a Royal ring in token of the
marriage and leaves for the Capital.

Sakuntala, in her day dreams about Dushyantha, fails to
notice the sage Doorvasa and neglects to welcome him. This
sage curses her to the effect that her husband should forget
her. On her humble pleading, the sage blessess her that her
Lover will recognise her only after seeing any gift given by
him during Gaandharva marriage.

Kanua come to know the episode and when Shankuntala
was pregnant, he sends her to the King Dushyantha.
Because of the curse of Doorvasa, Dushyantha forgets
her and drives her out of palace. She could not show the
Royal ring as it was lost in the river.
The ring lost by Shakuntala reaches the hands of
Dushyantha through a fisherman and Dushyantha was
reminded of Shakuntala.

Dushyantha visits Indraloka on an invitation by Lord
Indra to destory demons. On his way back he happens
to see a Pretty boy playing with Lion cubs at Marichashrama.
With the ‘Peacock episode’ he comes to know that the pretty
boy was none other than his own son and by chance
Shakunthala comes to take her son and sees king Dushyantha
who appologises her and they were happily reunited in the
presence of sage Maricha.
DI R l€(‘.'I'( ) R ’ S N ( ) 'I‘ E

At the outset the reason for my selecting 'ABHIGNANA
SHAKUNTALA’ is that it is a classical play. It is a
masterpiece among Kalidasas’ drama. I have a fascinating
image about this drama right from the days of my studies
at National School of Drama. I am giving a shape to
my imagination in your festival. It is true that this drama
is an erotic sentiment. But for me it is different. More than a

