August 25th 1988
KADAV'UL a play in Tamil
Presented by : Yedhu, Madras
\‘i'ritten by : N. Muthuswamy
Directed by : M. Natesh

S रै’ N ( ) P S l S
Act I

A Scientist creates a modern man to clean the sewers of
the country. Against the stench of the sewers the smell of
Sandalwood is liberated from his body. The Scientist has
received a sum of a crore Rs. from the Chief Minister.
The Chief Minister has created a number of other Chief Ministers just like him by making them wear masks. He has also
made his citizens to loose their identities by enforcing the

wearing of masks and forbidding their removal. A death
sentence for those who remove others masks. The Chief
Minister wants to see his own funeral procession and makes
arrangements for the same. The scientist and the modern
man attend the procession. Halfway thro’ the Scientist requests the Chief Minister to step down and puts the modern
man in his place. At the end of the procession the Chief
e. the modern man in his place) requests a real
Minister
burial since there may not be a procession as big as this
when he really expires.
A Ct l l

The modern man inside the grave experiments, meditates
and finds out an erotic small which he could emanate when—
ever he wishes to. This would reach the women and utterly
mesmerize them bringing them into his hold. The society
is filled with rumours abOut the death of the Chief Minister.
People demand that the Chief’s body should be dug out.
Confusion prevails. The modern man comes out of his
grave. His experiments (his skill) on a few women photographs are taken and stories published. People question
the expenditure on the modern man when cheap labour to
clean the sewers is already available. They demand the
stopping experiments on this modern man but they prefer
to get his skill for themselves A new Chief comes to power.
He once again sanctions the experimenting by the Scientist:
The old Chief expires . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

l ) I R ECT( ) R ’ S

N ( )T l i

This play contains a complicated summing up of the
present day crisis. The setting is futuristic. The concept and
fabrication is totally modern. Tradition is indicated when the
play talks about what we are missing. No ritual or folk

