LAB l \ll/ORD.

Curtain

Ea
<1:
2
cm .
M .
2

é
.co
a.

/

l.Il:~‘llrll Dir-hey lllSl auditioned tor a play
when she was only 13, went on to launch
her own theatre company and has made
her mark in cinema loo
y tryst with theatre started really
early. I won the
first prize in an international theatre festival held at
St. Mary's School iii I’ttne
when I was in fourth grade
The festival had kids pat‘tiu
ipatirig from across the
world. including England
and Germany. It was a big
Afterdirecting several successful productions
turning point {or me because it was the ﬁrst 3
for kids. my Iirst step trito adult theatre happened
time that I per lorrned on stage.
I came to Delhi when I was in the ninth when I formed United Players Guild in 1997 with
eminent Indian theatre director and playwright
grade and was probably the youngest to join
Roysten Abel.We went on to do Shakespearean
BarryJohn’s TAG (Theatre Action Group) Iwas
playswhich I produced and he directed.
nervous since 1 was auditioning at the age of
Not only was I the producer but also played
13. l’Iowever. when Barry, who was the artistic
lead roles in these productions. One ofour notar
director ofTAG, saw me on stage. he remarked.
‘Ynu are good, sweetheart'. Atthat moment I felt
ble productions was Othello in Black turd White.
in which I played the role of Desdemona. It 1181'on top of the world.
elled to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. in ScotAlthough I beganwith roles thatinvolved bit
dialogues, Barry cast rrie in the substantial role of land . and won The EdinburghFringe First award
in 1999 It was a big milestone in my career.
lill Mason in the play l-Zlutmwhen I was 16
My love affair with theatre continued and I
Thiswas followed bythe launch ofruytheatre
company calledTheatre World. Under the aegis
went on to participate in several college plays.
After my marriage, I went to the US. where I did of Iheatre World, I started doing solo perforan MS.in Education.
mances, the ﬁrst ofwhich was UriIr'rIaI in 2002.
In 1985 my husband. who is a professor
Another big turnng point is my foray into
in applied mathematics. got ail opportunity to ﬁlms. My ﬁrst two ﬁlm ventureswere Canadian
work both in India and the US simultaneously.
movies including Murder Unveiled. a (BC (CaIcame back to India with him andstarted Ieacltv
nadian Broadcasting Corporation) ﬁlm. In
2006. I got the (iemini Award in Canada for my
ing at the American ltml)assy School in Delhi.
It was then that I realised that 1 wanted to do
role in Murder Unveiled. Alter that a slew of
theatre involving kids since I loved being with
Hindi films happened. I have also just beencast
children.That's how I started Kitlswot’ltl in I9119,
in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's movie Pazlmat'ati.
with my cousin and partner. Bubbles Sabharuu
al.This was ahuge turning point in my life.
(As told to प्र७जिपो१हियों Sa/m}
\

