Dated

द्विस्तष्ठसाहैंझत्मा 40 MINUTES
v\I दृ

मैं

sic tha
revered Iiddu Krishnarnoorthy, the
to transform 10\ e and warmth lreceived from
mjad Ali Khan feels that music has the ability
1 hope the legacy of ‘Guruvshishya
Musicfor Life. great philosopher and guide.
and Wisdom in
any situation. So \nll be his performance in
of parampara' will facilitate the growth of knowledge
eradication
the
in
role
country's
the
a show to highlight
conduc- harmony with well-deserved lndian traditions."
preventable cataract blindness. He wrll get together with
feels the constant presence of a ower. “For someone
Ustad
Elmira
violinist
classical
music. with
tor George Mathew and American
like me, who grew up in an atmosphere 0 classical
concert.
1 feel that every moment
Darvarom for the Western Classical musical
men and strong valuesof tradition and humanity,
‘ln lndia alone, there are nearly 15 million women,
and protection of a power,
and total has been ossible with the guidance
children suﬁeruig from cataractvrelated Vision impairment this situ— in a world full of hope and at the same tirrie disappointments",
blindness. In this room, we have the ability to transform will hear. he says
that we
ation. Our role comes up frorn the beautiful music
Ustad has seen much and he adds about his fresh experiments
witnesses to
Music has the power to transform. The role is to be a
Sarod Concerto on the
have to take with music and Sarod. “There is a new
season. 1 also look
allthose affected by cataract blindness. Each one of us
to those line and also many concerts are comingup this
action in our unit way to bring light and indeed new life
Asha Bhosleji in the coming month
kness.“he says. “The con- forward to performing with
who would otherwise remain boun in
in Mumbai , he adds.
cert throws light on the possibilities that can blossom whena com»
When asked about his View oflife, musical journey and the
Sarmagam, a
munity comes to ether and acts.w he adds about the show organ- musical saga of hisfamily, Ustad said that Amaan and Ayaan
ised iointly by He pMeSee and Music for Life International.
concerto tor
About Amalgam, latest concert project, Ustad says that it is a today do strike a correct balance between the two worlds
follow-up on the highly acclaimed album Soul Strings released in oftraditionalism and contemporary times.
“I see a reat journey of indian classical music
Ali
sarod and
September last year. “My sons Amaan Ali Bangash and A'raan
Bangash Joined with Violinist Elmira Darvarova to create a unique being carried forward by brilliant musiciansof the
orchestra in
collaboration. Darvarowa is aGrammy-nommated concert Violinist. younger generation. 1 am very happy that there
are
young dedicated musicians. They are also
former concert master and artistic director, New York Chamber
Music for Life,
Music Festival. Amnl am brilliantly brin 5 together this daring, committed performers”, he says.
And about the most amazing experience
supercharged. yet pro oundly respectful आवै even affectionatemeet in his life. “The arrival of my grandchiltomorrow. It’s
ing of these musical minds." the maestro says.
Music is a universal language and breaks all barriers. At the dren, Zohaan and Abeer, twins who are
an attempt to
same time. man madebarriers sometimes block cultural exchange. fourvand- a-halfyears old. They are the
eatest attraction in my life. I am very
While asked about being denied a visa to UK recently, he said.
lessed to
ave a wife like
" Musical vibrations can convey moods. emotions and have the abil1१'- '0 mould and shape our consciousness Music has many faces- Subhalakshmi who has been and is
commonalities
co .versauon, recitation. chanting and sin mg are all part of music. aififintegral part ofmy life". he Signs
instrumental music ispure sound. It nee s to be experienced and 0 .
between lndian
elt. Since there are no lyrics, there is no language barrier between
the performer and the listener. 1 am grateful to the British High
and Western
Commission for finally granting rrie avisa. It was one of my most
memorable concerts in London." he believes.
classical music
ln classi music, improvisation is not that easy. Howare
you able to constantly bring modifications in the Sarod?"
systems. He
“i am very glad that today. Sarod has become a univerknown lndian instrument. Even in the West. Sarod
speaks to SARlTHA sally
is very triuch loved by many. M family is on acollec‘
tivemission to makethis beau ' instrument as popSARASWATHY
ular as the guitar. Since my childhood, I always wanted my instrument, the Sarod. to express the entire
BALAN about the
range of human emotions." he says.
“Sarod Ghar. my ancestral home, that was conconcert, the
vened into amuseum in 1995 displays instruments
of the great masters of music. Ustad liaaﬁz AliKhan
Memorial Trust. which runs the museum, has dediArm/gain and his cated its work for the past two decades for the propagation and pmrvation of Indian classical music. Work
musical journey. on compiling a databaseon classical music in the form
of books, articles and audio-visual recordings is progressing," he adds gleefully.
so far
Heard that youhave once said that our classical artistes
t
are not well known for voicingtheir opinionsbeyond the world
of music and dance?
i
He continues, “My guru often told me that he did what he felt
was right and I should do what 1 feel is right. 1 still remember the

ll

explore

. ‘MUSICAL
। Bक्या।ons CAN

music project

,SI-lAP ८ UR CONSCIOUSNESS. I
' f. MU C HAS MANY FACES, w
- 'GONVV SATION,RECITAT|0N, '
CHA NG AND SINGING ARE
A PART OF MUSIC'

३l

च्चा८च्चाचंदृपिच्चा. - Viv—a; _ शा- . ' ‘ "३" १…"४९ मृ क्वे-च्चाषग्गाडानंमृ. छ्येक्शादृम्पा५श्वग्गदृशा

Sarod maestro
Ustad AMJAD
ALI KHAN will
perform

_

a

