ﬁve successive years from 1955. This was the ﬁrst of its kind
in India. The Statesman commented “The expansion of the
Theatre Centre’s activities in furtherance of its aim to revive the
Calcutta audience’s appetite for new plays stimulates reﬂection
in all directions.
Its annual one-act play competition is part
of its campaign to keep small dramatic societies and: club alive
It was clear at this competition that the amateur drama movement is a vital cultural force.” Many of them who took part in
the competition later became well known in the drama scene of
In d ia .

The Centre gradually led the mavement in new directions.

For four consecutive years it organized festival of plays assem—
bling in one platform various teams presenting plays in various
languages.
The Hindusthan Standard observed “Even for
Culcutta the festival was a unique event. For never before inthe history of the stage movement in this country have so many
different types of plays in different languages been presented
under common auspices and with such representative talents in
different language groups.” Those groups which later becamedistinct by their conspicuous contribution to the dramatic art
were Bohurupee, Little Theatre, Mukhosh, Anamika (Hindiu
Sajghar, Amateur Group (Punjabi), Andhra Association (Telegu)r

Gujrati Sahitya Mondal.

Since then the Centre has been moving with new experi-ments. It started production of regular plays in the line of
professional stage holding performances on three days a week.
The Centre as an Institution

Simultaneously the Centre has been developing itself as a

unique institution. In 1961 it started a Drama School. again,
ﬁrst of its kind in this part of the country, for imparting both
practical and theoretical training to the students in all branches
of play production. Project plays are organized by the students.
Successful students are awarded certiﬁcates after proper written.
tests. Promising students are always included in the Centre’s
own team. The Drama School has two sessions a year and has
in its staff a group of lecturers and teachers eminent in their .
respective ﬁelds. Another feature of the Centre is to develop
\NWW शा \r

MA

Space Donated By :

COMMERCIAL TRANSPORT SERVICE
24, Strand Road, Calcutta-I
AA श्या ५ -ख्या g

’

