And then my heart with pleasure ﬁlls
To be Wordsworthian, 'for oft, When on my couch l lie in vacant or in
pensive mood, they flash upon my inward eye...and then my heart with
pleasure fills and dances with the daffodils' which have blossomed in the
life of the Theatre Centre over the last twenty years. Event after event,

experiment

after

experiment,

play after play,

and personality after

personality flash upon my mind's eye in a panoramic procession under the

banner of the Centre. It is the delight of development and growth.
No less, however, do l think of the challenges of time and situation and
the calamities of nature through which we passed on the arduous journey
we had to undertake to reach the achievements. I shudder when I think of
the devastating fire which gutted our Auditorium and Stage in 1966. Our
dreams were shattered and hopes belied, but out of ashes life came again
and the Centre continued to live. '0 joy ! that in our embers, there was
something that did live,’
The Theatre Centre is for the

drama, of the drama and by the drama.

lt

believes in the democracy of drama. With the artists who received training
at the Centre new groups sprang, bringing new strength to the drama
movement which the Centre has always aspired for.

The real role of drama lies in awakening all men in all lands to the truth
of their common destiny. Drama is humane and, therefore, universal—not
personal, not socio-sectional, not regional and not even national. it may
have many faces to show, many tongues to speak with, but its soul is one.
The Centre has always worked with this one ideal to enrich the appeal of
drama and extend its power. It was this ideal which made us organize the
Festival of Plays in different languages of India. Fanfare was not the feature
of our Festivals. Drama was made the vehicle of harmony and i'ntregration
Our late Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru in 1957 hailed this idea
as 'great', and the same is all-time great.

Long live this great ideal ! Long live the Theatre Centre.
B. M. Singhi,
March 14, 1975

President

Space 1 Donated By :
Gram:

IRRISERV

Telex:

021—311

M/S EQUIPMENT
10/1, Princep Street, Calcutta-13
V V" V "‘ ५' V" " ध्याध्या

