SYNOPSIS
. A TH ACH A SA NJ U KT A

A nationlist revolutionary, after the prema—
ture death of his father, compelled to take up a
_ job of a police ofﬁcer for the sake of his family,
consciously became a pimp of a prostitute after
retirement from the service. The prostitute
.again was brought to the profession by her
zunsuccessful actress mother against her will.
.A young rebel took shelter in the prostitute’s
'house before he went out on a killing assign-ment. The three characters entered into a
relation in which each could conﬁde his frustration to the other. The rebel, who wanted to
Ebe a poet, turned into a futile murderer out of
'vengeance against the social evils. The pimp
:and the prostitute pinned their last hope on the
‘ young rebel. But the rebel realised that his god
:ﬁnally had failed him.

‘P A R A JIT A N AY A K

A professional politician, defeated in the

mician to that of a politician was never for any
ideology but prompted only by a false sense of
glory and power. Addicted to political ambitions he madly ran after glory and in the process
became virtually alienated from his family, and
in fact, gradually had lost the tender values of

life.

On the other hand, his attractive corn—
passionate companion, who so far, looked self—
controlled having a world view with no emo—
tional involvement, suddeniy became hysterical

when there was power failure. Next morning
she narrated her past life —how she was seduced
by a man from her idyllic home in a tea estate
and left her to a woman-hunter to be cruelly

ravished. Gradually the two companions discovered a deeper afﬁnity in each other and
developed yearning to live together to make
their life more meaningful.
But the tragedy comes when the girl’s
keeper informed the politician that he had won
the election in a recount. He almost instantly
became a changed person and impatiently
wanted to go back to his former life as politician.

polls, was knocked unconscious by his embiThe

ttered constituents. He was picked up by a
friend of his who kept him hidden from the
:angry mob under safe care of his own mistress.

girl,

having

discovered

his

true

self,

realised that this was his supreme defeat.
S0 RAS H I

In this desolate place, dejected land frustrated,

the politician reViews his 'past life.

He realised

that his journey from his early life of an acade.\ WWW 7“. , \.\.V Vs. \ W V \x v ४ . a VW\, \ - \ /\, wvnmwr

Jibananda Chowdhury, the tyrant landlord
of Bijgram, came to Chandigarh to collect taxes.

,,W, ‘wsv ५. ५ . \,V\,r VW\ N V\,\,\,v ४.५. -४,-४, \~ vvml ५ w\~r\

Space Donated By :

A WELL WISHER

,V v \r

