E

l

He announced his presence to the peOple of

he was born.

the village, demanding money as homage to

University, could never bring himself round to

him. But the priest of Chandi temple Taradas
refused to pay. Jibananda’s armed guards
came and forcibly took his daughter Sorashi
away. Sorashi was living in the temple as a
nun (Bhairavi). W'hen Sorashi was brought to
Jibananda he demanded her as well. But it
had to be Sorashi who nursed Jebananda back
to life when he suffered badly from a bout of
alcoholism. Meanwhile Taradas arrived with
the police to arrest Jibananda for kidnapping
his daughter. But Sorashi saved Jibananda by
telling the police that she willingly came to
Jibananda’s collectorate.
In fact, Sorashi was Jibananda’s wife.
She
had been married to Jibananda when she was
very young. Sorashi remembered him but
Jibananda did not. As a Hindu, Sorashi could
not possibly hand her husband over to the
police as her kidnapper.
This angered Taradas. He skillfully won
Jibananda over to condemn her and ﬁnally
drove her away from the temple and the village.
She left the village without protest, but perhaps
took the inner man of Jibananda with her.

appreciate his father’s prediSposition to wealth
and social and class status. Arka falls in love

Jibananda became a changed man, his outlook of

life changed completely. But the wasted years
of dissipation began telling upon his health.
Jibananda died and Sorashi came back to him.
But she was too late for that.

S E D I N DU J AN EY
His
This is the story of Arka Pratap .
deﬁance of the social law and system in which

Arka Pratap, a student of the

with Sikharini Pathak, his class mate.

They

are from two different worlds and the diSparity
brings them very close to each other. Supported
by his friends and blessed by the musician
father of Sikharini, Arka marries her and lives
on the meagre income as a school teacher. Even
then he completes his studies with remarkable
success. His life style changes as he gets a decent
job, much to the disappointment of Sikharini.
Misunderstandings begin to pile upon the life
of the couple. They decided to have a child
to stop the drift but Sikharini is told that her
days are numbered as she is suffering from an
incurable ailment.

Swallowing his pride, Arka.

returns to his father to borrow money for her
treatment.

her life.

But he does not succeed in saving
Sikharini dies in Arka’s arms.

HUNGRY STONE
In this remarkable story Tagore revealed the

pathos of the life of a woman imprisoned like abird in a cage. To a cotton collector on duty'
the stones of the palace that he oversaw, now inutter desolation began to tell the stories of

the anguished heart, of unsatiated desires, and
of hunger for love that was unrequited. The
collector could hear the mute cries of throttled
love in the enchanted stone castle. Pomp and
splendour of the palace was no longer there but.
love’s tragic fate made it come alive, leaving a

With the best compliments from :
COOK 8 KELVEY LIMlTED
Jewellers & Watchmakers

CALCUTTA / NEW DELHI
W "चम-मअम-च-----

--------, ४ ४.५' ४ A
M

