deep imprint upon
possessed by it.

the mind who became

often frightened screams are heard rending the
quiet of the night.
Amidst these happenings, the famous head-

shrinker, Dr. Sanyal and the nutty scientist,

' ' K E C H O K H U R T E SAA P ' '
The scene opens at a wayside railway station
in Bihar. There we meet Babuji, a retired

Pyarimohan, suSpect that a crime is afoot. The
treasure hunters discover a strange treasure, the
sinister plot is unearthed, and the culprits
brought to light.

attorney, who lives with his widower brother-

in—law, Jamai, ( who becomes conveniently deaf
at times )7 and with his spinster sister-in—law
Hernlata, the lady of the House. They have
family
with them Pyarimohan, M.Sc., a
friend. as their permanent guest who claims
to be a scientist and loves to dabble in weird
experiments.
Nobody seems to bother about their eccentric existence till the arrival of Nini, Babuji’s
teenage grand daughter. Her bursts of hys—
terical laughter awaken love in the hearts of
two local swains-Gokul Deb and the man about
town, Aditya Bose. The rivals soon get down
to wooing Nini. Time passes merrily in play—
ing cards, going for walks and for hunting
expeditions.
Meanwhile Aditya Bose’s mother, Sukesini

THE 19lH CENTURY PRAHASAN
In the Prahasan a few scenes selected from
ﬁve farces, four from the nineteenth century and
one from the early twentieth are presented.
This was a tradition enriched by the works of
Michael Madhusudan Dutt, Dinabandhu Mitra,
Jyotirindranath Tagore, Amritalal Bose, Ramlal

Bandyopadhyay and others.
Underneath the hilarious surface of these
scenes, some of the ﬁnest minds of the period

attack the social evils—the wasteful living of
the youth, hypocrisy in the religion, the inhuman avarice of the professional practitioners
and the masks of virtue under which the rich
play their dirty tricks.

who is considered . to be as mad as a hatter,

confides to Hemlata that she has come to know
of the existence of a hidden treasure. W'hile
they strive to ﬁnd the treasure, Dr. Suren
Sanyal,

a renowned psychiatrist from Ranchi,

arrives to treat Sukesini.
Suddenly, the sleepy
railway
station
becomes the scene of strange nocturnal adventures with shady characters ﬂitting about under
\cover of darkness. Strange sights are seen,

[‘he Masters chose this particular variant of
the comedy—the farce, to Wip the social pests
with a cane coated with honeyed fun, to hold
the audience, and the culprits themselves, in a
ﬁrm grip.

After all the washing through the years our
dirty linens remain as dirty as ever. the past
rises again in this Prahasan to puncture the
corruptions and pretentions of our own times.

क्या
Space Donated By :

LILLADHAR and Co.
43, Jackson Lane, Calcutta
‘N रम-मतेउ-चम-पच-मच-मच-न-य---------------,

