M UM BA I . SUNDAY

d

a ३ ‘५i

'. 08

Left: Zakir Hussain performshis table com: (to with the SOI.
Evgwaushkov.rerentlyappointe as SOI's resident .
or.
titted the September zon concert,

(\ , ,

(० nd
\

’

/

_‘

i .

AN ORCHESTRATED MILESTONE .
Omella D'Souza speaks to KhushrooN Sunrook, MaratBisengalievandZane Dalal, the thebehind the symphonyOrchestra oflndia (30/) that’s/ust tumed ten
his season of the Symphony Orchestra oflndia(50h IS speCial टा

' .

the ensemble turns 10. And the
National Centre of Perforating
‘L'
hlurv‘r" on"
erlned SOi h a (1
o: talk.
and concerts the entire month
i? .

‘y

There‘s British oonductorhlartyn

BrabbirLs who Will Wield the baion in india
छि tor the ﬁrst time. compositions » Symphony

No 1's oililahler and Brahms. ESL‘CIDIS from

galiev in oorioert with his strings group St
James Church at London's Piccadilly in
2083 Upon Suntook‘s invitation. Bisenv
galiev toured Muiiibai in 290405. before
coming on bmrrl “His biggest help wassetting up the NCPA programme that has 35

children as students." in Dalal‘s case, his
uncle notiﬁed Suntook about his'Oxoman'
nephew. anopera scholar. that the SOL only
much needed
Bisengaliev recalls the NCPA being “a

dark place with very little happening. But
Dr Bhabha built a dream, a utopia, of cul
ture that शाट्स rather brave." Dr Bhabha's
cheque from his personal ooﬁ'ers before he
passed away kept theorchestra aﬂoat. “He

invite gub‘ts (conductors Charles Dudoitand

A

' Dumayand singers Simon O‘Neill

and Angel Blue i: performed at Hall of Columns. Moscow. Royal OperaHouse. Mustat.

anddid athreecity tour to Switzerlandwith
tabla mastro Zalo'r H

would say. “when the cause is good, the
साध्या willfollow It took eight years toget

his inheritance, till which we suﬂered deep
1y, We would get nervous when it was time
pay salary. But well-wishers came irom
nowhere, donating upto a crore.”
For Bisengaliev. the homegrown Royal

ह

like Putnhmi‘sMadiaIILeBiltreijIy and Town.

Oman Symphony Orchestra has nonexistant quality and theallioreign troupe of

the Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra has a
bleak future. “So we did what we
thought right. Finding Indian players

The minds behind SOI's accomplish- who are not passengers but want
mean are NCPA Chairman and 301 found- to contribute. i had to be picky
er Khusliroo N Suntook. Kazakhsmn’s vio while choosing," says Bisenlin Virtuoso and 801 music director Marat galiev, who rejected almost
Bisengahev andformer SOl conductor and every applimnt to the SOI. 1१०1)now associate director Zane Dalalt For the ing श्रीKazakh players. oompro
trio. the Journey has been both arduous

and fulﬁlling.
Suntook describes thissetup as semideino
cratic. where he‘s slight dictator “l lmow

what Will go down the throat oflndian audiences," he says He chanced upon Bisen-

()riiirigu has guest conductors, iiiusirians
and Slllgel‘S raving about the orchestra.
For Dalal, touring With the orchestra is

knowledgeable about orchestral music.

The Planet: and a 'a happy birthday ofsorts'
onSeptember worth gloriousovertures and
Waltzes. and even a{elicitation oforchestra
members whohave stuck on

rinsing on salary and impartin g h i5
knowledge 0 f
conductorship to assrstant

Dalal. highlights his dedication
towards 501
Finally. SOl opened in August 2006 with Tchaikovsky's
popular ballet. The Nutcracker.

in the orchestra is one recurring grouse.

३

disasters. The original conductor was But Dalal reasons, "We chose on merit. ३
thrown out three days before the show and The Berlin Philharmonic has a strong secbetween ballet dancers. shenanigans "But tiori ofJapanese musicians and New York ,
it was ahit". Today,the latest issueofNCPA P ’
nic. Russian and English.”
३

gratifying, "We experience great pride for

Humperdinck's Hormel and Gretel. ilolst‘s

Compared to the Zwi'earold Siriss Luoerne Symphony Orchestra that name here
twomonths ago, ten-yearold 801 is but an
inan But they've managed tostage operas

"done by nuts like us," says Suntook. listing

Zane Dalal. Marat
Bisengaliev. and
V:t l ushr ooN
Sunt oot.

the nation when on tour." His personal

highs: meeting the lateDr Jamshed Bhabha
andconducting Bisengalievonstage. “India
doesn't have a ZOO-yeartradition ofWestern
classical music. With no foundation orno
tried and tested way, we had to build on
every single step we took." says Dalal.

D isinissing claims ofhlgher roniimemtion for foreign musicians, Suntook says.
"It all depends on who's playing what role.
People also say Parsis dominate the or-

chestra. But there's only oneParsi student
in the NCPA programme and not a single
one in the orchestra."
What puts him offis people turning up
in jeansand Tvshirts, loafers and no socks.
“It discourages musicians who come

well-dressed."

.-

The same audience. though small.
prove discerning over the minutiae of

\
:

'८. {TE
.
About 30 members form the resident
chamber orchestra and function as full»

ivestern classical music. Suntook talks i
about how internationalconductors are

time employees {or 11 months. Erom 10amGpni daily. practicing prealaid out music

led dumbstruck when their knuckles get
rapped for "Why did you play the piece in

and teachingchild prodigies of the NCPA E ﬂat when it is written D?"
Special Music training programme.
Preliooking iacilities, free concert tick- it:
or i .. um i
ets. dinners. drinks atthe bar. stage parties Tour plans to the Middle East. a Beethovat the end ofevery season and rent allow~ en festival in Germany. and perhaps a
once, are treats members enjoy. “it‘s what
12;city tour in 2018-19 are in the pipeline.
keeps them put here."says Suntook, cheek- In February 2017, the SO] will attempt
ily admitting to love stories between the Puccini‘s La Boheme opera with ED pro
orchestra members. "An orchestra is as jections on stage to recreate scenes. New
good as its People. and the people as good resident conductor, Evgeny Bushkov
as their neighboursallow them to be. Like (tom Russia, who Bisengalievthinks is a
being part of a living organism." says Da- ‘breakthrough ' for the SO]. will grace the
lal. adding that the members are now ac- September season. Bisengaliev. already
customed to the other's style and tempera- in talks with Shiamak Davar. wants to
ment. "And remember. the conductor fuse modern dance and hopes to get the
iiiokesno sound when the orchestra's on orchestra a record deal.
stage I let them playtheir very best as if it
"We've arrived at a point where the
were their idea."
orchestra can play anything. And we're
.I में ..बाँ९.,क्तं भें
proud to have achieved this standards."
- i;l r
i.‘
uLJLHLCJtLlLJML‘J
signs otIDalal.
Under-rrpi'eseiitation of lndinn musicians
oiiielladsouza©dnalndianet.@Aoiegano,

i

५
५‘ .
i
i

I

.
४
‘
i
५

