Q

,... .r . . . . . . . . . . . - १'५..१५।३।००।।०।८०८८५८००८.०३३००५।५१
a...u.-.u.o...-....-.........-nun-... ...u-.....

observed with great fervour. Not very far
from the site of the world‘s tallest Ma
I lurga. which was creating all din and
bustle, chaos anti stampede, the DurgaNaivaratri was celebrated in the most
traditional manner following the
Sringeri tradition. Sringeri is one of the
four (mith peel/Jams established by
Adi Sankara
Durgzt-Nm'aratri starts from
.llabalaya day The inauguration on

i f

"आस्ति/८१1४2 saw dignitaries like Swami

Suddhidananda of Advaita Ashram, Chief
Justice Padma Chellur, justice Chittatosh
Mukherjce, Dr P Nath of the

Vive k Sadas iva m in recital

.

Abhedananda layanti

(slow eletal “kawan dhang tora", fast

Swami Abhedananda. albeit overshadon ed by his (iuru-bhzti Swami

teenral “ali ri alabeli") replete with pure
Agra elements. Unfortunately, he chose
to avoid the nom-tom alap this once,
probably because none of his gbarana

\ivekananda's stunning personality, was
as impressive as an orator. writer and
musician as Swamiji. It was he wlto

accompanied Swamiji‘s vocal recitals
with his ﬂawless pa/ebau'aj support. It
was he who continued to preach to tile
\i'est about the scientiﬁc base of Hindu
Dbmma — a way of life — after Swamiji
returned to India to complete his work
back hotne. But very few have arty
inkling of his contributions It was the
mission ofThalmr Satyananda Dev, a
disciple of Swami Abhedananda, to preserve and propagate the ideals of his
guru The good work is continued
under the spiritual guidance of his spiritual daughter. Shri Archanapuri Ma,
and her devoted disciples led by Swami
Mrigananda
The birthday celebration of Swami
Abhedananda at Sree Satyananda
Devayatan (6 October) had a classical
music recital irt its ﬁnal segment and the
entire evening came alive with Ustad
Jainul Abedin‘s vocal rendition. Blessed
with a melodious resonant voice and
highly emotional mizaj (musical tentperarnent). he captured the hearts of his
listeners with his version of raga Bibag
.

contemporaries do so now; but he

should remember that is where he is
uniquely blessed by his Ustad Iatafat
Hussaitt Khan, who gave him the

.

W135

11"?" "I,

relished the mood
Kalyani On Pancbami day, the disciple
of yet another maestro, Sangita
Kalaacharya, Suguna Varadachari,

enthralled the audience with Papanasam
Siva n's Kama/ash! (Jami in raga Sauen'
andj'anani Mamavameye in raga
Bbalmvi, a Swati 'I‘hirunal composition.
0n Sbasbtbi evening, Vivek
Sadasivam from Bangalore gave a pleasing performance The young vocalist is
the disciple of SGGGV, Kolkata, and is
now undergoing advanced training
under maestro Rudrapatnam
Thyagarajan and Sangita Kalanidhi-nominate Sanjay Subratttaniam. While his
rendering of the Purinagavarali
Aavarana kriti was aesthetic, his Ragam
721mm: Pallavi using three ragas,
Bhairavi, Vasanta and Vasunta
Bbairaw‘, was cerebral as he was ﬂuent-

ly switching front one raga to the other
while rendering the Pallavi as well as in
the Swara praslbar. 0n Shakamabari
Saptami day, Vijay Kumar from Mumbai,
disciple of Srimati Balamani, gave a concert that had an element of warmth in it.
On Asbtami day, SGGGV's senior
students Aishwarya Srinath, P Aravindan,

Brinda Radhakrishnan, K Gayatri and B
Karthickeyan gave a group rendering of
the esoteric KamalambaNauauamam
of Muthuswamy Dikshitar consisting in
all of 12 songs. These were rendered
with the devotion they deserve. The
dance recital on Navami’ day by the
troupe Soundarya Bharata Natyalaya was
a resounding success. The Nat/dram
celebration concluded with

authentic taaleem and, as such, that is

his unrivaled domain!
Superbly supported by tabla maestro
Suiit Saha‘s well anticipated math-sangat and Pradip Paljt's sensitive harmonium, Abedin went on to sing ajhaptal
composition followed by another teental "e mori Durga Maa" (composed by
his ustad) in raga Durga, The rivulet of
devotional fervour seeped into the next
“dekho ali hori khelat Nandalal re", a
Bandisbi thumri in Kafi. This was an
encore. A Kabir bhajan cattle as the
ﬁnale of this enthralling evening to
which the ambience of the Ashram
added the desired colour of spirituality.

Navaratrl celebrations
At the Sankara Institute of
Philosophy and Culture, the nine days
of auspicious Navamtri, a biannual
occurrence in the Hindu calendar, is

v.5
-'-’

International (iita Foundation and
scholar I)r Saitiiran Chakrttborty. The
latter gave a special talk on Devi
.Ilabima. On all the days of Navaralri.
the mornings began with puja and Devi
.llabamti'am chanting. livery day different incarnations of the Goddess were
worshipped. Kanyaka and Suvasini Pujas
were done as per tradition.
In the evening, the institute organised Sangita Seen. The inaugural seva
was a Carnatic violin duet by K Gayatri
and Brinda Radhaktishnan, students of
Sri Guruguha Gana Vidyalaya, Kolkata.
Their main offering was the Kalyam'
5’
' '- Nat/avama kriti. On the
ﬁrst three days ofNat/dram, Girija
Ramaswamy from Chennai gave
kalhakalasksbepam (musico-lecture) on
Sakti Prabhavam, Bhakta Markandeya
and Valli Parinayam. These were well
received by the audience. 0n the fourth
day, R Ratipriya, disciple of Sangita
Kalanidhi, R Vedavalli, gave a pleasing
vocal recital and the highlight was
Meenalocbana brova in raga Dbanyasi
and Bbajare re recbitta in raga

meena banerjee

tviwiun'u-nuuuu

l i. 1I I H. I I ८ li l l

Namasanleirtan by FMC Bhaian Mandali
on Dasbami day as per tradition.
On all days. the violin support by
Mythili Raiappan, S Ranganathan,
Achyuta R Rao and Priyamvadha, and
mridangam support by R Srinivasan, L
Shankar, S Venkatraman, Kartik GR and

G Aravind contributed a lot in making
the events enthralling. The stage décor
depicting Vidyaranya Temple of Sringeri
enlivened the spiritual atmosphere.
“Such programmes become a success

because of the enormous dedication of
some men and women who take care to
preserve these values," said )5 Narayan.
the president of the institute.

nattuvangam skills by Guru Padmini
Radhakn'shnan and her senior disciple.
Mubina, on the violin Surmani B
Anantharaman (Mumbai) and on the

mridarigam N Shankar (Kolkata), the
programme surer gave a good start to
this festive season and to the audience of
Kolkata.
The introduction of an annual dance
and music festival, "Tauryatrikam". to be

organised by Soundarya Bharata
Natyalaya in spring commencing 2016.
was also solemnised on this auspicious

day at the hands of doyens in the ﬁeld of
dance and culture such as Alokananda
Ray, Thankamani Kutty, .-\bhoy Pal, GV
Subramanian. director, Kolkata Kendra.

Preserver- Destroyer
At a time when the country celebrated the victory of Good over Evil and the
City ofJoy was gripped in Puja fervour,
Soundarya Bharata Natyalaya, an institution dedicated to spreading the divine
art of Bharatanatyam, presented “Hariv
Haram" — a ballet celebrating the glory
of the Preserver ﬂiari) and the grandeur

of the Destroyer (Hara) at Aban Mahal
on 17 October. The event was graced by
several dignitaries.
The seemingly disparate and often
colliding energies of Narayana (Hari)
and Shiva (Hara) have frequently
polarised the Hindu mind. “Hari-Haram"
presented by senior Bharatanatyam
artistes Shobha Roy and Nilein Singha
from Mumbai explored the areas of
commonality between Shiva (the
Destroyer) and Vishnu (the Preserver)
and ventured to comprehend the interconnectedness of the two and celebrated the diverse manifestations of the one
Supreme Entity through Hari and Hara.
An experienced and proliﬁc performer, ideator, choreographer and
teacher of Indian classical dance, Nilesh
has made a mark for himself as a classical dancer in Mumbai and is one of the
most promising dancers of the current
generation. While his mastery over
rhythm made people sway, his
abbinaya, particularly his exposition of
the episode of Kannapan, touched the
hearts of people and moved thertt
deeply. Shobha is an exceptional dancer
with a ﬁne grip over abbinaya. Having
selected a piece that is generally not performed in dance and used more in
Carnatic vocal concert, she did complete
justice to the song portraying episodes
like Abalya Molesbam, Sagar Manlban
and took the audience to a higher level
of spirituality through Geetopadesba
showittg the Vishwaroopa of Krishna.
Coupled with spellbinding vocal and
दृ w;

Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Mohana Iyer
and Arkadev Bhattacharya.
This annual festival to be organised
under the flagship of Guru Rajalalshmi
Venkateswar, one of the seniormost
dance teachers of Kolkata, will see eminent dancers ofthe traditional classical
format in different dance forms perform
in this city. The dance gurus present
extended their support and encouragement for this festival. According to
Shobha Roy, founder-director of
Soundarya Bharata Natyalaya, this festival is aimed at getting the best names in
different dance forms from across tlte
country to perform to live music so as to
be able to encourage students and
enthusiasts to take up classical dance
and music on a tttore serious note. “We

hope dance students and enthusiasts will
greatly beneﬁt by getting to watch talented dancers performing live, " she said.

r - प्राय3:»
Jalnul Abedln

Coming up

d

12-15 Nov: Rasikhapriya organises 23r
anniversary celebrations feamringlvocalists Neyveli R Santhagopalan (12 , 6
pm), MaharajapuramS Ganesh (h
Vishwanathan, R Suryaprakash (13 ,
5pm), SP Ramh an violin duet by
Akkarai Sisters (14 , .50 pm), Bombay
Jayashri Ramnath (15 , 9.30 am);
Uttam Mancha.
rude/w" r M“

7"“;Fism;*:‘f-f‘~5rd

/

