seat» 6 i है--

-१८१८.
It-.

a.-.

INDIAN CENTRE FOR CULTURAL INTEGHAT N ८१११ आस्थान
PROUDLY PRESENTS

' | SHAWASYA"
कया ईश्वर मर चूका है हैं
—-AN ‘AARANGAN' CREATION 1
Directed by : DR. RAJ RAJENDRA
Kamani Auditorium, Copernicus Marg, NEW DELHI
Monday. 27th April 17,
700 P.M.

हैं
COMMITS to a non-partisan, voluntary cultural movement seeking to strengthen bonds of
Cultural Integration at all levels. It invites you to become an active participant and help in
bringing about a sense of Cultural Enlightenment seeking to inculcate fraternal feelings
Er
better understanding amongst the Countrymen.

WEDED to the cause of Cultural Integration and truly believes in the non-partisan concept
of voluntary endeavour and seek to subscribe in the making of an unified and integrated
Nation, employing various means of performing arts. It has its own vision to en-compass those firrnarnents which embrace dimensions of over-all Cultural Integration.

OPERATES within the domain of performing arts and are pledged to encourage arnateurisrn
as well as professional performances leading to the promotion, exchange and
preservation
of creative art-work.
It is weded to arouse consciousness and awareness for Cultural
Integration.
It convenes Concerts of Music, Dance and Drama; stage Ballets, DanceDramas, Operas and hold Symposias and similar 'Get-to-Gathers' at various
intervals to
focus the coveted cause of Cultural Understanding.

lCCl is a voluntary cultural movement committed
to promote the cause of
Cultural Integration. It stands for arousing integrated cultural
-consciousness leading
to the goal of over-all National Integration. And admitte
dly. It is neither an establishment meant for imparting commercial training in Dance,
Drama and Music nor Societies
of a privileged class to do something sporadic entertaining activitie
s or stage some concerts
casually to offer recreation only.
lt has some broader out—look.
It also does not fall
within the purview of those Societies which are
purposely created to give birth to social

personalities only and, understandably, their area of
operation is not only limited
but monopolised. And SO. lCCl Offers YOU to make a joint
and concerted effort to bring
about an understanding of Cultural Integration.

Move together, radiate one and the thou
ght-wave
and form a NATIONAL-M IND.

