Delhi Art Theatre
Flat 36, Shankar Market, Connaught Circus
New Delhi 110001

में Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful
contribution in promoting and enriching theatre. Its productions have been
acclaimed not only in Delhi but also in almost all major cities and towns of
India and beyond. Particularly in the field of operas and musical dramas the
group under the direction of Sheila Bhatia has carved a unique and unrivalled
place for itself. It is gratifying to note that those who till recently scoffed
at this genre are enthusiastically adopting or greeting attempts to introduce
music and dance in their plays. We can take legitimate pride as the innovaters
and creators of this movement as we always believed that Indian theatre, if
it has to take ﬁrm roots cannot do without integrating song, dance and drama
based on indigenous forms but adopting modern techniques.
Call of the Valley was their ﬁrst attempt in this genre. It was followed
by Rukhe-Khet which attained a larger measure of integration in its musical
form.
From these ﬁrst steps emerged the Opera, Heer Ranjha, which solidly laid
the foundation of a modern and at the same time indigenous form of opera.

It

was acclaimed as a landmark in theatre by the critics and the public alike.

The opera Prithviraj Chauhan followed.

It captured the spirit of 12th

century India. It was hailed as a very bold experiment which protrayed diverse
moods and situations through haunting melodies and thunderous choruses.

After this opera follwed Chann Badlan Da which again was acclaimed as
a unique musical incorporating the best in folk music with the best in stage
craft.
Ghalib Kaun Hai broke new ground by presenting a musical in Urdu.
The combination of verse, prose, music and chorus lent it colour and charm.

lt

achieved universal acclaim and has solidly laid foundations of a new type of
musical drama.
Next the group presented Jaan-e-Ghazal, again a musical in Urdu. This
musical depicts the evolution of Ghazal from Amir Khusro to the present day.
The idea that Ghazal cannot capture serious thought is belied by this musical.
This was followed by Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka—Hawwa-Se-Hippie Tak. The
theme is Indian woman from ancient times to the modern. It is not a panegyric
to Indian women, but depicts the stark reality behind the silken curtain.

In all these major productions training formed an integral part for
artists whether they were actors, singers or technicians. Many raw hands became
proﬁcient in their crafts through this training. Some of them are big names in
the cultural world.
Since the later half of 1976 the group, in recognition of its distinctive
service to theatre, the group was selected for ﬁnancial assistance by the Department of Culture, Government of India.

Under that scheme NADIR SHAH was

