DARD AYEGA DAB-E PAON
The play is not bound by time and place.- lncidents shown
emerge out of the poet's experiences and imagination. They can
take place anywhere, any time.

A ct -— I

The play opens with the poet’s two loves—Malika and
long friendship with the poet has grown into a love that
yearning to be close to the poet, to touch him and to feel
towards him, while he is asleep, but dare not go too near lest
The poet knows of Malika’s love for him. He is aware of
born out of this unrequitted love.

Meher. Malika’s
drives her with the
him. She is going
the poet sees her.
Malika’s suffering

Poet loves Meher. He is enamoured by her beauty, charm and innocence.
Meher is married to Aftab. Meher, Malika, poet, Aftab and Nasirn are friends
of many years. Their evenings together are full of fun, gaiety, poetic and political repartee and jealousy and teasing. Aftab knows of the bond between Meher
and poet. This period represents the early phase of the poet’s life and sensibilities, his poetry being full of love, romance and the torments and pleasures of
heart.
Surrounding them is the stark reality of the busti, with its various inhabitants from all strata of life. They have their own different problems, miseries
and the day to day struggles.
There are Rahul and Suhel, two college students whose only ambition is
to be successful and to reach the top somehow, by any means.

There is Nanni. Waiting is her lot. Her husband Iqbal has disappeared
in search of a job. Nanni is lonely, alone and waiting for Iqbal, In her poverty
and suffering she is constantly threatened by the goondas of Siyaram Chaudhary,
landlord and money lender.
Kiran and Berket are also a part of the busti. They are never sure of the
next days’ work or the next meal. Because of the monsoons they are once again
without work. Kiran gives her jewellery to Berket to sell it 01? and to buy something to feed themselves. Berket hates it but is helpless.
Poet has begun seeing all these things.

Gulab sells milk and is a part of everyones life in busti.
she takes care of Nanni and protects her.

In her own way

