The freedom, peace and bread that the people had been dreaming of does
not come. People in their suffering and want demonstrate against the regime.
Kabira, Aftab and many others from the busti are jailed. A reign of terror
prevails.
The poet is put in solitary conﬁnement. Repression and torture have
many forms. The poet is deprived of pen, paper and news of any kind. He is
alone and lonely. A man whose identity is his communication is barred cornpletely from any form of exchange or communication.

In his utter loneliness in the dark cell, he dreams and thinks of the city
with its lights, laughter and many sounds pregnant with meaning. He addresses
to all the women who have ever loved.

“This evening when they light the lamp
Let them turn the ﬂame high... .. ”

He sees them in his imagination.

Poet ﬁnds a friend in Shums in jail. Shums smuggles paper and pen to
poet in the jail and smuggles out his poetry to Malik
a. Malika and all people
in busti are overjoyed to have news of the poet and other prisoners.
They all sit together and read and sing the poems that the poet has sent to
thenL

As they wait for the prisoners to be released, all plan to go to the Mazar

and have a face to face talk with their god. They reproach him for the kind of
existence that he has inﬂicted on them. They tell him that if he can not give
them a simple, honest, and modest living, they might as well go and search for
some other god.

It is around this time prisoners are released.

There is joy all around.

People dance, sing and welcome them. Fakira joins the rejoicing but he knows
that the celebrations are premature as conditions of the people are as dark as
ever. He is happy that the busti’s sons and lovers have returned back to their

homes and hearth but he doubts if they can return back to
the old days of
abandoned joy and the carefree hilarity.

“What will the spring do now ?
Where are those who were life of the mehfi
l
Flowers have faded on the branches

And the hearts are lifeless within.

