___ I

.

5.9.92
TAKIA
Written by
Produced by
Directed by

:
:
: '

Iqbal Majeed
Darpan. Lucknow
Cliitra Mohan

~

Synopsis
The play starts with an old story teller who is narrating an interesting
but imaginary story to his audience. He talks about a prince of an
imaginary state. who once violated the will‘of his father and opened the
lock ofa mysterious tunnel situated some where in the palace w iere entry
was strictly prohibited. Through this tunnel the )rince reaches to an
unknown country where all human values were ased on money and
money alone. He notices that day and night people were running after

money and using fair and foul means to earn it. The prince realized that
none of them was satisﬁed and happy and everybody held money.
responsible for the shortcomings of their life. .
The prince felt pity on them and summoned the Goddess of Space
to provide them money so that they could live peacefully and happily.
loddess blessed them and the ver next morning every member of that
society startedtgettin two lakhs o Rupees ever day from his pillow.
How this ow o mone ultimately brin s t iat society to the edge of
ﬁnal disaster and how tot life. inspite of ८ available riches. becomes
hopelessly complicated and how eternal meanness of human beings
create new horrible dimensions.become the central idea of the play.
At last. after snubbing all the sacred values of life and exploiting all
available means for personal ends the innate huntger of power and
authority. distorts and disﬁgures the individual and 1e society in such

a wa that man loses his identity by transforming from man to a worm
and rom a living being to a commodity.
A fantas alongwith modern sensibility. containing humour with
deep satire.fo owed ) y gripping tragedy for human resourcefulhless and
limitations. comes to an end with a humanly devised explosion.

Director’s Note
The story of the play predominants contains the elements of fantasy
and imaginative situations. but the basic thread in.,tlie approach of
dealing with the situation in different areas of the production is quite
realistic and down to earth. the text is treated in performance by an acting
style blending realism and fantasy.

Cast and Credits
Dastango/W’azir:
Rasto i.Wazir-2-Ashok

1
Prayag
Verma.
Ofﬁcer/WazirJBoAnil
Singh. Chor-i/ Dr. Anand- Mano]
Joshi.

Chor- /Reporter 1 -Syed Labaib. Chor-3/Reporter 2-R.S.Sony. Krishna
Babu / Reporter 3-Vijay 'I‘ewari Mukhia/Andha F‘a( uir-Roop Raj Na ar.
Neta-Vijaya
Banerji.
Police-l/
Jallad-Asholx
Sinha.
Po ‘ce

2 /Commander-Chandra

Mohan.

Raj

Kumar-Dadi

Ram.

Ramu/

Commondo/ Mr.Crupp -Suresh Dalwani. Children- 13टा111/न्दिहूशा८ Ritu.

Devi —Parul. Kamna ~SudhaSharma. Krishna Babu'swife-Sudha Rastogi.
Lajwanti Kaur/ Yoga lnstructress/ and Neta's 1st. wife§Sandhya Deep.

Mukhia‘s wife-Santosh Bala. Ramkali-Anita Rastogi. Andhi/ Child‘s
motlier—Reena 'l‘ondon. Madam Rozy/ Neta's 2nd wife- Shoma Sarkar.
Chorus- 'l‘eeka Ram. Prayag Verma. S ed Laraib. Sandhya. Anita. Seema.
Shoma. Manju. Roopraj. L. iandra ohan.Sudha. Mano]. Vijay Tewari.

Stage Manager Manoj Joshi. Sets- Madhu.Dhiren. Make-up-Hem Singh.
Costgiunes - Sandhya. Manju. Ashok. Properties-Dadi. Laraib. ROOpa.
Li ht designed and operated by- Raghav Parkash. AssistanceTeeka 110111, Art Direction-Yo i. Advisor-Urmil Kuniar. Music
Direction-Ravi- Deepu. Producer - idya Sagar Gupta.

Director =
Chitra Mohan (b. 29 June. 1960) M. A. (Phil) Active in theatre since

1979. Diploma in theatre from Bhartendu Natya Akademy. Lucknow.
Lecturer at Bliaratendu Natya Academy. Lucknow. Directed several plays
and acted in many which include a few tale- plays . Has also been involved
in children theatre activities.

