6 .9.92
MAHRAKHEY
Written by _
.
Produced and Directed by

:
: '

Chhatrapal
Mushtaq Kak

Synopsis
The play is the action and interaction of the internal turmoils of our
society. which is leading a borrowed life and human beings are forced to
use attractive masks to hide the hollowness and real picture of their lives.
The play has been woven with the help of three different love stories and
explains the deformities. and complexes which have soiled the human
relationship. Each story revolves around "Manak Mulla" who is central

character and narrator (Sutradhaar) of the play.
१
All the three female characters of the play are victims of male
chauvinism and exploitation. Thus the play goes on to highlight the social
evils that exist in our society and exposes the gruesome picture. All these
deformities make life a very gruesome picture. which this play intends to
bring out.

Director’s Note
The presentation has style which is very essential for training of

actors. I shall try to re-discover the methodolgy for Amateur actors
training. The production has incorporated several non- theaterial
elements in this work for effective theaterical expressions.
In MAHRAKHEY (masks) make up is not used because the actor’s
own face is most expressive element. In my personal opinion. actor can

make the Charactor alive by his/her own voice and movements. There

will be no trickery. nothing is hidden in this performance. Actors are in
their real shape and withOut the help of typical costumes ‘and make up.

only then can we begin "MAHRAKHEY";

Cast and Credit
Jtunna-anju Dullu. Manik- J.r.sagar. Jumna Ki Maa- Jeetu
Sing11.j11nma Ka Bap-Shiv Singh.masi llori-sunita Pandit. Tanna Raj
Kumar Bhatt. Maisar-madan Rangeela. Aurat - Sunita Pandit.lilyGurmeet Kaur. Ram Dhan-Mushtaq Kak/ .Devinder Nanda. Sati-Jeetu

Singh. Lala-J. P. Nanda. Sharbi-Ajay Safaya/ Rattan Kalsi. Neak RamArun Singh Wazir. Chaman Thakur-Devinder Nanda.
Dogri Adaption - Chhatrapal. Production Manager-Rattan Kalsi.
Production Assistant - Shiv Dev Singh. Arun Kumar Gour. Up'inder

Sharma. On Rythem-rakesh Kumar. Set Execution- Shivdev
Singh/h-/Madan Rangeelaiights - Mushtaq Kak/ Devinder Nanda.
Music - Bhupinder Singh Jainwal. .
Director
Mushtaq Kak. born in 196 l . has acquired theatre eduction through

the process of self motivation and interaction. A verstile artist Mushtaq
Kak is a Painter.Act(')r. Designer and Director. He has conducted several
theatre workshops for adults as well as for children. Major productions
directed by Mushtaq Kak are Bakri. Evam-Inderjeet. Loton and Parmatma

Ka Kuta. Andher Nagri in Hindi. Sava Ser Kanak and Devyani in Dogri.
Garak Ho Riha Manukh in Punjabi. Play "Devyani" has partricipated in

North Zone Theatre Festival-1991. He has been actively involved in
diverse levels ofthreatre activity as a Director.

