7.9.92
BAA MULAHIZA HOSHIYAR
Written by
Produced by
Directed by

:
:
:

R. S. Himesh
Samanvaya. Shimla (H .P.)
Bhupender Sharma

Synopsis
The theme ofthe play is the changing socialfabric in the rural society
in Himachal Pradesh. The play depicts the conﬂicts between
“No-changers“ and "Pro-changers“ though in a subtle way. The loudness
of the play has the under current of the conflict between the forces of
change and status quo. The status quoers still hold the belief that all that

existed in the past- thoughts. institutions. establishments were sublime
and hence could not and should not be changed. To them everything
modem is leading the society towards the ultimate and inevitable disaster.
The pro-changers. on the other hand. believe that old is not always
gold and change is inevitable. absence or denial of which means
deathnthe death of a society and system.
“'
५
The no- change syndrome gets weaker and weaker with the passage
of time and pro-change forces get momentem.
'

Director’s Note
"BAA MUIAHIZA HOSHIYAR“ is a complex play in which three
stories run simultaneously. One story is the hang over of the old
generation regarding British raj. The second is the struggle of the younger
generation with the old values and the third is the obstructionist tactics
of the 6fﬁcials who stand in the way of the change from the old order to
the new one.
The theme of the play is universal atleast in the rural world which
consﬂtute over eighty per cent of the world population. There is a

perpetual struggle for change in the entire social fabric values and
cultural traits in the rural societies all the world over.

Cast and Credit
Chandrawali - Sweety Chauhan. Ravaloo - Dhuven Sharma. Rulia.

Talku Ram. Mantry - Devash Sharma. Megh Ram.Piare Lal - Surinder
Gill. Sahab. Kanthi Ram - .Parmesh Sharma. Dauli - Pardeep Kanwar.
Mathu Ram. Lakhia - Dayal Prasad. Dhani RAm - 'I‘ej Parka‘sh Sharma.
Ruldoo - Sat Parkash Sharma. Kansia. Malkeet - Shashi Bhushan.

Angrage - Parveen Chandla. Kirpal - Vidya Sagar. Najkhoo - Anju G uleri__a.
Kewal Krishan - Vijay Shanna. Mast RAm - Shevesh Sharma. Daya Ram;

PA - Sanjay S harma. B. D. O. Paras Ram - Ram Pal Malik. Kubja - Jeevan
Lakshmi. F‘andia -' Dev Prakash Sharma. Chankoo Rani - Rakesh Sharma.
Music - Lokender Kanwar. Hukam Sharma. Mathu Ram. Sets -

Dayal Prasad. Lights - Rajan Kaushal. Ram Pal Malik. Costumes - Anju
Guleria. Writer - R. S. I‘Iimesh. Make up - Parveen Chandla. Chours Hukam Sharma. Bhuven Sharma. Vidya Sagar. Sweety Chauhan.

I Director
Bhupendra Sh'arma (b. 26.7.64) has directed over 15 plays for his
group Sanianvaya. He is also researchng on Karyala. the folk theatre
form of Himachal Pradesh.
०

स्था

