8.9.92
LOONA
written by
Produced by
Directed by -

.

:
:

Shiv Kumar Batalvi
Manch Rang-Manch. Amritsar

:

Kewal Dhaliwal

Synopsis

‘

~

King Salwan marries Loona of a low caste family (Chamar de Dhi )

as goes a folk song in Punjabi. Being a low caste. Loona is not aware of
the contractual value of marriage.
Almost of her father's age. Salwan is senile and In; sexual advances
leave her cold for that matter. So she feels inf'atuater with Puran. her
stepson. who has just crossed the threshold of adolescene. After twelve
years of confinement. he has emerged from the cell where he was kept
under the belief of being inauspicious for his father.
.
However he, rerjects Loona's advance for illicit relation. In his effort
to awaken her to the enormity of her sin. he earns her ferocius ire. Thus

infuriated. Loona accusses him of having molested her. Salwan' is
informed of the allegedly incestuous intentions of his son. He calls him
to the court where accusations are ‘made and remonstrances are advances
in return believing Loona's accusation to be true. Salwan orders that
Puran be mutilated and thrown into deserted well.

Director’s Note
It is stylised production using the elements. devices and techniques
of several folk theatre form of Punjab. Chorus and music plays an
important role in the production.

'

"

Cast and Credit
Nat - Harjeet Sandhu. Nati - Jatinder Riar. Salwan - Hardeep Gill.

Warmang- Pawan Deep. Ira - Renu Singh. Mathari - Narinder Kaur. Kunt
- Gurmeet Kaur. lshraan - Ravinder Atwal. Goli — Rupinder Kaur. Pooran
- Jagjit Dhillon. Chodal दृ V'ed Shanna. Loona - Surjit Kaur. Father
of

Loona - J. S. Jas. ‘nroup of Chambialan's - Jatinder. Renu. Gurmeet.
Surjeet. Rupinder. Ravinder. Narinder. Chorus- Tarminderjit. H. S.
Sandhu. Tajinder. Narinder Sanghi. Sandeep. l.ovely.' Hennery. Ajay.

Rupinder Dhillon. Balwinder V'eyka. Satish.

’

Playwright - Shiv Kumar Batalwi. Set Execution - J.»S. Jas. Light
Controller - lnderjit Sohaaran. Costume Incharge - Narinder Sanghi.
Property Incharge - Hardeep Gill. Makeoup - Pawan Deep. Stage Manager

- Jagjit Dhillon. Production Controller .- Harjeet Sandhu. Music - Paramjit
Singh. Assistant Director - 'Renu Singh. Set. light. Costume. Design &
Direction - Kewal Dhaliwal

Director
A
Kewal Dhaliwal (b. 7.10.1964) is a graduate of National School of
Drama (Specialisation in direction). He has been an active member of

Amritsar School of Drama and Amritsar NATAK KALA KENDRA since
1978 and President Manch Rangmanch. Amritsar since 1989. Since last
10 years he has been working with S.Gursharan Singh. Given
performances in more than 50 plays including Mother Courage. Titus and

Ronicus (Shakeshpear) Summer F‘olk (Gorky). Kingstage (Carlo Gozi).
Tamar Patra (Davshishunajomdar) The man moon Rising (Lady Gragery).
Three Sisters (Chekhav) Rattasallu (Harcharan Singh). lkk Maa Do Mulk
( Harsharan Singh) Jadon Roshni Hundi Hair. Katha Kehar Singh. Atma
Vikaau Hai (Gursllaran Singh).

_
M

