9 .9 .92

DENZONG LHO MON NADAM
(BLOOD BROTHER-HOOD)
BHU'I‘IA
Written by
I Produced by
Directed by

:
:

Bhaichung Tshichudarpa
Sikkim Tribal Youth

:

Association. Gangtok
Pintso Chopol

I

Synopsis,
This play is based on the legend of ‘DENZONG LHO MON NADAM
(BLOOD BROTHER-HOOD). The tradational folk-lore of the Bhutias and
.‘the Lepchas was borne out of an oath taken by Khye Bumsa and
'I‘he-Kong-Tek. Both the Cliieftians took a blood oath while the holy
Mountain Khangzendzonga— the Five. Hidden Treasures- was the main
witness of the. historic even at Kabi Loong Tsok- We erected the Stone.
Since then. Phang Lhabsol or the festival of the Holy Witnes is being
celebrated to this day.The play has been divided into four scenes
representing the different ages of history through which the story passes.
The background is common for all the scenes and props of the play are
minimum. Due to the limitation placed on the number of participants.

the group had to resort to recorded background music instead of involving '
musicians.
'
Director’s Note
This play is based on DENZONG LHO MON NADAM (BLOOD
BRO’I‘HERHOOD) OF‘ SIKKIM. The events which took place before the

blood oath has been narrated here. "Pang Lhabsol“ is celebrated on the
'15th day of the 7th month of Tibetan Calender annually. This festival is
in honour of the holy Mountain Khangzendzonga. Mountain

Khangzendzonga was the main witness at Kabi where the blood oath had
been taken between the Chieﬁians of the Lepchas and Bhutias- The
Kong-Tek and Khye Bhumsa. respectively.

३ Cast and Credit
" The - Kong - 'I‘ek - Chooda Daley. Niokiong Nal - Sonam Karma.
Sakya Kongmo. Loday Zangpo. Chhiunu Guru - Angi Ongmoo. Guru
Tashi - karma Namgyai. Kiley Bumsa - lsewang Ringzing. Sons - Samdup
Tashi. Ringling Chhophel. Ugen Gyatso. Nawang Palbar ॰ Sonam Gyatso.
Khangchendzonge - Palden lsewang. Khandoo - Sonam Karma. Khando
Lhamo. Diki Bhutia. Kelsang Ch Hoden. Karma Sonam. Ministers Sonam Gyatso. Ringling Chhophel. Karma lshcring. Samdup Tashi. Ugen
Gyatso. Servants — Sonam Karm. Diki Bhutia. Labonrs - Sonam Gyatso.
Norbu Pintso. Chhoda Daley. Dancers - Khandu Lhamu. Diki Bhutia.
Kelsang Chhoden. Karma Sonam. Rinchen Doma. Dichen Chhongmo.
Tashi Thendup. Tashi lsewang. Kenzang Sherab. Sonam Chenzor. Kanna
Sonam. Karma Ch-Hophel.

Director
Bhaichung 'I‘shichudarpa is a research Scholar of High Calibre. He
is Acharchya of Buddhist Studies and takes keen interest in drama.
stories. plays. poems. and novels.

