l

_m_
it / Fauzia Man'kar
s always, a great deal of meticulous

_ A meniorable visit
tion of the staff or the singing instructor

; who
A planning went into the recent series of ﬁnally showed up after the class
was over.

with a View to attract an elite membership. It
began with typically generous and delicious
refreshments characteristic of the Oberoi

concerts by Marla Berg, a ‘renowned American punctuality was in evidence; Berg

opera and concert soprano from the United
States of America, brought to perform in Calcutta by the Kolkata Classics Club. Berg’s
repertoire stems from her experience in the
prominent and lead roles of the great classical operas as well as the famous Broadway
musicals. As always, the chief organizer of
these presentations, Jennifer Heemstra, was
the accompanist and fellow artist.
First, there was a generous, hour-long
master class offered to the students of vocals
‘at the Calcutta School of Music on July 3.
This long-planned presentation was, as usual,
taken lightly by the CSM. A mere seven young
singers dribbled in, there was no representa-

was strictly on time, cheerfully introduced
herself and proceeded to conduct a delightful
class with some stage performance pointers
to the talented and eager young singers. She
stressed upon the importance of the stage entree, posture and delivery, all of which she
demonstrated in a delightful closing rendition of Mozart’s “Un moto di
gioia”. It was an exciting and
highly instructive session that
was sadly lacking an audience, .
goodness knows why.
;शव
On the evening of July 6, at the
ballroom at the Oberoi Grand,
.
was held a concert by invitation टाल है - t

Grand which the ‘elite’ tucked into with a
kind; of operatic fervour: The performance
that llowed fell short of expectations, owing
ma' y to the acoustics and perhaps a far-toolen
y explanation accompanying each
item This was unfortunate, considering the
pur se of the evening.
.,"
The ’main aim of these concerts is to bring about an awareness among children from all
walks of life of Western music in
all'its richness and diversity This
season, owing to the heavy rains,
not many of the NGO-run schools
attended. However, on July 9 and

V

10, in the spacious auditorium of Kala
Mandir, three scintillating recitals were given
to a packed hall .— 1,300 and 1,200 children,
mainly from the Ashok Hall Group of Schools

and a few NGO-run Schools, were enthralled.

Both Berg and Heemstra brought their formidable skills to the fore with great erudition
and humour; invitingan active interaction between the audience and themselves. This was
the most rewarding aspect of the series. '
On the evening of July 10, a final concert
was held for the public, who braved the weather to come and Witness one of the most entertaining musicalprogrammes, which included
works by Mozart, Strauss, Puccini, Debussy
and Fauré, as well as Jerome Kern, Cole
Porter, Rodgers and Hammerstein and Leonard Bernstein. Berg’s impressive operatlc
and Broadway experience gives her a smooth
pedagogical skill combined with a charming,
dramatic humour which was enhanced by the
spectacular accompaniment by Heemstra. ‘
j/
l

.

