LOK DEV’T‘A
is not
Harichand, one of the princes of the Chand dynasty
y
mainl
art.
of
interested in ascending the throne. A patron

music and dance, he is in love with Kokila, a dancer and
singer of the low Nayak caste. His mother is keen to put her
son Harichand on the throne, while his grandfather, the
mighty Ba] Bahadur is interested in Gyanchand , his another
grandson. Intrigues and counter—intrigues follow in the
court. On the order of Bay Bahadur, Harichand along with
his father Odyotchand are dispatched to quell a revolt in
Gangawali region, on the advice of the arch—conspirator
Vishweshar Pande. Gyanchand orders Kokila to administer

poison to Harichand. Kokila accepts his order, as her mother
and her two young brothers are in the custody ofGyanchand.
to
Harchand’s. mother through counter espionage comes
to
ra
Malyu
maid
ed
trust
know of this plot. She deputes her
a
Kokil
field,
battle
the
In
foil any attempt to kill Harichand.

puts Harichand to sleep. and mixes poison in the wine,
which, she advises him to take in the morning. In the
morning, Harichand takes the poisoned glass to, his lips.
But, Malyura who has been evesdropping, intervenes and
is
throws away the glass. In the ensuinjg conversation it

revealed that Malyura has come there to save Harichand's
life. He wants proof. Malyura, who secretly loves him. drinks
the poison and dies. In the meanwhile, the village folk bring
" the deadbodyofKokila to Harichand. She has consumed half
ofthe poison and is dead. Harichand is disillusioned by this
tragic event. He decides to leave the Kingdom. cuts himself
off from all his relations & takes to ‘Sanyasa‘, penance.
IN'I'ERMlSSION

After fourteen years Harichand returns to Almora as a
३ mendicant He is known all over as Bholanath. He develops
spiritual powers. In Almora, he locates several points where
water is available. His fame spreads far and wide. He takes

only milkwhich is served to him by Parvati, a village woman.
who after a long wait has recently become pregnant from
Pandev. Harichand's purpose of coming to Almora is to
complete his training as a Sanyasi by taking alms from his

father and mother: if not alive, then from the nearest Kith &
kin. The Court Guard Khim Singh, however recognises him
as Harichand. He informs the leaders of various communi.
ties of Almora about his mysterious appearance in Almora

He also informs Gyanchand of the impending danger to his
throne , as Harichand is becoming popular in Almora by his
magical power to locate water springs. Even though the

palace is heavily guarded, one night Bholanath enters the
are
bed chamber of Gyanchand and Gyanwati. They both

shocked and frightened. A conference 15 held in the inner
chamber of Gyanchand and it is decided to do away with
Bholanath and Parvati and spread the rumour that she has
eloped with Parvati, and that Parvati has become pregnant

because of her illicit relations with Bholanath. It is also
decided to cut his body into eight pieces & bury them at
different points in Almora. Bholanath along with pregnant

Parvati are brutally murdered. After this gory murderAlmora
is visited by a curse. Gyanwati falls ill, she is possessed by
Parvati's soul. The town is hit from all sides by huge stones.
A Jagar is performed. Sridhar ’I‘ewari reveals the truth.

Parvati's soul speaks through Gyanwati, She orders that
eight temples should be erected at those eight points where
the pieces of Bholanath's body are lying buried. Only after
this is accepted, the soul departs. These temples of Bhairab
still exist in Almora, and people worship there.
Mohnn Upreti

