TWENTY FIVE YEARS OF
PARVATIYA KALA KENDRA

Parvatiya Kala Kendra was founded in 1968, with a
view to promote the cultural heritage of Central
Himalayan region comprising Kurnaon and G arhwal,
mentioned in Puranic Scriptures as Manas-Kedar
Khand .

First Phase: The song and dance ensemble was the

first phase of artistic grwoth of the Kendra.
Programmes consisting offolk dances and folk music
were so devised as to present the various facets ofthe
culture of the region. This helped the Kendra to cater
to the cultural needs of the fast growing migrants
from the Central Himalayan Region, and, what is of

some significance, to the needs of the new generation.
cut-offfrom its ethnic roots. These programmes soon
attained such popularity that not only voluntary
institutions in Indian cities invited the Kendra to
present these programmes but also the ICCR sent the
Kendra team to Sikkim in 1971 (when it was not a part

of India) to Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Syria and Jordan
in 1988 and to North Korea, China and Thailand in
1988.
Second Phase: The Kendra, while continuing with the
Folk Songs and Dance Ensemble, developed a strong
urge to attempt theatrical presentations of the ballads which constitute the riche cultural traditions of

the people of Manas-Kedar Khand. The first attempt
in this direction was Rajula-Malushahi, which was
followed by nine other ballads in the form ofcontemporary stage adaptations, and threeof these-RASIK
RAMOLA, HIL—JA’I‘RA and HARUHEE’I‘ for T. V. presentations, which were telecast by Doordarshan in its
national network. Rasik—Ramola has been telecast a
number of times on Doordarshan.
The other dimension during the second phase has
been presentation of the existing traditional theatrical forms. Ramlila which is a unique theatrical form
in Manas-Kedar Khand, synthesises compositions of

Tulsidas with Braj, Avadhi and Hindustani song
compositions of local poets of the region, and the
entire Ramlila is sung by the actors in compositions
based on folk music, semi-classical and classical
(Hindustani-Vocal) music for eleven consecutive
nights. Sirnilalry, Mahabharat was presented in
Hindustani and Garhwali, using Pandav-Jagar style
of Garhwal.
The other attempt was to present Amanat's “INDERSABHA” which occupies a significant place in the
development oflndian operatic theatre, and a straight

play ‘LOK DEVTA’ based on the folk lore of Kumaon.
Apart from these the Ke
व्याप्ति: heritage of
songs and literary cre tion £837ng rgo s 1

struggle for national li erata- and क्शाटेर्वी"

GANGA, which was sp ३

'LAL- G ULAB , . VAN DE ~MA’I‘RXMT'” and?!

MEGHDOQ’I‘ ofKalidas
Sahityafﬁala Iiarishad

ich were sponsored by the}
elhi.

(1);“ Fay-“NI l
्खिर्मिस्थि

emy,

ast.

Delhiﬁindi Acad- .

v

