- DELHI NATYA SANGH
Delhi Natya Sangh,- an organisation primarily devoted to promotion of

theatre activity, was established in 1950 by a small band of theatre enthusiasts.
They had in view two distinct roles for sangh--co-ordination of theatre activity
In the capital by affiliating to it all the groups working in the field and to
establish an Academy for imparting instruction and training in various branches

of drama to youngrnen and women. The inauguration of Delhi natya Sangh
was performed by the late President Dr. Rajendra Prasad on 1 st September 1950
Dr. B. V. Keskar was the first President of the Sangh,

The Sangh has stood up to the expectation of its founders. Since 1951
almost all importat theatre groups of the capital have sought affiliation with the
Sangh The number of these groups, pertaining to various languages like English,
Hindi, Punjabi, Bengali and Telugu stands presently at 64. To integrate their
activities the Sangh has been organising, in the past Cornpetittons and Festivals

of plays every year.

Over 300 performances of various plays were given

under the auspices of the Sangh in its Drama Corneptirions and Festivals during
the last 30 years of its life. Prizes have been awarded for the best production,
best actor. best stagecraft etc. In these Competitions and Festivals apart from
regional language theatre groups like U K. High Commission ADC. and American Theatre Association have also taken part. Thus, the Sangh became the
rallying point for active theatre groups representing various languages.
Apart from the above, the Sangh has been sponsoring outside programmes
independently and in collaboration with other organisations, such as :—Railway Centenary Cultural Festival.
—National Drama Festival theatre groups from all over india participated
and it was biggest venture sponsored by the Sangh.
—Miss Martha Grahm's performances.
——Song Recital by Talat Mehmood.
—Theatricals how by the Weyne State University Theatre Group from
U . S .A.
———Musical Evening—Late Shri Hussan Lal.
—Ateet Vertaman by Natya institute of Choreography.
—DNS hosted 19th Annual Convension of BNS in Delhi.
Delhi Natya Sangh in collaboration with Municipal Corporation Delhi

organised A festival of Ten Plays and Ballets at Nagar Nigarn Rangshala in Feb.March '73.
Delhi Natya Sangh represented and secured from Delhi Administration exemptionfrom entertainment Tax on performances by Amateur Theatre Groups.

DNS sponsored National School of Drama’s ’Bivion Ka Madarsa staged at
Fine Arts on 29th March ’76.
DNS arranges Festival of Plays every year
DSN celebrates World Theatre day every
Th eat re .

year

and

honours

eminent

