A BOUT ALAR IPPU
“

-

u

l

I

u

I

A larippu means “blossoming As the name suggests Alarippu sees its role as a creative group involved in
enhancing effective communication skills at the individual, group and community level.
Theatre and related methodologies are central to our work. Our aim has been and is to evolve and present
plays for awareness - raising, as relevant to specific situations and audiences. For translating our objectives
into action, training and Workshops which are intensive, creativity-oriented and participatory, are
backbone of our work. These workshops are largely experiential. Training and workshops have been conducted for —
a) Other vol-ags. so that they are able to develop their own communication group for using media like
theatre, puppetry and poster-making etc.
b) With women functionaries and development Workers.
c) With teachers who run non—formal education centres for children between the ages of5-12 yeas living
in rural areas and slums. In our work with these teachers we focus on exploring the teacher — child re»
lationship. We combine this with creative methods of teaching.
We believe that for facilitation ofall such learning-processes there is an absolute necessity to create a, trusting, fear—less and loving atmosphere which provides space for a person to grow.
Over the past 7-8 years we have evolved and performed several plays on varied and thought — provoking
themes. Such as —s

५

'

Oppression ofthe land-less by the land-lord; communal tension and religious passions whipped-up by vested interests and its effect on women in particular; minimum wages for workers in the unorganized sector;
- housing as a basic right; on rape; property rights of women; dowry; sati; devdasi system; exploring
mother-daughter relationship; on women and their supportive structures (“Sumati” ; adaptation offolk
tales for children; on the social banishment ofphysically-handicapped (“KAA TH KI GADI”).
के
Some of these plays have been broughz together in a cyclostyled format and others published in a bookformat titled “Hum Aur Hamara Kanoon” which details the legal procedures pertaining to the property rights
of women and on rape law and its implementation.
OUR FUTURE

\

With increasing experience and interactions with a large number of voluntary groups we plan on continuing and expanding our activities in the area of theatre and education. We have started moving in this direc- '
tion by bringing together/translating interesting literature etc. to provide innovative and thought-provoking
reading and audio-visual material as an incentive to continuing education.
Another step in the future is to continue and build ourselves up as a resource group to provide training to
groups interested in theatre and innovative education.
We also hope to bring out aquarterly newsletter relating to educational and cultural matters with a view to
exciting prospective readers towards continuing education.

