main strength, as it is our main weakness. What we
have to do is keep up and even develop our diversities
and yet make them serve the national good. It calls for
tolerance and broad-mindedness which is not easy to
come by.
It is unfortunate that our political leaders, instead of
inculcating this tolerance in us, are busy utilising the
inherent bigotry of the people for furthering their own
power games. It is easy to fan suspicion hatred and
strife among people of a diverse background, particularly
when they are largely illiterate as well. Our politicians
seem to be accomplishing this very efficiently.

The intelligentia of the country cannot stand by at this
critical juncture and idly watch the nation disintegrating.
As the elite of an essentially uneducated society it
behoves on the educated to stem the rot. One of the
ways of doing this is to promote a better understanding
among the different peOples of this land.

One of the main sources of irrational prejudices and
suspicions is ignorance. It is this ignorance that must
be diSpelled and this is where the role of the intelligentia
comes in.

The

ignorance

suppressing the differences

cannot

between

ignoring the diversity but by so portraying them that the
differences are shown to be harmless.
Integration
cannot be achieved through the denial of individual
cultures but the appreciation of all.
While the printed word is a cheap method of promoting
understanding, in a country like India where ilditeracy is

over 70%, the printed word has its limitations of reach.
Therefore, it is through audio-visual means primarily that
a better understanding of the various cultures in our land
can be disseminated among the people.

The Cultural Society of Rajasthan is doing its bit on the
audio-visual front by arranging every year in Jaipur a
Festival of Languages. In this Festival, the stage is the
means by which the literature of the various languages
of India is communicated to the people. Since literature
is usually steeped in the culture of the place of its origin,
the Festival of Languages also gives the people of Jaipur
a glimpse of the cultures of the various regions in lndia.
If more such Festivals are arranged in the other cities of

dispelled by

India, there is no reason why the mutual distrust among
the different peOple of India cannot be dispelled National

the peoples or

unity can thus be fostered without giving up our diversity.

be

