performance, the balcony audience always feels cheated,
even at low admission prices. Since a decent seat is stiffly
priced, the ordinary person shys away from the cultural

performance.

He would rather fork out Rs. 3/50 and

sit in the best seat in a cinema theatre.
Organisers justify the high ticket rates on the plea that
production costs are very high and since, usually not
more then one performance can be given (there is no

audience usually for a second

performance)

and the

State Government demands its pound of flesh in the
form of Entertainment Tax, there is no other go but to
recover as much money as possible from a single
performance.
It is a vicious circle : the audience does not come be-

cause of the high ticket rates and the ticket rates have to
be high because the audience is meagre and the maximum
money has to be recovered from one show. One of the
ways of
breaking this
vicious circle is to rescind
entertainment tax on stage performances. The other
means is to have repeat performances of the same
production—particularly is case of plays. I will also
emphasise the need for better pre—production publicity.
It is noticed that usually, except for the performers and
organisers and a certain coterie of culture-vultures,
practically nobody else is aware of the programmes in
Rabindra Manch. As far as the city people are concerned,
I doubt very much whether they are even aware of the
existence of the Rabindra Manch. l have never seen
them flocking to it for a cultural performance. The

local Hindi Press has only of late started giving reviews.

get into the

But it is still to

of

habit

productions as news items and giving

announcing

previews.

The

local Press can also do its bit for the promotion of the
performing arts in the city by reducing the advertisement
rates for cultural productions. There is need also for the
organisers to maintain constant liaison with rhe local
Press.
The vagaries of the State Government in the levying of
Entertainment Tax on stage productions have been, to

date, painful to the active cultural organisations of the city.
exemption has been
The Tax people rnaintatin that
granted in almost all cases. True, but to

get exemption

the organisers have to do a lot of running around, butter
up influential people and get wires pulled and even

after getting exemption there is the Damocles Sword
of the accounts of the performance being passed by the
Tax authorities. Besides the immense amount of time
wasted on

these

penalty of having

rnanouvres,

to surrender

there

is the additional

two or three dozen of

the best seats free to the tax officials and their
henchmen in the department. The criteria for exemption
have never been defined and have been dependent
mostly on ministerial or

cabarets, circus
been

exempted,

official whims. Such items as

performances
while, on

and magic

shows have

the other hand,

purely

classical dance performances have been charged tax
according to the letter of the law.
Amazingly, the tax authorities feel that any stage shows

