of the exemption an informal arrangement is proposed
to be worked out with the Rajasthan Natya Sangh,
which is the apex body for theatrical groups in the state.
The Natya Sangh will appoint an expert sub-committee
to screen out non-cultural performances front the purview
of the exemption. The Government is willing to work

upholding intellectual values, but what is intellectualism

out some such arrangement with the apex body of
organisations specialising in presenting folk and classical
music and dance performances.

limited to a few devotees and that species of officialdom

which gets free passes. The man in the street has yet to
step inside the Rabindra Manch.

The barrenness of the Jaipur cultural scene is not all due
to financial difficulties like Entertainment Tax and high

Perhaps the biggest

cost of rehearsals at the Rabindra Manch. In the field of
theatre, for example, while there is a glut of amateur

in a theatre without an audience ? Again, these complex

plays are so terribly under-rehearsed for the first perform—
ance that their reputation is marred and there is no
audience for repeat performances. l t is a bitter fact about
cultural performances in Jaipur that the audience is

disappointment,

audience-wise,

performers there are very few persons who are profess-

is the lack of response from the University. This apparent
gathering of intellectuals has failed to yield a regular
audience for cultural performances. Leave alone at the

ionally devoted to the stage. Without this professional
or even semi-professional devotion, it is difficult to
conceive of even a regular weekend theatre in Jaipur,
leave alone daily performances. Then again, there is
the prepensity of the young producers and directors to
stage rather abstract and abstruse productions which
frighten away the average audience. It is all very well

Rabindra Manch, I believe the staff members do not even
attend the performances staged in the University itself !
The general student body is a specie of cultural scum
who will scuffle for tickets to a third rate Hindi film but
steers clear of dramas staged by their own colleagues.
If they do enter the theatre it is with a preplanned intent
to hoot down the show. Could anything be worse ?

l

