can also be good drama as Utpal Dutt and his Little
Theatre have amply demonstrated. But it remains a
sine qua non, nevertheless, that the dramatist feels strongly in the first instance about the thing or theme he
seeks to propagate. In the absence of this inner convi-

main body of a viable drama movement. It is typical of
our times that the creative mind and the sensitive souls

ction and urging we may at best have a clever drama

val age used to respond. The dilemma of the modern
playwright is therefore this : how to get the society to

but there is scant possibility of its being a genuine and
great work of art. What F. N. Souza has said about
painting is largely applicable to the writing of play also ;
’Producing works of art for a limited coterie is as bad as
painting for the proletariat... ...... i do not believe that
a true artist paints for coteries or for the proletariat.

l believe with all my soul that he paints solely for
hi mse lf.’
These twin requirements, of spectators on the one hand
and of inner commitment of a playwright, constitute
the veritable horns of a dilemma. Needless to say, mere
intensity of feeling or even contemporaneity cannot
ensure a viable

play because all art involves the deft

use of some artifice and some artifacts. Poetry is pure
feeling; it can do without a plot. But drama requires not
only a plot but also a proper unfolding of it on the
stage. But this very 'orderliness' is at times found
irksorne and shackling by an author seeking free play for
his thoughts and this gives rise to a theatre of ideas or
even a theatre of the absurd.

The fact, however, remains that such playwrighting,
however intense and valid it may be, cannot form the

are doomed to feel and write for a society which treats
them with a maddening indifference which is little better
than the dungeon and the stake with which the medie~

attend its own trial ? Or, in other words. how to make
the proceedings of the trial interesting without their
bocoming meaningless ?
It is a heartening sign that some of our best brains are
out there wrestling with this problem. Various expedients are being tried ranging front the time-honoured-

but—now-wearing—thin device of a slice of life approach
to that of apparent buffoonery. Attempts have been
made to draw upon the classical tradition as also to
imbibe some of the folk theatre’s vivacity and talent for
improvisation. While we look up to the Brechtian and
other Western models, these models themselves have
for long been cross-fertilized with ideas of oriental
origin. it is a vast and singularly modern theatre movement all said and done and signs are not lacking that
audiences will rise up to meet the creative dramatic forces

on a platform of constructive and meaningful drama.
At the fringes of this movement, as far as India is concerned, we come across either inane and frothy entertainers pandering to the rather limited aesthetic and intellectual range of the nouveau riche or the dessicated

