Playwright
William Shakespeare
William, the third and surviving child of John and Mary Shakespeare was
baptized on 26 April 1 5 64. A1 lowing the usual period ofthree days between birth
and baptism, it is generally assumed that William Shakespeare was born on 23
April 564, and this is also the day on which Shakespeare breathed his last. It
requires no documentary evidence to say that Shakespeare during his childhood
observed and absorbed the life of town and village surging
all around him and, possessing a rare talent, he stored in his

mind sights, sounds, scenes and characters, which,

combined with his experience of London, would prove a
rich material at the forge of his creativity, when he came to
write poems and plays.
There is no valid reason to doubt that William was enrolled
in the local grammar school when he was six or seven year
old. His father was still a prominent citizen and an
important member of the borough council. But the school
records for the period are not available. Nicholas Rowe,
who brought out the ﬁrst edited collection of Shakespeare's
plays, wrote in his introduction that the boy studied in a free
school where "it is probable , he acquired what Latin he was
master of, but the narrowness of his circumstances, and the

want of his assistance at home, forced his father to
withdraw him from thence, and unhappily prevented his further proficiency in
that language" . John Aubrey a seventeenth-century antiquarian and biographer.

Shakespeare was an impetuous and highly romantic young man and this
conclusion gets ample support in the essential nature ofall his writings - they are
romantic through and through.

The period form 1585 to 1592 in Shakespeare's life is known as the "dark years"
or "lost years" from the biographer's point of view. For this period we have no
authentic information about the family apart from a single reference to John
Shakespeare in 1588 in connection with a legal dispute over sum of money.
According to Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare incurred the wrath of the local
landlord, Sir Thomas Lucy for stealing deer in his park and was, as a
result,

obliged to ﬂee to London.

Though there are many conjectures, yet what sounds most credible is
that
Shakespeare attached himself to one of the touring theatrical companies
that
visited the countryside during the period under consideration.

By 1592 Shakespeare's struggle had begun to bear fruit; in that year
he was
worthy enough to arouse thejealousy ofanother playwright, Robert Greene
, one
ofthe University Wits. In a letter addressed to his fellow writers and
appended to
a pamphlet called Greene's Groatsworth of Wit Bought with
a Million of
Repentance he made a scurrilous attack on Shakespeare for presu
ming to be not
only an actor but the best playwright.
It is clear that by 1952 Shakespeare had established himself
in London as an
actor and dramatist.

