About the Play
The delightful. A midsummer Night's Dream is one of Shakerpeare’s earlier plays,
and is remarkable for its adept weaving of four sub-plots into a single, satisfying
play. It was peobably written in 1595 to celebrate a court wedding of the time,
though which one has not been established. In Shakespeare's time, strange dreams
were supposed to be common in midsummer, and the title refers to the fantastical
quality of events which take place in the play. There is no single source for the
play, and Shakespeare draws freely from Ovid, Plutarch and Chaucer, among
others.
There are four major groups of characters, and the plot revolves around the
marriage of the mythical Theseus, Duke of Athens and the Amazon Queen,
Hippolyta. The Athenian Egeus has promised his daughter Hermia to Demetrius,
but she is in love with Lysander, so the two lovers escape to the forest, pursued by
Demetrius and Helena, who is in love with Demetrius. Meanwhile, in the forest,

two other groups are encountered. A band ofAthenian tradesmen are rehearsing
the tragedy of Pyramus and Thishe to be performed at the nuptials of the Duke,
and in another part ofthe forest, Oberon, King ofthe Fairies, is quarreling bitterly
with his Queen, Titania, over the custody ofchangeling boy. Puck, a mischievous
sprite, is charged by Oberon to fetch a magic ﬂower, which, when pressed on
Titania's sleeping eyelids will cause her to fall in love with the first thing she sees
on awakening. However, when Oberon and Puck discover Demetrius upbraiding
Helena for following him, Puck is ordered to place the potion on the eyes of
Demetrius. The feckless Puck puts the juice on Lysander's eyes by mistake, an
when Oberon discovers this, he anoints demetrius with the result that both young
men woo Helena. He also puts the potion on Titania's eyes, and the first person she
sees when she awakes is the weaver Bottom, who is wearing an asses head from
his rehearsal of the play. Titanis falls in love with this ridiculous ﬁgure, which

enrages Oberon, though in the confusion
he manages to acquire custody of the
disputed Changeling. Thereupon, he

। releases Titania from the spell, orders
Puck to throw a thick fog over the human
lovers, and brings them together so that
Helena is paired with Demetrius, and

Hermia with Lysander. Theseus and
Egeus appear on the scene. and forgive

the runaways, who marry. A M id-summer
Night's Dream ends with the tradesmen‘s
comically acted Pyramus and Thisbc at
the wedding ofTheseus and H ippolyta.

]6

