८…-८७८ ‘

.

[7]

tiring:-

t‘ ( ""

9 Parts ofDesrre (English/Hindi), oti
Nivas CollegeAuditorium, 1st A Cross
Road, Hosur Road, Koramangala,
September 25, 7.30 pm; Director:
lillete Dubey;The internationally acclaimed play details the lives of nine Iraqi
women that spans the decade's ३.२

between the ﬁrst and second Gulf Wars, .
and the occupation.

3- [ हँ :1

. /_

है

.

Einstein (English/Hindi), Jyoti Nivas
College Auditorium, 1st A Cross
Road, Hosur Road, Koramangala,
September 26, 7 pm; Director:
Naseeruddin Shah; A play on the life
of Albert Einstein, the famous Germanborn theoretical physicist

,

.i. _,,_ ‘

Mera Woh Matlab Nahi Tha
(English/Hindi), Jyoti Nivas College
Auditorium, 1st A Cross Road,
Hosur
Road,
Koramangala,
September 27, 7 pm; Director:
Rakesh Bedi; The play revolves
around two childhood sweethearts
who don’t mean to hurt each other, but 'दृ
eventually end up doing so.
हैं'

श्रक्या'p . श्री
pm, Director. Sharath Parvathavani;
The play is about the repercussions faced
by a family after a man and a woman
make confessions to each other.
Ranga
F-1/105
(Multilingual),
Shankara, 36/2, 8th Cross, 2nd Phase,
JP Nagar, September 27, 3.30 pm and
7.30 pm; Director. Mohit T'akalkar; A
story of a neighbourhood in a cosmopolitan locality and a couple who plan to redo
the interiors of their apartment, and the
drama that unfolds.
Ghost — The Musical (English), St
John’s Auditorium, Koramangala,
September 27, 5 pm; Director: Leila
Alvares; This timeless fantasy about the
power of love is a musical drama based
on the film of the same name.
Kari Mayi (Kannada), JSS Auditorium,
1st Main Road, 8th Block, Jayanagar,
September 27, 3 pin; The play deals with
the conﬂict between city-bred people,
who treat Goddess Karimayi as a goldfetching god, and the rural folk, who have
immense faith in the Goddess.
Na Maran (Bengali), JSS Auditorium,
1st Main Road, 8th Block, Jayanagar,
September 27, 6.30 pm; A play with a
kaleidoscope of many characters such as
a lazy king, an astute minister, a brave
rebel, God and more.
Gadiyanka Kudimudda (Kannada); KH
Kala Soudha, Ramanjaneya Temple
a couple and their relationship.
Man of the Heart (Bengali/English), JSS Compound, llanurnanthanagar, SepteAuditorium, 1st Main Road, 8th Block, mber 28, 7.30 pm; The historical play,
Jayanagar, September 26, 7 prri, based on the Chalukya period, is about
Director: Surrian Mukherjee; A multilin- saving lrnrnadi Pulakeshi from the forces
gual performance on the lite and times of of evil.
Lalon Shah Phokir, the 19th century Naguvaaga Nakku (Kannada), Ranga
Bengali Sufi saint and song-maker.
Shankara, 36/2, 8th Cross, 2nd Phase,
Vaave (Kannada), KH Kala Soudha, JP Nagar, September 29, 7.30 pm; A
पृ Ramanjaneya Temple Compound, contemporary play about a mother and
llanumanthanagar, September 27, 7.30 daughter caught between the ideologies

Bangalore One-Act Theatre Festival for
Young Adults (English), The Cathedral
High School, 63, Composite PreUniversity College, Richmond Road,
September 25, 6 pm; A theatre festival
for teenagers, with participation from '10
schools and junior colleges in the city.
Seneca’s Oedipus (English), Ranga
Shankara, 36/2, 8th Cross, 2nd Phase,
JP Nagar, September 25 (7.30 pm) and
26 (3.30 pm and 7.30 pm); Director: V
Balakrishnan; The play is about Oedipus,
who is down-to-earth, accepts fate and
knows fear.
Rajar Mrityu (Bengali), JSS Auditorium,
1st Main Road, 8th Block, Jayanagar,
September 25, 7.30 pm; Director:
Sudipto Chatterjee; A poetic and political
work that explores the cruel and tragic
dynamics of a class-based society.
E mc2 (Kannada), Kll Kala Soudha,
Ramanjaneya Temple Compound,
Hanurrranthanagar, September 26, 7.30
pm; Director: Abhishek lyengar, The
play is about a method actor who suffers
from schizophrenia.
, That Night — A Tale of Dissociative
Identities (English/Hindi), Atta Galata,
134, KHB Colony, 5th Block,
Koramangala, September 26 (5 pm and
7.30 pm); Director: Vineed Menon; A
psychological thriller that revolves around

_द्वा _

of two generations.
Kattale Belaku (Kannada), Ranga
Shankara, 36/2, 8th Cross Road, 2nd
Phase, JP Nagar, September 30, 7.30
pm: Director: innay Shastryﬂhe play is

a concrete idea of abstract consequence
and real impact, is written in 1959 by Sri ,
Ranga, and is a classic in the world of the- ,
atre

'

class Act II — Laughter Therapy ३
(English), Chowdiah Memorial Hall, ‘
16th Cross, GD Park Extension, 2nd
Main Road, Malleswararn, October 1, 7
pm; Director: Meherzad Patel; In the
sequel to The ClassAct the main characters walk into the therapy session of Dr
Bombay’s clinic to help cope with various
mental issues in their lives.
Shards of a Ute, Bangoli Art Centre, MG
Road Boulevard. October 1, 5.30 pm
and 8 pm; The play tells the story of a college student. who is hurt and is broken, ‘
and how she deals with it.
.॰

