TAGORE AND THE

SOVIET PEOPLE
G. A. SYCMlN

:ED/TOR, "SOVIET LAND”
Y

Is

Tagore's name became known in Russia much earlier than in the other countries

of Europe. The first translation of his. poems into Russian, Georgian, Armenian and Latvian
languages appeared before and soon after the award of the Nobel Prize to him in 1913.
The people. of Russia showed great interest in Tagore and 34 titles of the poet's works

Were published before the Great October Socialist Revolution.
During the soviet time Tagore's wOrks have been published 170 times in
32 languages of the SoViet Union in a total edition of seven million copies.
It is worth mentioning that Lenin had a number of Tagore's books in his
personal library, his including “Home and the World", "Personality", two c0pies of
"Nationalism" and plays, poems and prose writings.

Tagore’s interest in the SoViét Russia is Well known.
without

haying Seen the soviet Union", he used to say,

September 1930.

" I do not Wish to die
His dream came true

in

During his "brief Stay of '15 days in the USSR, Tagore saw and admired

many things, he visited many places and met people from all walks of life. " । have gained
a wealth of information here", he said at a farewell meeting, "but the main thing that l
have learnt is how a nation can find the right road to a better life".
He was highly impressed by 'the SOViet Way of life and in his "Letters from
Russia" he acquainted his 'couri't'ry ‘men with the new civilisation, that was being built in the
USSR. with the tremendous achievements of socialism, primarily in the fields of education,
The visit of Rabindranath Tagore to
the nationalities question, agriculture and others.
Soviet Russia opened a new era in the development of friendly relations between a Soviet
and Indian peoples. Up to the end of his days the great writer and thinker remained a

sincere friend of the Soviet Union.
The Soviet people hold Tagore in high esteem. They avidly read his books and
love his plays. In '1916, When Russia was being swept by pre revolutionary storms,

and progressive “Russian intellectuals were looking for a way out of the oppressive at
‘mosphere Created by 'Tsarism, Konstantin Stanislavsky turned to the writings of Rabindranath Tagore in his quest for new ways in theatre art. He chose the drama “The King of
the Dark Chamber" in which Tagore asserts that Man is the most wonderful creation on
earth. Though the play was not staged, the fact in itself is of great significance.

