Tagore's works quite a while
The Soviet theatre lovers became acquainted with
revolutionary years include those
ago. Playbills dating back to fhe first post-

announcing a

in Petrogrand (now Leningrad). A line at
rnusico-literary performance of Tagore's workes
heated". This was a great tribute to the
the bottom of the bill says : “the premises are
hungry and cold winter days, Petrograd,
poet and his popularity in those days, for in those
g against White Gurads and the
enervated by the war the Soviet peOpIe were wagin
foregin intervention had littte resources for such luxuries.
simultaneous by.
In the '205 several plays of the great writer were put out
stage was his "Sacrifice".
The first dramatic work of Tagore to be presented on the Soviet
In mid-' 503 it was staged again in Tajikistan.

In 1922 "Chitra" was staged and won

later, in 1961, when
great popularity among the Soviet peOple. We know that much
ry, a prestigious offer was
the entire Soviet country was observing Tagore's birth centena
It proved an unusual
the presentation of the ballet "Chitra" at the Kremlin theatre.
The amazing
spectacle even for Muscovites, so pampered by fine ballet productions.
anian
music—genuine Tagore music arranged for a symphony orchestra by the Azerbeaij
also
was
rding
tape-reco
A
composer Niyazi—was combined with a new choreography.
received from the All lndia Radio. Later on "Chitra" was also staged in Azerbaijan. Another
famous novel “The Wreck" was adapted for the stage and screened under a new title “The
Daughter of the Ganges" in Uzbekistan. It was also staged in the Kumyk Theatre in the
Daghestan Republic. The Kumyks are a small people, numbering about‘100,000.' But
they are a gifted peOpIe with their own poets, scientists, craftsmen, musicians and actors.

Why had the Kumyk Theatre chosen to stage Tagme's play ? Beca .ise. “Kamala’s lot is not

different from that of Daghesran's women, who won their equality fighting feudal survivals
in the peoples attitude towards women.

This Spring a musical performance of "Amethyst", a poem based on RabindraThe poem written by Eduardas
nath Tagore's verse, had been organised in Riga.
Mezhelaitis had been set to music by the well-known Soviet composer Sergei Balasanyan.
Both Balasanyan and Mezhelaitis, who are recepients of the Nehru Prize. share an intense
interest in India, its art and culture.
And, quite recently the famous “The Post Office" was received with warm
applause at the l_<hamza Drama Theatre in Uzbekistan.
These are only some instances of the popularity of Tagore’s plays in the Soviet
Union,

I would like to conclude with the words of the great reformer of modern theatre Konstantin Stanislavsky, who wrote, in 1923,. "The theatre must be one of the chief
weapons against war and an

international means of maintaining universal peace

theatre is the best means of communion among nations".

The

