T नं, ओं ,

Voices in the Dark भि
NSD students deserved the applause at the
end of the play, Naked Voices
DI PAN ITA NATH

। ‘1

NEEIAM MANSINGH CHOWDHRY’S
reading of the stories of Urdu writer
Saadat Hasan Manto resulted in the
production,Bitter Fruit,at the National
School of Drama (NSD) in Delhi last
year. Lastmonth the Chandigarh-based
theatre director returned to NSD to
workwith a freshset ofthird-year students and created NakedVoices,which,
again, used Manto’s literature to foregroundthe conditionofwornen caught
in events ofsocialturmoil.Naked Voices
was staged at NSD’s intimate
Bahumukh auditorium, which was
stripped down to bareelectrical wires,
naked lightbulbs, exposed drain pipes
and walls peeled offpaint to create an
apocalyptic atmosphere.
The play unfolded as a collage of
scenes, fragmentsand coreideas ofsto—
ries ofMantoand MaximGorky as well
as original compositions by the stu—
dent—actors. “We had no definitive
script to begin with. I saw this play as
episodic, a story emerging from another, without any obvious connec-

tion,” says Chowdhry.
The treatment,too, swung from the
realistic to the abstract. The stage was
busy with different activities. A cairn
scene of an ordinary family preparing
for the day led to the ﬂurry of a riot,
which led toa story ofa sexworkerwho
is rejected by a client and then onward
to a narrative ofa man who receives a
mysterious phone call ﬂour a woman
and then to a scene in which a young
sex worker murders a man. A
Bollywood song anddance popped up
as did the image of Mr Napkin Head
from the Hollywood ﬁlm The Holiday.
Ifthe transitions seemed seamless, it
was largely due to the students who
displayed the vigour that such a high—
energy play demanded. Every scene
had a different mood and emotional
level, which the cast successfully rendered. The acting and storytelling
would have sufﬁced in a minimalist
production. Chowdhry and scenogra—
pher Deepan Sivaraman, however, are
well—knownfor using a range ofstage—
craft to present a fulsome experience.
Among Chowdhry's signatures were
dramatic costumes (that could qualify

A scene from Naked Voices s Thyagarajan

for a fashionramp). One actor, dressed
in high-heeled boots, a jacket over
shorts. and thick lipstick, was the ern—
bodirnent ofa pimp. There was also
Chowdhry's penchant for olfactory
communication — oily smoke from a
ﬁre atthebeginning ofthe playandthe
ﬁagrance of rose petalsat the end.
Sivaraman created many of the
grim elements ofthe play. He placed a
mirror acrossa wallandstreaked itwith
dripping water to adda layer ofdilapi—
dation tothe stage.On theopposite cornerwas a half—builtwall, its cementstill
oozing between bricks. In the story of
two scavengers searchingfor food in a
rubbish pile, Sivaraman created rain

from an overhanging bar onstage, ma
nipulating thedrip ofwater from adriz
zle toa downpour.Last year. the scenographer hat
turned a warehouse at Arnbedka
University into an asylum of horror i1
his play,The Cabinet ofDrCaligan'. Bloo
had pouredfrom the tapsand addedIt
the darkness of the story. In Nake
Voices, a sequence, in which a little gi
is raped byher uncle, is signedoffth
blood gushing from the open holeof
drainpipe and spreading on the ﬂoa
As a metaphor,this feltinsensitive. Suc

“effect” belong to drarnatisation i
crime on televisionnews, not a gende
sensitive play.

