Continuing collection. Searching for and
acquisition of archival materials and recorded/ photographed documentation of
contemporary, perforrnative practices has

xeroxing facilities to member-readers. Cornputerization of the archival material will improve retrieval/access considerably and fa—
cilitate investigation and research.

to continue with the involvement/ participa-

tion of young experts and research scholars
in the field under the supervision of senior

scholars and authorities; necessitating tours
and field surveys all over the country. Audio
and video and filmed documentation of
long interviews with major contemporary
theatre personalities building up to a comprehensive 'recorded' treasury of contemporary theatre could be an invaluable point
of reference for any research into any
area of lndian theatre.
Publication.

‘Rangauarta’, the Sansthan's

newsletter, highlights the Sansthan's collections and activities, and covers theatre debates and discussions and polernics in depth,
and can be identified as ajournal of ideas in
theatre. The Sar13tl1a41's publication
programme, with several monographs in the
pipeline, needs both personnel and financial
inputs to expedite and increase the quantum
of publication.

Talks and Seminars and Extension lectures.
Talks and Seminars and Extension Lectures,

now irregularly organized, need to be presented more regularly so that the institution
is able to contribute towards a wider dissemination of the aesthetic values and ideals that
lndian theatre has to offer to its viewers and
practitioners alike. Aimed at different levels,
they can introduce younger people to the
best in theatre, give practitioners lessons and
ideas that could enrich their work, let viewers

assess their responses/reactions to theatre
by sharing notes with fellow viewers — adding up to the development of a theatre culture .

Research. While the Sansthan so long has
offered scholars facilities for research, it
should now undertake, sponsor and commission research projects aimed at closer
study and evaluation of bodies of their own ‘
holdings and fresh collections.

Library and archives. Library resources and
facilities even on the general level remain
woefully inadequate in India. The Sansthan
hopes to develop its library and reference
section (attached to the archives) to the
national repository of theatre books and
periodicals. With the prices of books reaching astronomical figures, they are already
beyond the bounds of individual scholars,
researchers and theatre workers. A fully sustained 'library liberally enriched with the lat—
est publications, would serve as lndian

theatre's only window to fresh ideas from all
over the world. The library already offers

‘Shuturmurg', I 967 by Anamika, Calcutta.

