Director’s Note
We once again place

before you two of our new

productions. In our effort to make theatre a continuous, sustained and rewarding struggle for ourselves
as well as for the audience, who have been our greatest source of strength, the encouragement we receive
is our pride. At a time when not only theatre, but
perhaps society as well, is passing through a crisis,
this process is often hard, sometimes impossible. But
only apparently.

What we are putting before you are

not just the plays, but the entire, untiring, dedicated,
struggle of the group.

There always are the one or

two who lack dedication,
them all.

For theatre,

but

ultimatelv,

theatre

assimilates

is truly secular, not

only in a narrow, religious or ideological sense, but at
the larger remove of integrating into it, accepting,
affection, criticism, forms - like painting, music, dance,

disciplines which come alive intuitively and visually
on the stage. Traditions are changing, even in the
city, and theatre truly reacts to this change, capturing
it in the multiple facets of its activity.

At a time when

society is becoming increasingly non secular, at a time
when patronage to the arts is declining among those
who traditionally were projected as its patrons, it is very
heartening for us to experience the emergence of new,
more sensitive people, who understand the secularism

of theatre, and come to its aid. It is people like this
who will always keep theatre alive, and, as long as
theatre lives, there is

Campus Theatre has great pleasure in inviting you
to a new experiment, designed by Syed lrfan and
executed by lrfan and Pravin Jha, of holding a poster
and

photograph exhibition.

hope, not only for theatre, but

also for the society in which it exists.
We welcome all of you to these performances.

Your

presence means more to us than words can express.

If you have enjoyed it,

we are amply rewarded for the effort, and it will be

SAC H l N TEWAR l

our endeavour to make it a permanent feature.

for Campus Theatre.

