CAMPUS THEATRE

1.

Founded by a handful of dedicated people over
twelve years ago Campus Theatre has made its
steady contribution to the city. lt has sought to recover the glory of Allahabad as a centre of literature and

culture, and has succeed in at least bringing back the
city on to the cultural map of lndia. In addition to its
own productions the presentation of Adhe Adhure,
directed by ShyamanandJalan of Padatik, Calcutta,

The running of a theatre workshop with nur-

sery school children at the Bishop George Nursery,

which will end in a performance by children of
Alibaba Forty Thieves. Campus Theatre intends to
make this an annual feature, adopting a differant nursery each year.

2. The revival of Walting for Godot with the
present boys of St. Joseph’s College for its Centenary.
3.

Support for theatre activity in any form.

and a festival of three plays of the Madhya Pradesh

Rang Mandal brought to theatre audiences in Allahabad lthe works of renowned directors lrke B. V.
Karanth, Fritz Bennewitz and Alakhnandan thereby
creating theatre history.

None of all this would have been ~possible but for
the support Campus Theatre has received

particular.

The group takes this opportunity to thank

each one of you for your encouragement.
Campus Theatre believes

in exposing its artistes

and its audiences to new experiments in the theatre,
and thanks its audience for tor the enthusiastic support

it gave to, two of its ventures which were concerned
with performing the first plays of two playwrights :

the first was Nikhat Kazrni’s

If Shakespeare was a

Gas (1983), and the other was Mangilal Sharma's
Elkar (4, 5 August 1984), which used the folk form.
Both were excellently received. Campus Theatre is
perhaps the only group in the city to encourage and
introduce new playwrights in performance.
Campus Theatre does not believe that theatre can
exist in isolation from the society to which it belongs.

That is why its efforts have been to provide a platform
of expression to the talent of the community. ' Further,

to execute its responsibilities better to society it has
undertaken :

from the

community in general, and each one of its audience in

