५. ,हैं ._> )

SCENE ONE
Manju, the maid in Anjana Padbidri’s house, is ironing clothes, when Virnala, the cook,
ushers Manju’s brother, Shankar, and her mother in. Shankar has arrived from their family
village on an important mission. He has come to know that Manju’s daughter is coming of

age and the ceremony is going to be held in Pune. He persuades Manju to celebrate it in the
village so that all the family members can participate.
Shankar upsets Vimala by his rough behaviour.
SCENE TWO
Anjana Padbidri and her friend, Kitty Mallick, discuss the voluntary work Anjana is doing for
Karunashraya, the hospice for terminal cancer patients. An outsider called Prabhakar
Deshrnukh comes to meet Anjana’s husband about a job in his office but finds he hasn’t yet
returned from abroad. Kitty furtively asks Prabhakar to meet her separately in a CCD outlet
later.
Anjana’s mother-in-Iaw, Anusooya, is visiting from another town, and since she has never
seen a race course, decides to visit the one in Pune, accompanied by a Mr Shitole.
Kitty notices the tension between Anjana and her son, Ku na I, who instead of concentrating
on his education is planning to be a guitarist in a local band.

SCENE TH REE
Anusooya on her very first visit to the races gets addicted to horse-racing. Against the advice
of Shitole, she bets all her money away. Then she borrows some more from Brigadier
Mallick, husband of Kitty, whom she happens to meet there. She pleads with the Brigadier
not to reveal to her family that she has borrowed money from him.
SCENE FOUR
Kitty meets Prabhakar at a CCD outlet and promises him a job with Wipro in their Singapore
office, since she knows Azirn Premji personally. But she insists that Prabhakar will have to
give up his present job and send his wife and child back to the town they came from, before
he will be considered for the post. He agrees.
SCENE FIVE
Anjana is talking on the phone to her husband, who is always away.
She has discovered that without her knowledge Vimala, the cook, has been working in the

house of another lady called Saroj Dhaygude Patil and has now been accused of stealing a
valuable necklace worth around three lakhs.

SC E N E S lX
Prabhakar’s wife, Manisha is unwilling to go back to the village but with Kitty’s support (on
the mobile) he persuades her.
SC E N E S EV E N
At the Police Station, Saroj says she has been investigating Virnala’s past and can prove that
she has lied about everything---- her name, religion, marital status. The Police Inspector

