sends a Head Constable and a Lady Constable with Kunal to do a search of Vimala’s house,
and Vimala manages to completely mislead them. Kunal discovers that Vimala is a
consummate liar and is thrilled by her daring.

SCE N E E I G HT
In the village, the corning-of-age ceremony of Manju’s daughter is on. Manju’s brother,
Shankar, gets drunk and accuses his mother of willfully leaving him behind and taking Manju
with her to the city in their childhood. He blames her for preferring Manju and her family to
his and even starts beating her up. Manju’s husband intervenes, but the ceremony is in
shambles and everyone leaves without even eating.
SCE N E N l N E
Kunal tracks down Virnala in another part of the city and tries to persuade her to come back
to work as a cook. She prevaricates and asks him not to follow her.
SC E N E TE N
Prabhakar, who has spent a lot of money in preparation for his new job, comes to the Wipro
office for the interview arranged by Kitty and finds that there is no interview, no job.

SCE N E E LEVE N
Manju reveals to Anjana that Vimala has hired out her gas cylinders as well as kitchen
utensils to a neighbouring family without Anjana’s knowledge. Anjana is horrified and
Ma nju gets Vi ma la’s job as the cook.

SC E N E TWE LVE
An usooya almost has a fluke win at the races and i n he r excitement falls down i n a faint.
SCENE THIRTEEN
Prabhakar confronts Kitty with her trickery. Instead of accepting the blame, she turns on
him and accuses him of having humiliated her by not having waited in the Wipro office long
enough for her to sort things out. She says she has lost the friendship of the Premji’s as a
result. As Prabhakar is about to leave Kitty’s husband, Brig. Mallick enters. Upon asking who
the gentleman was, Kitty dismisses that it was someone who was there to meet Anjana.

SCENE FOURTEEN
Virnala comes to Manju’s house to tell her she has seen Shankar: he is in Pune, working as an
autorickshaw driver, living incognito. She further claims that he has been involved in a
drunken brawl, has been beaten up and landed in a hospital. But she refuses to reveal the
name of the hospital, as a revenge for Manju’s ’betrayal’ in stealing her job. Manju’s mother
is heart—broken and cries out to Manju to search for her brother’s whereabouts.

SCENE FIFTEEN
Anusooya tells her grandson that she is perfectly content not to have won the race as she
feels God revealed Hirnselfto her in that flash of excitement.
She also reveals that Anjana was a beautiful singer once and feels that Kunal’s father—

