nay, insisted that we must stage some plays as well. So, on his initiative a literary
organisation was almost overnight turned into a drama club.

The first drama we staged was ‘Amaar Mati’wan adaptation of a shOrt story
by 'Narayan (Jangopadhy.

The shortcomings of both adaptation by an inexperienced

dramatist like myself and acting by equally incompetent bunch

of artists were out-

weighed by sheer enthusiasm. This drama was followed by ‘Private Employment
Exchange’ soon after. But Prafulla Biswas left Delhi in 1958 for some African
country on official duty.

Our dramatic activities also came to a temporary halt.

He

came back by the end of 1960 and once again started instigating us to stage a play.
However,
That year Bengalee Club started its annual One Act Drama Competition.
it was too late to participate that year. So we participated in 1961 competition. The
play chosen wes ‘Diary’—-an adaptation by Amar Hore of a short story of Banaphool.
This play was quite appreciated by the public. This initial success soon prompted us
,to stage some more new plays. Although Prafulla Biswas left Delhi soon afterwards,

our enthusiasm got momentum day by day.

We even organised our first public

performance at NDMC auditorium in early 1962.

By this time a few

more

enthusiast young men like Ajoy Chatterjee, Subroto Sen, Dalip Saha joined the
club.

After the departure of Prafulla Biswas the onus of directing the plays fell on
Amar Hore, which he carried out efﬁciently uninterrupted till 1968.

During 1961 to 1964 Shoni Chakra staged only short plays. Some of them
made permanent imprint on public mind like Jhumur, Ghum Nei, Samudro-o-Manus
etc.
A further batch of promising young men joined the club by then like
Dipak Ghosh, Utpal Mukherjee, Aloke Kar, Sanjay Sen, Harishankar Pal, Amal
Biswas etc.
In 1964, Shoni Chakra turned a corner stone.

In this year the club staged

its ﬁrst full length drama ‘Iabonakta’ and also got the club registered. The club
was placed on a stronger footing. Since then it has. never looked backed, Many
outstanding performances were staged, both short plays and full length dramas——
‘Politics’, ‘Dwiper Raja’, ‘Dinanto’, ‘Keya Kunja’,
‘Sher Afghan’,
‘Gateman’, Jyathamoshai

‘Faryad’,

some of the noted plays I remember at random. By this time our rank and ﬁle were
also strengthened by some bright and budding young artists Samarendra Bannerjee.

Satyen Bose, A'maresh Ganguly, Sunil Ghosh, Tapan Sengupta, Samarendu
Banerjee, Jayanta Das, Maya Hore (then Bannerjee). We also found among ours-elves
an expert stage craft hand in Ajit Dutt.

