DIRECTOR'S NOTE
A few years ago I spent three days working with a well
known author on a detailed interview that probed the roots
of his writing. It was the sensitivity of the authors work, his
capturing of the transitory nature of all relationships, the
movement from loneliness to companionship, that had
endeared his writing to me. It was only on the third day that

in passing he talked for the first time about having a sister
who was mentally challenged and who had lived with him
at home all through his childhood. This information came as
a surprise to me, as she was markedly absent from all of his

writing, which is largely autobiographical.
For many years this information haunted me. I began to
believe more and more firmly that in a way the writer had
killed his sister — metaphorically. Like all other disabled

people in our society, she was made invisible. This play of
Jaywant Dalvi’s came into my life at around the same time.
| read of it in a review of Bombay theatre, and was excited
by the possibility of exploring this theme.
Not that RISHTE NAATE is a play about disability or a
message play at all. It is the sensitive relating of the
complexities that face all of us in India in the 1990’s.

Kathdhare and Shailaja’s middle-class existence is fraught
with tension—not being able to afford to move out of two
rooms in a chawl, having to make ends meet, dealing with
the hustle bustle of daily life, the grind of the office and
home routine, not even able to snatch a few moments of

togetherness. Neither does Shailaja’s office provide any
space - the drone of the typewriter, petty office politics and
promotions, covertly passed pornographic pictures - Jaywant

Dalvi etches all of these from first hand observation. And
escalating all this tension is the fact the Kathdhare and
Shailaja’s child is mentally challenged and a fast developing
adolescent. This poses an even greater challenge to the family
in many new ways.
How does one cope? How does one find the space for oneself?

How does one reach out to a spouse who is becoming a
different person, withdrawing further and further into his

shell? Does one look outside of marriage for another
relationship of substance? Does the secret lie in changing
ones ट आँशांड to the situation, of taking control?
The plays deals with these and many other questions, and
leaves us the richer, more aware and certainly more

optimistic at the end of the experience.

