DEATH AND MORE...
Our Royal history has always been in demand by the world theatre for their

varied themes and vibrant plots. Fascinated by the pulsating events whose
meaning looms large because the protagonists were large and legitimate. In
case ofthe Moguls of India, they positively usurp the stage; they even created
their own stage setting in a work of art instantly recognizable to almost
everyone on earth … the mausoleum ofthe Taj Mahal.
Even though the Taj is such a marvel, it could serve as a backdrop to the

the marriage of a Mogul princess and also, because ofher father, who was in
love with her. Her father Shah Jahan, the emperor who had an interest in

architecture from the age of ﬁfteen, who was essentially not the best emperor
but deﬁnitely paved the way for an era which became the golden period of
Mogul art and architecture. Such indulgence made him ignore his sonsAurangzeb and Dara (in fact he was partial to Dara and not to Aurangzeb).

It is all there, embodied in Mogul art and architecture, in India the Mogul past
does more than linger; it overwhelms. Travellers inevitably wonder at the
Red Forts of imperial Delhi and Agra, whose massive sandstone walls still
enclose exquisite palaces and mosques, along with halls ofpublic and private
audience inlaid with amethyst and carnelian. Yet nowhere is the mystery of
the Moguls more palpable than in the presence ofthe Taj Mahal. Ostensibly a
tomb ofan empress, it became the tomb ofan entire dynasty जि a transcendent
embodiment ofglory and doom.

The whole play has nearly three plots running simultaneously. The last stage
of Shah Jahan depicted or rather explored as not the young, vibrant, violent
and passionate emperor but as an old and diseased one whose passionate life
gets revealed through his children Dara, Jahanara, Aurangzeb and others.
Then the common man's day-to-day life story through which the Royal &
explicit activities are being revealed and the third plot is how a youngster
named Faizul, a man who is aspiring to get a job in the Royal army, but gets
submerged into being a copulate of sexuality for princess Roshanara. One of
the highlights of this play is the commonality of the problems and the
situation/condition ofa war soldier ofthe Moguls and oftoday's soldier on the
war ground. The play ends with a long soliloquy by an old man, who could be
anyone, the dying emperor, or the father of a dead soldier, but through his
speech he makes a self analysis and journeys through the pathetic violence
and bloodshed of that period — managing to get the shape of the tomb right.
Alas the last perfectionist touches by an old man towards Taj—his agony and
ecstasy ................ ?

Shah Jahan and his son Dara were the last emperor and a prince who could
visualize Islam and Hinduism to complement each other for the ultimate
growth of humanity as a whole. Here we try to project Aurangzeb and Dara
with all the juxtaposing characteristics in their subtleties and susceptibilities.
Of course the former is a strict follower of the Quran and the latter a mild,
tolerant and reformist Sufi.

Whatever Taj is, it seems native to India; an enigma embracing its own history
yet curiously impervious to any moment in time. The Mogul suggests
endurance beyond now or
then, beyond the tide-less
Jamuna River that seeps at its
foundations.
A freakish

Moguls enigmatic origin. and the enormity oftheir rise and fall. Their dynasty
effectively ruled India for less than two hundred years but the impact still
haunts the subcontinent. Relentless nomads, the Moguls swept to conquest in
l 526 as aliens — Moslems in a predominantly Hindu land, which has suffered
mi Ilennia of parochial turmoil. Yet they were the geniuses that uniﬁed India;
they hypnotized her, they branded her, they left their legacy in a sequence of
events, which reflects their charisma.

pattern of impermanence.
The whole play is shown through the common man‘s angle as to what actually
went wrong in the making ofthis country. The historical war, which changed
the course of Indian history, is the climax scene ofthis play. Aurangzeb being
a staunch believer of the Shariat and Dara one of the most liberal minded
Muslim prince and merged between them Jahanara who yearned for love,
which was out of her reach due to an ancient imperial decree which forbade

Three hundred and more
years of history can be seen
as Gandhi stood in this
garden and saw the Taj in his

way—a s a sy mb o l o f
oppression.

