DIRECTOR
Abhilash Pillai
After graduating in Theatre Arts from Calicut University and a Three Year

have been Anita Pratap's Island of Blood which was showcased in the

Post Graduate Diploma in Theatre Arts from the National School of Drama,

festivals in Berlin, Japan and Bharat Rang Mahotsava, Delhi. He was also one

New Delhi with distinction in Design and Direction, he also did a Two-year

of the ﬁve participating Asian directors/designers who had collectively
directed the Memories ofA Legend based on Baburnarna produced by Japan

Diploma in Theatre Production and Stage Management from The Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA), London in 1998.
His NSD production, C .N. Sreekantan Nair's Lanka Lakshmi, a story about

king Ravana's grandeur and greatness - in Hindi, was noted for its innovative

inputs and individualistic directorial style.
He has designed about twenty-ﬁve plays in India and abroad including
Nagawanti for TARA Arts, London, directed by Jatinder Verma for the 50th
year of I ndia's Independence and Edinbrough Festival.

Foundation.
He has worked with theatre students at various institutes and Universities in
both India and abroad like: a month long 'Production Oriented Theatre Work
shop‘ for the students at Ninasam Theatre Institute, Karnataka; Karna in

collaboration with a Korean actor; Shakuntalam, Kalidasa’s Sanskrit Play
in Russian with Russian Academy of'l‘heatre Arts (GITIS) at Moscow ; Holi
by Mahesh Elkunchwar in Hindi & Punjabi for Theatre Department,
Chandigarh ; C.N. Sreekatan Nair's Saketam with the students of Thrissur

He also participated in various international seminars as a delegate from India
such as the International Seminar on ‘Elements in Advanced Theatre
Direction' at London. He has conducted theatre workshops for 22
international theatre practitioners in Tokyo, Japan in 2001 and in the Nationa 1
Academy of Theatre and Films at Soﬁa, Bulgaria in 2002. His other notable
work in London was a project with Gavin O Shea, Bea Hut and Maya Rao for
a multimedia production titled Departures on the theme ofAsian immigrants
- for LIFT 99 (London International Festival ofTheatre 1999).
His designs for Bertolt Brecht’s The Job under the direction of Maya Rao for

School of Drama ; U rubhangam with the students of Ninasam and Birugali
(based on Shakespear’s Tempest) translated by Kevumpu in Kannada for
Ninasam Repertory Company in Karnataka. His Midnight's Children by
Salman Rushdie, a multilingual (Indian languages) & multimedia production
for the final year students ofNational School ofDrama had its very successful
Europe premiere in May 2006 in Biennale Bonn festival, Germany.
His other productions include C.S. Deepan's Palm Groove Tales (based on
'The Legend of Khasak’ by O.V. Vijayan) a Malayalam play, Things can
Change in a Day, based on Arundhati Roy's 'The God of small things’;

an International Theatre Festival at Copenhagen, Denmark was noted for its

Verdigris (based on Takazi Shivshakar Pillai's 'Klave') produced by
experimental uniqueness.
Another major contribution was
designing and assisting in
direction for Tinka Tinka, a
Hindi play on the trials and
tribulations of the earthquake
victims in Gujarat - directed by
Prof. Kirti Jain.
Among his most successful
directorial

ventures

in

India

iझाहैहैंश्ली i

Abhinaya Theatre Research Centre. Thiruvananthapurarn ; Aeschylus'
Prometheus Bound at National School of Drama ; Ant Anant about the
eternal ending of communal riots in India — also in Hindi for the NSD
Repertory Company.

He has written a book published by Kerala Sahitya Academy on the works of
C.N. Shreekantan Nair.

Abhilash Pillai has been a Lecturer of Acting, Design, Direction and allied
Subjects at NSD for the last three years. He is also on the visiting faculty at
various Universities and institutes in India and abroad.

