K. K. NAYYAR

AGAIN AFTER 2,409 YEARS !
Sophocles’ Antigone was ﬁrst performed in Athens in 441 B. C. Several
translations and adaptations of this great work in different languages have come into
being since then. Noteworthy among them is the one by Jean Coctealu, which was
ﬁrst produced in Paris at the Atelier Theatre in 1922 with scenery painted by Picasso
and music composed by Honegger.
In our country Antigone has gone to the stage in varying forms at some principal
centres of theatre activity. In Kanpur Antigone ascends the stage for the ﬁrst time.
For this production we have chosen Wasi Khan’s urdu version of the adaptation of
the original play by Jean Anouilh.

Antigone is a problematic piece of work.

It probably requires an effort of

historical imagination to understand a Greek playwright of the ﬁfth century before
Christ, whose works have come to us in the form of adaptations and versions.

Sophocles made this play an outstanding work by balancing, not right and
wrong, but one right against another. A conﬂict of such nature is far more subtle
and human than that between good and evil. For Sophocles the idea of humanity is
more fundamental than law, as law was made for man and not vice versa.

die rather than deny this idea are saints or heroes, champions of humanity.
is one such. She stands for human values against contemporary state-craft.

Those who

Antigone

The play is not a full-length portrait of Antigone. It is a double story that of
Antigone and Creon. Though Antigone suffers, her sufferings result in
the tragedy
of Creon.

‘

Antigone’s story follows the more famous story of her
father, OediPUS, the

king of Thebes, who killed his father and married his
own mother. Oedipus, in a
supreme act of self punishment blinded himself and abdicate
d with the decree that his

sons, Eteocles and Polynices, would rule alternate years.
After his year had elapsed,
Eteocles refused to give up his position. Polynices fought for
the throne. In a single
combat the two brothers killed each other. Creon
then, became the king and gave
Eteocles honourable burial.

But he left the rebel brother Polynices to rot in the
open.

Antigone’s family devotion makes her offer her whole
being for her brother’s honour.

