KRISHAN GOPAL

“ABID”

Sophocles and his Philosophy
Sophocles, the Greek tragic poet was born at Colonus, near Athens. He shared
fully in the civic life of Athens and may have been sent on several diplomatic missions.
At the age of 55 he was appointed a general and served in the war. He was universally
beloved in Athens. His genius was unbowed by age. His great “Oedipus” was written
when he was about 90. In his plays and his life he represents the ﬁnest of Greek
classical traditions.
Of his many minor poems and over a hundred plays, only seven tragedies haVe
survived. His plays have simplicity, harmony and grandeur. The spectator watches
the supreme crisis in the destiny of an individual.
Sophocles had great faith in man. He accepted the gods. But for him ‘there is
far more in life than piety’. One individual hero becomes his microcosm; into him all

his tragic thinking is projected.

His philosophy of a tragedy was to end disastrously

for a hero who is engaged in some moral struggle involving his dignity as a human
being. A tragic drama aims at inspiring us with ‘pity and awe’. The characters in his
dramas are involved in such circumstances that impel them towards an unhappy fate.
Aristotle based his famous ‘theory of tragedy’ mainly on his works ‘that it purges
the emotion through pity and horror’.

The purpose of tragedy with Greeks and specially with Sophocles was to effect a
“Catharsis” or ‘a purgation of the emotions’. For him “tragedy puriﬁed the feelings.
It raised the audiance morally and spiritually”.

The story in Sophocles tragedies is well knit. It allows to convey
its own moral.
Though sometimes it is stated at the end of the play by one of
the characters. In none
of his drama wrong did triumph, though right may have worsted
for a time, the wrongdoers are punished if they had not already brought about their
own undoing, and sometimes a good comes out of evil.

The persons in his plays are most skilfully adopted to the situatio
n and action of
each play. He introduced a third actor into the stage for the
ﬁrst time, an innovation
that allowed the play to move more quickly. It enabled
him not only to contrast
opposed natures, such as Antigone and Creon, but to introduce
ﬁner shades of difference
in character, as between Antigone and Ismene.

