7

Our State Governments’ apathetic and at times antipathetic attitude has been
constant source of discouragement to healthy and strong theatre movement being built
up in this region. The burden of heavy entertainment tax completely cripples the

incentive in theatre product.

If the theatre is to grow into a sturdy plant, plenty of

fresh air, sunlight and freedom of growth are required. We extremely grateful to
Dr. B. Gopala Reddi, Governor, Uttar Pradesh who has given us a sigh of relief in
lifting this huge tax.
Theatre movement in Uttar Pradesh is still in its infancy, and needs great support.
it is essential that the government should not only withdraw the crippling entertainment
tax on theatre performances, but should give active support to build a live and healthy
theatre movement. Financial assistance to deserving theatre groups and building of
auditoriums which could be hired out to theatre groups at resonable rates are the minimum, the State Government could do in this regards. The need for a theatre institute
in U. P., a workshop where aspirants could learn the art and craft of theatre has long
been felt. The Government should lend its support and patronage to efforts aimed in
this direction.
Cultural activity in Kanpur can broadly be devided into two categories viz. programmes sponsored by impressariors and productions staged by drama groups. There
has mostly been a spurt of impressario activity in recent years. An unfortunate tendency
is developing here to invite celebrities in increasing numbers. The result is that programmes of Shakila Banu Bhopali, Md. Rafii, Ali Akbar Khan, Pt. Ravi Shanker and

Gopi Krishan etc. are repeatedly arranged in the city. Consequently the lesser known
artists are usually ignored and get no chance to show their skill, This thwarts the
development of pure theatre.
‘Darpan’ stands for a growiag healthy theatre synthesising the new trends with
the best of the old traditions. Darpan has always been on the fore-front of theatre
activities in Uttar Pradesh and again with the present production it maintains the lead
in staging the ﬁrst play of the season outside Kanpur.

