—E ditor

THEY MAKE

THE PLAY

(It is very rare when the feelings of the persons who pool their eﬂorts towards
play are taken into account. For theﬂrst time an eﬂort to this eﬂect has been made. It
bably be of interest to the theatre goers to share the experience of those who make the play.
the impressions of the personal feelings of the participants (J the stage production of
which the Editor could record by personal interviews.)

stagingJ a
will proHere are
Antigone,

“Conscious of my physical limitations, when I was a~ked to pertray the King
Creon, I was overwhelmed. At the same time I had certain reservations in my mind.
It is a difﬁcult role, I think the most difficult of all; in fact the most complicated role I
have ever played. Am I the hero? Probably I am. But I am certainly not the villain.
I long for the moments when somebody tells me you have lived it !
Rakesh Verma as ‘ KING CREON ’
Seven years ago I ﬁrst went to the stage as Kamini. Since then I have played
roles of varying nature with some success. I had heard of Antigone but I never imagined that I COULD be Antigone.
Today I am Antigone—the virgin martyr. Probably I am of that age. But
portraying the feelings, emotions and convictions of the rebel princess, who placed
family devotions above all is a ‘job’. I am feeling as Antigone and putting my soul
into it.

Let me be her ! ”
Praveen Atal as ‘ ANTIGONE ’

The whisper in my ears and a ﬁnger towards me, ‘she can play Ismene’——made
me a little bit alert. But the next moment I laughed at myself thinking~“How can it
be possible? How can a woman, who has played different roles in Bengali stage only,
dare play such an important role”? But to my own surprise I said, “ Yes !” Soon I
began to imagine myself a sophisticated, digniﬁed and beautiful elder sister of the Greek
Princess, with all her worldly weaknesses and here I am before you
sincerest efforts.

with all my

Purnitna Sen Gupta as ‘ ISMENE ’

“Being a mother, it is not difﬁcult for me to portray effection for
princesses Antigone and Ismene. But the complication lies in the fact that
their mother. I am just Dai Maa-the palace maid who gave mother’s love to
princesses. In my role what perplexes me is the unpredictable attitude of

the young
I am not
the young
Antigone.

