13
She does. love tne but does .not take me into confidence as to what she
intends to do and
why. With all these limitations and complexities 1 am portraying
the simple Dai Maa.
To what extent I succeed in doing so I leave it for you to judge.
Mrs. Surendra 'I‘ewari as ‘ Dai Maa ’

~
“Haemon ! a prince of determination, love and revolution, little sophistic
ated.
little stylish, 18 of the modern style, certainly not, but, of the two thousand
ﬁVe hundred ’
and ﬁfty years ago, a Greek style. Do the performance represent the
past? 1 don’t
know, how do you like it !”
Krishna Gandhi as ‘ Haemon ’

“I am an humble actor. I have been taking part in Dramatic performances since
my very childhood. I have rneeted different roles. and 1 am glad to mention here that
my roles were liked by my audience. At the time of acting I forget myself altogether
and merge into the role. This time 1 will be playing the role of a ‘Pehredar’ who is a
devoted to his duty I cart and soul and who is not afraid of anything in the world except
his wife. I hope to live up to the expectations of my'audience through this role of a
Pehreda r.
Surendra Tewari—as ‘Jonas (Pehredar I) ’
“It is my maiden appearence on the stage. Though, it is shorter role than that
of others in the present concert, yet it cart prove even miracle for my stage life to begin
with this role as a Pehredar”.
Raghunandan Mathur as ‘ Pehredar II ’
“AN'I‘IGONE, is before you in which I, an ambitious student who has love for

singing and acting, am playing a role of a favourite Pehredar of the King. The soldier
who believes in ﬂattery of the King and also to his own wife who is more than a boss for
him. I hope that you will appreciate my work though it is a small one.
J. V. Rao as ‘ Pehredar III ’
“Tragic love, blood and death—I shiver at the mere mention of these words. And
in my present role I am required to paint a picture in these very colours. I am not new
to the stage. I have played many roles—but light, frivolous and funny. The present
one is the ﬁrst serious role I have ever got. The offer was risk. Some friends apprehended that the audience might laugh at my tears. But I’m sure that the theatre lovers
are not so nit-imaginative, unsympathetic and inconsiderate
Are they?”
Santos]: Srivastava as ‘ Mukhbar ’

“Those who claim to know me better than I do, say thatthe ‘Theatre is Satya
Murti’s ﬁrst love’. I wonder if it is a compliment, but I only Wish it to be true. I do
feel that way.
The last decade of my humble efforts to bring up the Theatre movement in Uttar
Pradesh has given me conﬁdence to undertake production of the so called ‘lIIlpOSS'lbic
plays’. Yes—many a group may not even attempt Antigone. Why have we? The
Theatre in Uttar Pradesh, in my opinion, should now look mature, think mature, and
act mature. It goes to the credit of

Darpan to have staged

the Greek

tragedy,

Raja

Oedipus and now comes Antigone, another Greek tragedy by Sophocles. Probably no
other group in U. P. would have done it. Great works pose a great _ challenge. One
must have courage and conviction to accept it. We are amateurs, so in. many ways we
are handicapped. What then is the source. of our strength?———Our faith in playing
neat and playing well. Antigone does have this strength”.
Satya Murti—‘ Director Darpan ’

