RA N G‘AKAB M E E
RANGAKARMEE was formed in January, 1976, with
fundamental objectives of Promoting a socially conscrous and reSponsible theatre movement, producing
those dramas which irreSpectives of political views,
will be useful to the society. Presenting such socially
responsible dramas among the common peeple in
metmpolitan such theatre to reach a wider audience
so that Hindi theatre can become mass. based.
RANGAKARMEE also started a conscious effort of
collaboration between Hindi Group Theatre workers
and experienced Bengali Group Theatre as well as
other Language Group Theatre Workers
_In these
15 Years of intense dedicated activities we have
produced 15 successful productions including one
Street Play and staged our plays almost all
over India, as we have staged our plays among
thousand workers of KIRI
BURU IRON ORE

MIVES.

We have staged our productions at many

places which includes Darjeeling Er Siliguri Drama
Festival, All India Police meet, W. B. Chief Minister
Drought Relief Fund, Expo. ’82“. Janvadi Lekhak .
Sangh, Gorky Sadan Festivals, Trade Fair Authority
of India, Delhi; All India Youth Federation, Durgapur,
and before Iakhs of workers of CESC and Textile Mills.
We also organised many a Drama Festivals with the
help of Regent King. Charms, Anamika, Theatre Workshop Gandhar and Charvak

We also participated in many Drama Festivals such as
Hindi Drama Festival at Patna All India Drama
Festival at Dehradoon (Organised by U. P Sangeet
Natak Academy) Behrarnpore Theatre Festival, Drama

Festival organised by W. B. Govr. for Calcutta 300 yrs.
All India Wornens Festlvai at Delhi, (organised by
Trade Fair Authority of India), Expression Womens
Theatre Festival. Bombay and many more festivals. In
all the places the plays were highly appreciated for its
simplicity, on standing social value, team work and a
new type of approach to Theatre.
Four of our productions have been awarded by the
West Bengal Government and different societies. Our
Primary aim in putting Up plays like Parichay,GuriaGhar, Jaat Hi Puchho Sadhuki, Mother, Mahabhoj,
Purush, Lok-Katha, Apharan Bhaichareka, Holi, Vama
has been to project socially relevant ideas and
contemporary situations in a real and truthful manner.
We have been able to in our own small way, to reach
the common people although we feel that, with some
of the financial constraints removed we will be capable
of doing a better social service.

