. u.‘

दृ

j

i: नारंग tetra
कृट्यक्वाध्याड्डीष्टद्र "माँ
.

ll
RANIMNDAN
।
के

A CHRONICLE P LAY
SY N O P S lS

S E PT E M B E R I 1 8 43
I n trod u c t i on
'Chorus' explains the circumstances in which Dilip Singh, the minor son
of Maharaja RanjitSingh, from her last wife Rani Jindan, accedes to
the throne of Punjab.
SCENE 1.

Lahore Fort : Rani Jindan’s Chamber

Rani Jindan holds the Court with two of her loyal ministers-Diwan Dina

Nalh and Hakim Nuruddin, who advise her to exercise caution in dealing
with Sir Henry Lawrence, the British Resident in Lahore. Rani Jindan
stung by curtailment of her political and financial powers, dismisses them
unceremoniously and calls for her trusted spy, Baba, a disguised old mandisciple of famous revolutionary Sant Maharaj Singh. She is advised
by Baba to establish contact secretly with the Khalsa army. Rani refuses
to see reason as she holds the army in contempt because of her brother's
assasination.
SCENE 2.

Lahore Fort : Darbar Hall

Child Dilip Singh refuses to put 'tilak' on the forehead of Raja Tej Singh.
SCENE 3. : Lahore : Official residence of the Resident.
Sir Henry Lawrence, the Resident,

discusses the incidence of the pre-

vi0us day in Darbar with Sir Fredric Curry.

Lawrence knowing that Rani

is still popular amongst the people, pleades for a careful and cautious

policy, while Frederic Curry is in favour of taking some strong action
against Rani. Tej Singh, now the Raja and Prime Minister of Punjab,
calls on the resident and advises him to imprison
Rani Jindan and
liquidate the Khalsa Army.
Disagreement between Lawrence and Curry comes to a peak when Lawren’c'e realizes that Curry’s policy is being blessed from the top. He leaves
the meeting in a huff. Curry decides to banish Jindan from Lohore and
recalls Raja Sher Singh from Multan front where Mool Raj has revolted
against the British authority. He te'ls Sher Singh that this is an internal
problem of Punjab and the British forces will not fight along with Sikhs.

