He also refuses to fix a definite date for the marriage of Sher Singh's
sister to Maharaja Dilip Singh.
SCENE 4.

Countryside in Punjab

A mixed crowd of farmers, Akalis and disbanded Khalsa soldiers.

Enter

Baba, the trusted Lieutenant of Rani Jindan.

He informs the crowd that

Jindan is virtually imprisoned in Shekhupura.

He appeals to the crowd to

join hands with Sant Maharaj Singh and banish the British from Punjab.

SCENE 5. Lahore : House of Dina Nath : Midnight
Dina Nath and Hakim Nuruddin playing Chess to each other, discuss the
political situation in Punjab.
Resident for Hakim Nuruddin.
Shekhupura to Ferozepur.

A soldier enters. Brings ’parwana' from the
Hakim is ordered to escort Jindan from

SCENE 5-B Countryside in Punjab
Rani Jindan. escorted by Hakim Nuruddin
Punjab.
SCENE 6.

and British soliders leaves

Multan Front

Sher Singh addresses his soldiers and decides to change sides.

He tells

the Khalsa force that now they will join Multan rnutineers and fight against British. Second Sikh War starts.
SCENE 7.

Chunar Fort : Jindan’s Chamber

Baba manages to enter the Chamber by persuading the guards that he is
visiting Rani only for a religious purpose. After the departure of guards,
he gives whole account of the defeat of the Khalsas in the Second Sikh
War. Rani, still refusing to give in, expresses desire to go back to
Punjab. She escapes from Chunar Fort with the help of Baba.
SCENE 8.

Lahore : Official residence of the Resident

Sir Frederic Curry, not the Resident of Punjab, discusses the situation
which has arisen as a result of Rani‘s escape from Benaras with Prime
Minister Tej Singh.
SCENE 9.

Bank of River Ganges : Somewhere on the border of Nepal

Rani, fearful of her arrest, decides to escape to Nepal with her maidservant Surtoo.
SCENE 10.

Caicutta : Spacer’s Hotel.

Dilip Singh’s Room

After a lapse of many years, young Dilip Singh, meets her mother. Sikh
soliders returning from the War in China, get to know about the arrival
of Dilip Singh and Rani in Calcutta.

They surround the Hotel demanding

’darshan'. Torn, Ertglish Secretary of Dilip Singh, informs that both the
son and the mother will have to leave India soon.
’Chorus' takes over the stage to explain that THIS IS A STORY OF
MISSED OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED BY HISTORY.

First performance of the play at the Karnani Auditorium N 3w Delhi
on 10th June, 1981.

