I

' iitl’lay on ’84 riots to be staged at ३ Parliamen of 01’ Religions
lai Lama, Oscar Arias San~
chez, Vandana Shiva, Dr Jane
Goodall and many others will
lead the world in pondering
critical issues such as vio
lence and social justice. ’’
According to Harinder
Singh, CEO of the Sikh Research lnstitute, which is presenting the play worldwide,
“‘Kultar’s Mime’ has re—ignit—
ed the conversation about

Sarika.sharma
@timesg ro up.com
Chandigarh:
‘Kultar’s
Mime’, a play based on the anti-Sikh riots of 1984, will be
staged at the 2015 Parliament
of the WOrld’s Religions,
known as the world’s largest
interfaith event, in mid-October. Theplay, which has had 36
performances in , four countries in the last one year, in' cluding those in Amritsar
and Chandigarh, synthesizes
the sufferings of victims of

the organized anti-Sikh violenceof 1984. v

1984 both‘within and outside

Play has been dine cted by Boston-based fath er-daughte r duo

were victims of violence —
Directed by Boston-based
draws on twopoems, ‘Kultar’s
father-daughter duo of SarbMime’, written by Sarbpreet
preet Singh and J Mehr Kaur,
Singh on 1984, and ‘In The
the play juxtaposes the 1984
killings against an anti-Jew- ८ City of Slaughter’, written by
Hebrew poet Haim Nahman
ishpogrom in the city of Kishinev, the capital of the Rus- Bialik on the Kishinev p0;
grom.
sian province of Bessarabia,
Earlier this year, the play
in 1903.— Both separated by
came to India and was perthousands of miles, numer-

ous years and insurmount—

formed in major Indian cities

such as Mumbai, Kolkata,
able ditferences of religion,
Chennai and Bangalore, garlanguage and culture, yetsim'
nering
an emotional response
ilar stories of human suffer—
from overwhelmingly noningand courage.
Sikh audiences. It was also
Theplay —which tells the
staged in Delhi on the 30vyear
tale of four Sikh children who

anniversary of the massacre.
“For a year; ‘Kultar’s
Mime’ has been traveling the
world and in the process of
reigniting the conversation
about the 1984 Delhi massacre, encouraging a reﬂection upon both the tragedy of

sectarian ' violence and the
powerful antidote that cornpassion for‘the other’ can be, ’’
Sarbpreet says while talking
to 'I‘OI. He says it is very delighting and important to present the play at the Parliament of the World’s Religions
“where giants such as the Da-

the Sikh community. The outpouring of compassion has
been overwhelming and it is
apparent that stories like
these touch us all in profound
ways and provoke us to reﬂect
on the tragedyof sectarian violence that continues to
plague the world. ”
Besides the Parliament of
the World’s Religions, ‘Kul—
tar’s Mime’ will be performed
in other locations throughout
North America and Europe
during October.
The 2015 Parliament of

World’s Religionswill be held
at the Salt Palace Convention
Center in Salt Lake C ity. Utah,
from October 15-19. Kultar’s
Mime will be staged on October 16 and 17.

