VIBHA RANI’S
a
PLAY NAME: MAIN KRISHNA KRISHN KI

DATED: 24TH OF S-EP 2011

DIRECTED BY: BOMBAY KANNAN

Group NAME: AVITOKO (CHENNAI) 4

.

ABOUT THE PLAY:
Deeply in love with Krishn, Draupadi puts forth her wish to marry him. Krishn cannot
marry her. He explains that they have been sent on earth bound by duties of the Dharma.
According to what has been decided for her, she will get married to Arjun, third of the
Pandav brothers. Falling prey to the ways of destiny, she is married to all the Pandava

brothers and subjected to misgivings thereafter. She holds her friendship with Krishn in
high esteem and often turns to him to seek advice and help. Draupadi is now old has set
foot on her last journey along with her husbands. Her husbands, the ﬁve mighty Pandavas
refuses to take her along paying no heed to her plea telling her that she is destined to be
alone and her misfortune are her own doing.'I‘he monologue is Draupadi’s voice as Krishna,
who has repeadedly questioned decisions made for her in which she has no says. She also
represents the women today who are often face to face with similar situations Her quest for
freedom, individuality compels her to negate standards and protocols set for women by the

society and make way for her own path. Draupadi15 also known as Krishna owing to her

dark skin colour like Lord Krishn.
C
st:
On Stage: Vibha Rani

RAMANIKA GUP'I‘A’ S
PLAY NAME: EK NAYI MENKA
DIRECTED BY: BOMBAY KANNAN

DATED: 25TH OF SEP- 2011
Group NAME: AVITOKO (CHENNAI)

ABOUT THE PLAY:
Menka, the courtesan of Devraj Indra was sent to destroy the 'I‘APA ofSaint V ishvam itr.
Menka, ﬁrst thinks to go to earth. Before going there, she plans to have a glance of earth.
And she got aghast! She ﬁnds that the earth is packed with so called Menkas at hotels, bars

cinemas, TVs and Mehﬁls etc. At the same time, she ﬁnds the agony against women, who
are exploited, tortured, tormented by the society’ 8 so called norms. Another side, women
groups and organizations are creating awareness among women to fight back from their
sufferings. Menka goes on earth, meets Vishwamitr and have a tough arguments with him.

She finds that how ruling class are using them to satisfy not their need, but their greed. She
refuses to destroy the tapa o'fVishwamitr. She also refuses to go back Indralok. She joins
hands with people, who are struggling hard for their existence and for their survival. She

goes to women who are keen'to be identiﬁed as a person rather than categorized in roles,
such as mother, sisters, daughters, wives etc This new Menka, today is representing the
voice of a person more rather than a voice of woman who wants to shape up his/her life
andwants to get rid off from their Sufferings and ridiculous societical norms.

gast:
On Stage: Vibha Rani

