ABOUT TH E GROUP
Bela Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution
in promoting and enriching theatre for over 1 2years. lts productions have been
acclaimed not only in Delhi but also in almost all major cities and even remote areas
of the country.

Probably ours is the only group which has experimented with original plays
in three languages Urdu, Hindi and Bhojpuri. The themes of our plays deals with
human problems, the sorrows and joys and frustrations of human beings form a large

canvas of our group.

Our productions, to name a few. include Chekhov ’ s “The Brute” “Surgery”
“The Defenseless” “The Seduction” Tennessee William’s “The Glass Menagerie”.
Shakespeare’ s “Julius Caesor” Mohan Rakesh’s “Ashad Ka Ek Din” Dario Fo’s
“Accidental Death of an Anarchist” Samuel Beckett’ 3 “Waiting for Godot” Mehdi
Hasan ३ s “Dilfarosh” Jean Paul’s “Maut ke Saaye Mein” Swadesh Deepak’s “Court
Martial” Premchand’s “Kafan” “Bade Bhai Sahab” Mohd Hasan’s "Tamasha aur
Tamashai” and many more. Some include plays like Bhikari Thakur’s “Ganga
Asnan“ and “Bhai Virodh”.
Bela Theatre is always open for a new idea and innovative theatre but the group faces
many serious problems. Delhi has still not achieved adulthood in Theatre. Very few
people are frequent theatre goers. Unless and until strenuous efforts are made there is

little hope of improvement.
About Terrace Theatre Festival

We have recently explored an innovative concept of “Terrace Theatre”. In this

context we have started to organize theatre festivals on our very own rehearsal place.
Here we invite different theatre groups to come and perform. The idea is to showcase
our talent in limited resources. This unique idea was clicked in the mind of Mr.
Waseem Azad suddenly as it’s not always possible to pay the hefty amount for the
auditoriums. We have successfully organized two theatre festivals which have been
appreciated on the national level.

are
Some of the groups which have performed in “Terrace Theatre Festival“

Mask”,

Society”, and now in
“Chhaon Theatre Group”. “Behroop Theatre Group”, “11’ Arts

other states also.
this third “Terrace Theatre Festival” teams are participating from

न मृ'स्म प्रतिष्ठ

च्चाब्लैदृचंक्लठ ।
हैं

...J

