'रूमृ-दृ'हिंड्डेष्ठछटारा Azad is not just a name for us it’s a university, a library where we come and
है a ll the things not just about theatre but about life. He was a man who told us

" ३ t and on the stage and face the audience- the stage of life and the audience of
er बैठ ८ . मृ
. -. tin: war?
.; Cissy , . . .' _ .eted his t.
' t३_ '

laid है

.

" -

ii '. it No... :fner, 1५"क्या in the co“-gested strc'
,tféiif‘ in fran- zlkll‘ Huauii: Colic; if ' row

f’ of ६2.15 .

ilegge founr- ८-- ८ प्रा of Out‘ group "Bela l inane”

Waseem Bhai. He never allowed anyone to use “sir” for him, he was our VCI;

own Waseem Bhai.
He had performed in over eighty playwrights including Shakespeare, Samuel Beckett,
Dario F0, Ibsen, Chekhov, Girish Karnad, Premchand and many more. He used to
conduct production oriented theatre workshops in various schools and institutions. He
has performed in all over India and worked with eminent theatre personalities like —
Arvind Gaur, M.K.Raina, Habib Tanveer, M.S.Sathue, Deepak Ochhani, 'Seema Azmi
etc.

As a director his theatre technique revolved around the “Actor”. He never liked using
any kind of devices or ﬁllers in his plays, he always insisted on using his actor in all

the things related to a play. Be it the preparation of a set, or make up, or costume, or

anything he always involved his actors in that so that they could grow in all the ﬁelds
related to acting and theatre.
These things always helped his actors in getting into the skin of a character. These
techniques always helped us in reading the subtext of a play.
Just like the way he focused on the development of a character in a play, Waseem

Bhai always checked the moral and social development of his students. He was our

biggest critique in acting and in life also. He always taught us our moral duties
towards our parents, relations, our work and everything in life. He never liked taking
help of others but always believed in teamwork. He was a man of passion. He had a
ﬁre in him ,which always reﬂected in the energetic way of his work. He always
believed in moving ahead, breaking all the barriers. He was born for theatre and he
lived for theatre. Bela Theatre was his life. He never stopped, nothing could stop him
and he taught the same thing to us. In his own words- “Mein to akela he chala tha
manzil ki janib, log j udte gaye aur karwan badhta gaya. . .
t

Acknowledgement
Mohd. Yasin , Shamim Fatima, Mohd. Nadeem, Mohd. Fahim, Mohd. Nazim,

Mohd. Rizwan, Asma Babu Azad, Uzma Babu Azad,Mohd. lslamuddin,
Madhumita Waseem Azad, Dinesh Ahlawat, Mohd. Kazim, Brij Bhushan Sharma,
Anis Azmi, Shahid Anwar

