Assistant
Costume Designer
Stage Manager
Make up
Assistant
Property-Incharge

-

Ramanayya Raja
A.V.B.S. Anand
B. Sanyasi Rao
K. Chiranjeevi
Bharani
Brahmanandam & Dany

Lyrics

- Anupoju Laxmana Rao, L. Satyanan, A. S .N. S astry,

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Gangireddata, the B ull-feat, is a time-old folk form of Andhra Pradesh. It
is usually performed in the streets by the skilled and devoted artists who sing the

by—gone glories of folk and mythological heroes. They firstpraise their audience
before they start making the highly decorated bull dance to the rhythms & tunes
of their simple musical instruments.
To adopt this form to the modern stage, a few changes have been made
without affecting its original structure. In matters of costume, dialect, accent and
tunes, it is distinctly original. The Bull has been improvised by using two artists
wearing a mask and a befitting costume. '
In the play emphasis is laid on the mute state of the human beings at the sight
of the miseries of their fellow-beings. Man is worse than an animal if he were
to waste his time by merely ruminating over the glory of his heritage. To lay
stress on this point, the depravity of human nature, the Bull has been purposefully introduced which serves as the key functional element in the play.

ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
A versatile actor, director and a writer. As a director, he has directed more

than 60 plays that includes many major plays which have met with outstanding
success. He has also won several ‘best actor’ and ‘best director’ awards. Plays
directed by him have also been represented in the National festivals arranged by
the Sangeet Natak Academy, New Delhi. He has also made his mark in Film and
Television.
-

ABOUT THE TROUPE
Established in 1977, with a small group of eight, has now grown to a
strength of fifty including artists and technicians. ‘
The troupe has many major plays to its credit and it has performed not only
in Andhra but also in many other States of India. One of its productions ‘AEAVI
DIVI'I‘ILU’, has been successfully performed for 51 days continuously which
is unique in the history of Amateur theatre of Andhra Pradesh.
‘ BOMMALAATA’ , another production has been presented in the National
Festival, New Delhi, in the year, 1989. The troupe is based at Vishakapatna.

