tion.
On

A number of dance-dramas

based on the Folk technique or

the classical Kathak style have been staged.

Ramlila is, perhaps

one of the most speCtacular productions of the folk variety. Rooted
in the race and the soil it is alive with folk accents. and yet it has been so
artistically designed as to satisfy even the most discerning critics. In fact
it is for the ﬁrst time that this ancient epic has been presented in this
unique form. The Ramlila troupe consists of about ﬁfty well trained artistes
and the length of the stage is about one hundred feet. It, is a dance drama
of magnificent amplitude. powerfully attractive in its musical appeal and full
of oriental pomp and splendour.
Widely different in character are the two dance-dramas—Malati
Madhav and Kumar S'ambhav—both based on the Kathak dance technique.
It may be relevant to point out that owing to lack of patronage and other
circumstances the Kathak style had almost completely gone out of vogue.
A stigma came to be attached to it. There is no doubt that this noble
danceform would have become totally exinct had not the Kendra made

serious efforts to revive it and restore it to its former grace and dignity. In
fact the Kendra was the ﬁrst to realize the immense potentialities of this
technique and to adapt it to the larger, broader and more logically integrate
ed dance-drama form as exempliﬁed by “Malti Madhav” and “Kumar
Sambhav". The way then: two ancient Sanskrit plays have been moulded

into the Kathak style has evoked universal admiration.

Of particular

interest is the music which has a purely classical colouring both in its vocal
and orchestral aspects. At the same time it has been so ingeniously

des'gned as to reﬂect the shifting moods and situations of the play. Thus
musical classicisrn has been liberated from its esoteric conﬁnes and given a

much larger scope tor expression.
Special attention has been given to the general style of presentation.

The costumes, gorgeous and resplendent. have been derived from ancient
sculptures and paintings, while the choreography has been done by the most
accomplished artistes. To this is added the superb charm of dancing with
its skilled foot-work and its beauty of mime and gesture language. In fact,
the Kathak dance-patterns as evolved by the Kendra’s choreographers are
so strikingly nmel and attractive and so full of unprediCtable originalities
that even those who once were conﬁrmed opponents of the Kathak technique
are now its enthusiastic admirers.
The Kendra is also interested in puppetry.

It has already produced

