THE

S TOR Y

Bhurivasu and Devarata, two young friends and fellow students at

the university take a vow that they would endeavour to pass on their friend-

ship to the next generation by bringing about a marriage between their
children. This promise is made in the presence of another fellow-student,
Kamandaki, and her pupil, Saudamini. The friends part. Bhurivasu
becomes Minister of the King of Padmavati, and has a daughter named

Malati. Devarata has a similar position at Kundinapura and has a son
named Madhav. The children grow up and Devarata sends his son to
Kamandaki, who had now become a Buddist nun, and was staying in a
monastery (Vihara) at Padmavati, much honoured, both by the king and his
minister.

Bhurivasu comes to know of Madhav’s presence in the city, and is
not averse to giving his Malati in marriage to him ; only it so happens that
the king, his master, had already asked Bhurivasu १ to give his daughter,
Malati, in marriage to an old court-favourite of his called Nandan.

It was

dangerous not to honour the King’s wish, so Kamandaki advises Bhurivasu
to assent, but to word his assent in such a way as to leave himself a chance
of evasion in case of need, herself undertaking to contrive to bring the
young people together and arrange for a private marriage, after which the

king would have no choice.

With the help of friends, Kamandaki manages

to bring the young people together in chance encounters on the road or at
the spring festival of the God of love. By various means she creates deep

interest in Malati for Madhav.
Malati to take a bold step.

By narrating ancient stories she prepares

When Kamandaki is busy working to bring about the union of Malati
and Madhav, a number of episodes take place. . At Padmavati,

in the

cremation ground close by the river, there was a temple of the goddess
Karala.
animal

charms.

This Goddess was very fond of blood, and her votaries offered her
sacriﬁces (sometimes even human sacriﬁces) to abtain various

It so happens that on the very night Malati and Madhav met

in the garden, a certain Kapalika—Aghor Ghanta by name, has arranged

