THE ESSENCE OF THEATRE
Dr. Prakash K. Nandi
Hony. Chief Advisor

.
T heatre is a group experience almost for everyone

Theatre is universal like music and dance, transcending all

under varying social situation with different purposes and

linguistic and cultural barriers and building bridges of human

objectives. This group experience transmits communication

understanding between people of different lands. /

both ways while considering audience involvement and the

“India—Theatre Olympiad" is a modest beginning by
people working from the front stage or backdrop.
theatre enthusiasts in this country to bring together people

Theatre is not life, but it reflects life in numerous artistic
forms. Theatre is also not an object, but is a subject. It is not

from different nations at one place and forge new links in the
ambience of harmony.

static, it always moves to provide aesthetic pleasures and
The enthusiasm with which the Theatre groups from
handsome sublimity among the audience. On the contrary,
abroad have responded to our request, has overwhelmed

the theatre today does not require a decorator in creating a
total theatre. But a creative person known as ‘Director’ is to
be behind the curtain _ with adequate knowledge and
personality until his product is well tuned. A Director has
hard task with multiple afflex for making his. creation

Ludhiana, Patiala and New Delhi, would clear up the

misconceptions about these areas that prevail abroad.
We are sure that this Olympiad will be a memorable event
both for us here in India, and the participants from abroad.

effective.
Production of a play is not a matter of fragmentary
approach, neither it depicts any gimmic or stunt into its
organic whole. Because theatre follows science, alike
acceptance of science in every day life of the contemporary
world. Similarly, it is indomitable to assess any creation

through scientific process. Even culture today like painting,
writing, music,

us. And at the same time, their performances in Chandigarh,

acting,

graphics are not beyond any

methodology aside talent is affirmed of an individual creator.
For a near ingenuous ‘play production’ a Director has to

follow the systematic method and use his associates with
proper means and ways.
Obviously, lndian theatre today is developed without any
proper theatre education beside her olden and golden
cultural heritage, even less in number are available works,
written by lndian authors on technical aspects related to the

need of contemporary Indian Theatre World. A few works
have been published following the Occidental authors that
conveyed enigmatic and iconic messages which are full of
confusion amongst the people engaged for theatre in a
different orbit from developed countries.

Above all, theatre in India has a rich and glorious past.
India is a land of having long cherished tradition of more than
2,000 years. But it has not somehow been justified for want
of living experience.
I Theatre reflects the truth. It is like a fire and has the
potential to destroy the 'social structure, as also to build a
new one depdnding upong the production and balanm With
which this media is handled.

