F o L K - T H E A T R E A N D I TS
IMPACT ON MODERN THRATRE
MOVEMENT
Dr. Ajit Kumar Ghosh

THE word ‘folk’ now denotes a group of people rooted to
a particular rural zone with some distinctive traditions,
habits, beliefs and rituals and is quite distinguished from the
urban. But before the urbanisation of the society, ‘folk’

Classical music with a variety of well-regulated tunes,

elaborate and complicated shades was practised. Classical
dance with measured movements of limbs and meaningful
expressions also gained popularity. With the advent of

meant all people in general. In the primitive society the

modern rnechanised civilisation, literature and performing

individuals, men and women, came close to one another and

arts became more mechanical, sophisticated and artiﬁcial.
The source of real, throbbing and pulsating life dried up
leaving behind only the form, style and mannerism. But
amidst this urban arts and culture the folk tradition
flourished in the villages, though both these cultures
exercised inﬂuence over one another while maintaining their
distinct identity.

formed the unit of a family. The families of a particular region
united to form a tribe or a community. The tribes were
originally nomadic moving from one place to another. But
gradually, they settled down, built their houses and tilled
their lands. The trees, meadows, rivers, the birds and beasts

appealed to their imagination and their sense of beauty and
wonder. They expressed their feelings in primitive aesthetic
activities. Of course their artistic creativity had roots in their
popular beliefs, customs and rituals. The main characteristic

of the primitive artistic creation was that it reﬂected the
thoughts, feelings and acts of the community rather than of

In all countries, primitive dramatic performance
developed from dance accompanied with music. People
danced while performing social rituals and religious
ceremonies. During religious festivals deities were carried
from one place to another in a procession, with people

any individual.

With the growth of town and cities, the people's culture
was divided into two distinct patterns, the folk culture

rooted to the soil and the urban culture which was
sophisticated, embellished and a bit artificial. Art, music,
dance and theatre in towns and cities were patronized by the
royality and society’s high—ups besides the rich merchants

and traders who contributed to providing facilities and
opportunities to popular entertainment of elaborate and
sophisticated nature.

performing dance and comic skits and playing music. The
procession with the statue of Dionysus during the Dionysus
festival in ancient Greece and the religious procession with
the idols of Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra on the
chariots are clear examples. Drama was born of songs and
dances and the comic skits of such religious processions,
that portrayed tragedy and comedy as in ancient Greece
and by the Jatra in Bengal. In the initial stages the folkdrarna
was primarily musical performed with dances and a few

disjointed dialogues and crude comic interludes. But the plot

The large cities, the famous capitals of many kingdoms

was always loose with pointless and disjointed incidents. The

grew into not only as centres of political power and military

fOIk'Play was always peforrned in open air, the acting area
was surrounded on all sides by the audience. The actors and
the audience remained at the same ground-level since there

strength but also as centres of art and culture. The famous
monarchs of Ayodhya, Mathura, lndraprastha, Pataliputr
a,
Ujjayini, Agra, Delhi, Gaur, Navadwip, Murshid
abad etc.

was "0 raised platform, nor any background and side-covers

were the patrons of music, dance and theatre. Poets

With Painted scenes or side wings to help to create any

musicians,

lHUSlon- EVefythinQ was open, everything was known to the
audience. The musicians sat allaround the acting area. The
director was there to issue neccessary instruction. Even the

dancers and playwrights and actors were
devoted to their arts to please the king,
his courtiers,

intellectuals and the art-loving merchants and busines
smen.
They had to chisel and develop their arts to
pr'efection by
innovating nicetis, and subtleties. Literatu
re became more

Prompter sat in view of the audience and prompted rather

and more rhetorical. embellished and suggestive.

two scenes. No illusionary methods were adopted in
stage'

loule टा1हाँ the propertymen changed properties in between

