scenes, entrance and exit through wings and lighting
devices. There was no proscenium, no curtain. Indeed there

The open-air theatre production or the folk-theatre on the
one hand, and the stage production within a play-house on

was no barrier between the players and the audience. Both

the other are the two methods of prodution which have been

sides were totally involved with one another. The players

in vogue since the earliest time. In ancient Greece the open
air method was adopted and in ancient India the highly
intricate system of production within a play-house was
wi‘nessed by the spectators. Since the earliest times folk-

had to depend on their voices, physical flexibility and power

of expression. Their voices and expressions had to reach a
vast congregation of people, and hence they had to be loud,

sonorous and clear. Their movements had to be quick and
repetitive and the expressions were required to be well
drawn to the extent of being excessive. Something of a
melodramatic action was necessary for a large audience. In

some fo|k~plays masks were used on which excessive facial
expressions were drawn. The Greek actors and the Chhau
dancers of Bengal wore masks so that their facial
expressions could be seen from a long distance. As there
was no intervention of scenes the action of the folk-play was
continuous, and only for the sake of relief some comic

interluded were interpolated. No written script was used
originally. The songs and dialogues were committed to
memory, and thus there used to be constant change in the
script, with frequent improvisations. But such plays inspite
of all imperfections and crudeness belonged to the soil and
the people.

theatre and urbanised elitist theatre have existed side by
side.

Stage~based

theatre

has

shown

unbelieveable

improvements for maximum joy and excitement, still it does

not seem to be the last word in production. Modern mind
does not want freedom of expression only, it wants freedom
of themeans of expression also. Stage-based theatre inside a
play-house suffers from some inevitable restrictions,
imposed on them. First, the proscenium is an
insurmountable barrier between the actors and the
audience. The actors appear and disappear in the
background, and when the curtain drops there is the total

separation between the two. The members of the audience
think and feel and identify themselves with the actors to a
certain extent only but they cannot identify themselves with
them. The proscenium separates them from what is going on

The folk—theatre was for the poor and common people.
The cost of production of folk-plays was very small. But as

the stage.Secondly the proscenium stage is necessarily very

theatre came to urban areas, the play-production became

where a large number of people participate in quick

restricted to specially constructed play-houses for the
chosen few, intellectuals and affluent people who could.
easily bear the cost of high production of drama. When
drama was performed in a closed hall the artificial light had to
be used and stage illusions could be created by applying

movements and actions over large areas. With the spread of

illusionary methods. A stage was constructed with curtains

much limited in size and is unfit for massive productions

democratic and socialist movements, crowds, peasants and

workers representatives of the people en rnasse are being
characterised in modern dramas. The group characters are
getting more prominence than individual characters. The
playwrights committed to their cause want to reach them

and scenes to provide cover and beautiful set-up to the
stage. The raised acting area was well-demarcated, with

directly and communicate to them straight. This is possible

unseen green rooms behind the stage.The front of the stage

provided seating space for the spectators. Due to the

stage bounded by walls is quite insufficient for such play
production. Thirdly, the capacity of a theatre-hall is very

proximity to the spectators, the actors showed minutest

much limited. So not everyone who is interested in stage

action of the‘limbs and the smallest details of expression
which have all been elaborately discussed in the

plays get their chance if the shows are repeated. Fourthly,

‘Natyasastra’ of Bharata. The folk»plays were loosely-knit

dominates our life and art so ruthlessly. They want to see life

musical shows but the stage plays were well-constructed
and more dialogue-based. To please the learned and
sophisticated spectators the words and images were

as it is and not the mechanised version of life. Hence there is

embellished and highly rhetorical dialogues were used.

rural surroundings. Regional cultural trends and patterns

With the advancement of civilisation, engineering and
technological

skills

are

extensively

applied

in

the

only in an open and spacious area. The limited space in a

many people are getting fed up with rnechanisation that

a marked tendency to go to the root of real life which can be
found in the midst of nature and among the unsophisticated

are naturally more wanted in the content and form of play.
The elitist plays and mechanised stage-production do not
satisfy that demand of the people.

construction of play-houses and in adopting advanced
methods of stage -tec hniques . The modern stage production

The inadequacy and handicap of the stage prodcution

highly

within the four walls of a play-house have been discussed

is a

complicated mechanised

developed audio-visual system.

process

with a

above. The playwrights and producers are naturally thinking

