THEATRE TODAY IN JAPAN
Ch iyom i Hara
President
Nippon Amateur Drama Association

TODAY, theatre in Japan consists of four different genres,
coexisting but independent of each other. The four genres
are “Noh and Kyogen (Noh-farce)", "Kabuki". “Shinpa (New
School of Drama)" and modem theatre which has been
called “Shingeki (New Drama)".

l‘loh and Kyogen and Kabuki have their root in a feudal
and exclusive cultural tradition of old Japan. One
represents aristocratic and chivalrous (samurai's) taste, and

the omer represents that of common people. Their style is
already completed as it is, so there is no room for

development or reform in them. But the two genres still
attract quite a few audiences.
"Shinpa", based upon commercial theatres, tried to put the

modern life on the stage, and developed ”the middletheatre" which goes into the middle way between “Shinpa” ’
and “Shingeki” Their fundamental training and acting
style, however, owed much to Kabuki. They call their
theatre "modern theatre" themselves but it has not
reached even the level of Boulevard Theatre in Western
Europe.

“Shingeki” started as a reforming movement of theatre
against Kabuki and “Shinpa”. It can be compared to the
modern theatre movement in the late nineteenth century
Europe. It started its activities in the background of a
thought movement and new idea of literature which was
gaining ground after the Russo—Japanese war. They
performed a lot of Western plays in translation, such as
hose bytShakespeare, Ibsen, Strindberg, Shaw, and
.hekhov. But many of the performances were not worthy
lhe name; they just seemed to be studying foreign plays.

इ t, needed much time and effort to create the attracting
>ower of their own.
'3rst, they had to undergo two eras of playwrights. One is
है the 1920s, during which Kan Kikuchi, Yuzo Yamarnoto,
Kuriio Kishida and Mantaro Kubota appeared, and the

‘ther the decade starting in 1932, which was productive of
I nany young playwrights.

3 lien. in the late ‘20s a group of theatre snobs called
proletarian theatre or left-wing theatre claimed their own
ground but they became completely hushed after the

second world war. Since then “Shingeki” has been striving
for establishing the real "modern theatre", learning much
from the Western European theatre.

Thus, as I mentioned before, there is no one main stream
of drama in today's Japan. There are two incompatible
streams coexisting independently: one based upon the old
Japanese tradition, and the other based upon the Western
modern theatre.

it is quite regrettable that "Shingeki" is now on the decline
after the five decades since the war. Rampant productions
of TV dramas changed stage actors and actresses to just
poor untalented TV idols and put the very existence of
theatre companies at stake. in the ‘705 there started "little
theatre movement", but they divided themselves into small
groups, each claiming its own supremacy.
Today, Japan is becoming one of the busiest markets of
commercial theatre in the world. Last year (1988) more
than ten world-famous companies gave their performances
on their tour in Japan. It reﬂects the present economical
expansion of the country, but, paradoxically, those pro
ductions only help to turn ordinary theatregoers away from
the theatre. They raised the price of theatre tickets
incredibly high: it is now almost beyond their reach. 80, in
appearance, theatre in Japan seems to enjoy its prosperity,
but in reality, it is in nothing but chaos.

We should ask ourselves : Whom on earth is theatre for?
The answer is of course: it is for the masses.

We, who are concerned with amateur theatre in Japan,
have a great Wish to save the Japanese theatre from this
chaotic condition by trying to establish real community
theatre rooted in the community people.

