THEATRE IN FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF GERMANY
‘

Cultural vitality in the Federal Republic of Germany can
be experienced particularly well, perhaps even best of all,
in the country’s theatre. Its structure and diversity are
exemplary, and the generous financial support it receives
is unparalleled elsewhere in the world. At present the
forces urging development and change may be powerful
but German theatrical tradition has also remained strong.
Two historical- turning points exert a great inﬂuence on the
present -day. Both occurred in the twentieth century,
and both have ultimately done more for continuity than
for radical reorientation. The tradition of the feudally
inﬂuenced court theatre, of the many urban theatres,
extends far back into the eighteenth century. Its end
seemed to have come, however, when the First World
War put an end to the Kaiser’s Reich and its principalities.
The public authorities got involved with the threatre
though. Cities and states, represented by their
parliaments, took on the provision of support as if that
were a matter of course. During that time there
developed in the Weimar Republic what is today the
broadly-based German theatre system, which on the one
hand is subsidised by the Laender and local authorities,
and on the other guarantees a great deal of independence
and individual responsibility to intendants. Despite their
great ﬁnancial dependence, theatres can always appeal
to artistic freedom as anchored in the Federal German
constitution.
The destruction resulting from the Second World War
brought about the second important turning-point. Over
seventy theatre buildings were affected in the area
comprising the Federal Republic of Germany and West
Berlin. Over a hundred theatres have been newly built or
restored since that time.
This was accompanied by revival of a tradition that had
declined two hundred years previously with the
domestication of the dramatic arts. In the 17th and 18th
centuries it was mainly travelling players who brought
threatre to the people. They performed on rapidly erected
stages, in market squares, or festive meadows. They

often had to improvise, and avoided subjecting
themselves to a restricted space or strictly established
texts.

such travelling players are brought back to mind by
today’s endeavours to regain for the threatre some of the
mobility it has lost, and to free it from being tied to
written drama. These include experiments made by many
companies in taking ﬂexible and usually smaller-scale

productions out of the threatre and into satellite towns,
youth centres and homes for old people, and into pubs or

prisons where they perform in front of a pi blic that would
normally not go to a play. That was accc. ipanied in the
late 19605 by the rise of Free Theatre Groups, theatre
collectives and travelling troupes of a markedly
contemporary character.

The touring companies (the most famous in the Federal
Republic, “Der grune Wagen”, in fact comes from
Switzerland and the rural theatres (Landesbuhnen), which
receive high subsidies for giving guest performances in
the provinces, provide drama on a commercial basis
across the country-travelling enterprises moving around
the buses, and earning quite well in the process.
Theatres in the Federal Republic at present attract an
attendance of around 27 million per year, leaving out of
account the many amateur companies and ﬂourishing
festivals. Of this total four million are accounted for by
touring companies and the many private ensembles, big
and small devoted to the experimental and to
unproblematic light entertainment, and existing without
any or only a small subsidy.
_, U,

