क्रांटादृख्याठावैन्नठापैगंधारु or श्नरुब्लूहूष्ठात्युस्लिब्र mar}
National Institute of Performing Arts, popularly known as
NIPA, is an all India level autonomous body with its
Secretariat and registered office at Ahmedabad, Gujrat
(India). It is a corporate body of UNESCO and associated
with World Friendship Association, Japan. An educational
and cultural organisation without any political, social and
religious conﬁnements, NIPA primarily aims to propagate,
develop and protect various branches of performing arts
' in India and abroad. It is also the National Centre of
IATA, Denmark. Working with the commitment to

achieve its objectives through its network of various
Chapters all over India i.e. Ahmedabad, Bombay,
Calcutta, Pune, Nagpur and Chandigarh; soon NIPA
proposes to have its office at New Delhi, the Capital city
of India.

e) To undertake higher research on Indian Performing
Arts for bringing the same into international focus for
people of other countries.
f)

To arrange international cultural exchange
programmes to help overseas students and
researchers on Indian art.

9) To enrich new human experiences by exchanging
different thoughts and ideas among people
throughout the globe through the medium of
Performing Arts.
i) To impart training in different branches of
cultural science and audio-visual methodology
ii) To recognise young talent properly in the ﬁeld of
Live Art.

The Institute as its one of the objectives to evaluate the
process and to give impetus to the young generation

through its talent search programme in the field of
performing arts. To fulfil the various demands of today’s
society for propagating, developing and protecting various
branches of performing arts Herculian efforts will have to
be made by the versatile educationists and experts in the
ﬁeld to bridge the generation gap with advanced

iii) To evaluate the process to give impetus to the
young generation through its talent search
programmes in the ﬁeld of Performing Arts.
iv) To fulﬁl the various demands of today’s society
for propagating, developing and protecting
various branches of Performing Arts.

techniques imparted to people of the contemporary era.

The institute will formulate a curriculum for implementing
non-formal education and high research on various
subjects of arts and aesthetics, highlighting, the human
approach to be followed on the basis of a decisive and
comprehensive academic evaluation, theory and practice
not by following the educational systems commonly
existing in various institutions in India in various ﬁelds of
performing arts.

Brief description of NIPA’s activities since inception
1985

March

Formal inauguration of NIPA with its Head
Quarter at Ahmedabad by the Hon’ble
Minister of Industry and Minister of
Agriculture, Government of Gujrat.
Organised national level Theatre Workshop
for the Actors and Directors under tha
auspices of IFFCO, Kalol Unit (near
Ahmedabad) where more than 50
participants drawn from different parts of
the country took part. The workshop was

OBJECTIVES : —

a) To organise theatre olyrnpiad every alternate year.
b) To hold national and international seminars on
various media of performing Arts.

followed by live performance by the
c) To organise national festivals of various kinds of
Performing Arts viz. - classical,contemporary,
folk,
traditional and indigenous.

participants.

Seven day Folk Cultural Festival sponsored

v

by Song & Drama Division, (West Zone)d To collect material on Indian cultural heritage
especially on performing arts and artist
es to preserve

May

the preservation of both Oriental and Occide
ntal
performing material will be done to facilita
te
comparative study by future researchers.

Simultaneous opening of Bombay, Pu“ and
Calcutta Chapters of NIPA.

them in the theatre, museum or archie
ve Paraller
July

Sent performing troups to different places

of Japan.

