ICELAND

Comedy of Errors —

Group Leader : Alda Sigurdardottir

The Amateur Theatre Of Hafnarﬁordur
The Amateur Theatre of Hafnarfjordur was founded in
1936 in an era when professional theatres barely existed
in Iceland. The company became very popular especially
in the war and the years preceding it. During the period
the company staged a very broad variety of plays ranging
from slapstick comedy to classical drama. Later on during
the sixtees when competition from professional theates
and cinemas became more intense the company focus
shifted more to slapstick comedy to attract audience. But
in the late seventies when television was introduced in
Iceland and the attention of the audience shifted to the
new medium the company’s productions were less
popular and the ﬁnancial situation was in such a bad state
that in 1970 the company ceased all activity.

It was not until 1982 that the company became active
again. The membership consisted mainly of young people
who were eager to perform a variety of productions and
to establish an amateur theatre group that could appeal to
various kinds of audiences without losing its integrity and
artistic aim.

Over the six years that have passed the amateur
Theatre
Group of Hafnarf jordur has staged over 15 plays
and
productions and quite often with considerable
financial
and critical successes. During that time of
group has had
its own theatre which is owned by the local
government
and has this in fact being crucial to their continuing
existence. In 1985 the group was invited
to perform at
The International Amateur Theatre Festiv
al in Monaco
and

in August the same year the group staged
in Icelandic
music comedy there.

Director : Havar Sigurjonsson
Duration : 1 hour 15 minutes
Synopsis of the Play

The Comedy of Errors is a classical comedy about two
sets of twins separated in infancy. The action starts when
one set of the twins, Antifolus of Syracuse and his servant
Dromio, come to Efesus in search of their missing twin
brothers. Unware that their counterparts live in Efesus
they come upon a ﬂurry of misunderstandings by
everybody’s behaviour We also meet in the play antifolus
of Efesus wife, Adriana, who suspects correctly that her
husband is having an affair and does everything in her
power to win him back but unfortunately picks the wrong
twin brother. Other citizens of Efesus encounter similar
errors but in the end everything is worked out and all
ends well.
~
Performers :

Alda Sigurdardottir
Egill lngibergsson
Erlendur Palsson
Eirikur S. Sigurdarson
Sigridur Karlsdottir
Svafa Arnardottir
Svanhvit Magnusdottir
Halldor Magnusson
David Thor Johnsson
Steinar Almarsson
Larus Vilhjalmsson
Hallgrimur Hrodrnarsson
Bjork Jakobsdottir
Steinunn Knutsdottir
Karl H ill"

