INDIA
SURYA Kl ANTIM KIRAN SE
SURYA Kl PAHLI KIRAN TAK
‘DUSK TO DAWN’

Director : Pahlnd Asgarwnl

SYNOPSIS or THE PLAY
The play ‘Surya Ki Antirn Kiran Se, Surya Ki Pahli Kiran
Tak’ (Dust to Dawn) aims at making an evocative and indepth analysis of man woman relationships, marital as well
as extra marital, with all their complexities, tensions, and
undercurrents. lt attempts to permeate into the muffled

BASTARD, I WILL SLAP YOU !

state of a traditional, feudal society, with a view to overturn

DIRECTOR

all that is obsolete, resulting in the emergence of a new
consciousness.

Dr. Prakash K. Nandi

Dr. Prakash K. Nandi

Surinder Verma’s story revolves around an important
SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY
king, who is unable to procreate a heir for his kingdom.

It is a play of contemporary era which as an organic-whole,
depicts the ideals of Indian magic, mime and non-verbal
theatrical mood. The thematic values laid on Human Values
and World Peace in a satirical manner has an approach in
relation to acting, singing and dancing too.
Penned by Agnidoot, this is a no-plot-play having four

episodes in a chain to provide the basic substance of Indian

Under the ‘Niyog’ tradition, the council of ministers compel
the king to permit the queen to seek a surrogate husband for
one night. The play goes on to build the initial reluctance and
the consequent mental agony of the king. The plot reaches
its climax when the queen, having selected her former lover
as her surrogate husband, discovers the ultimate ecstacy
and fulfilment through physical union with the man.

People’s life, culture and socio-economic status. The focal

point of the play is search of new human identification to

Performers

discover the global people living in harmony.

Anita Sharma
India is a country of Unity in Variety. So the performing

Soniya

artistes have been choosen from the varied linguistic, Socio-

Surinder Sharma

cultural communities with high artistic calibre to establish

Atulvir Arora

the integration on the way in searching Global peace.

Sudhir Baveja
Anup Zutshi

The Troupe :
National Institute of

Madhurirna

Performing Arts (NIPA)

Vijay Kapur

