RAMAKRISHNA MISSION VIVEKANANDA UNIVERSITY
(Declared by Government of India under Section 3 of UGC Act)

PO Belur Math, Dist Howrah. West Bengal 711 202, India

Ref.D.0.No.THAKURIBBILNJI2008

4 December 2008

Sub: Drama on Sri Ramakrishna - his unique life and message ofuniversal love and
religious harmony: script, direction and staging by Sri Bapi Bose
Dear Sri Jhunjhunwalaji

I was very happy when you brought Shri Bapi Bose to Ramakrishna Mission, Delhi,
to share his thoughts with me on the new drama that he is producing on Sri
Ramakrishna's unique life and message. Sri Bapi Bose‘s approach to Sri Ramakrishna
seems somewhat different from what one is accustomed to seeing in the available
pictorial and visual presentations. In a sense therefore this approach is rather unique.
It attempts to present Sri Rarnakrishna's kaleidoscopic personality of variegated hue,
ever-changing yet ever—new, and therefore eternal, in a non-hagiographic manner.
This is rather unusual in the portrayal ofsuch and outstanding spiritual personality for
the sheer radiance of such a God-soaked and God-inebriated spiritual genius (in the
words ofAldous Huxley) tends to overwhelm the other aspects to which a common
man ﬁnds able to easily relate. Hence the relevance of Sri Bapi Bose's new
presentation, that too in the drama art from. Swami Vivekananda called Sri

Ramakrishna as ananta-bhavamay-Thakur, "the Lord of inﬁnite spiritual moods". Sri
Ramakrishna is a powerful dynamo capable of electrifying those he touches with his
spiritual realizations, samadhi, jnana-bhakti (knowledge and devotion) and supreme
power of yoga. Sri Ramakrishna is also an inﬁnite ocean of mercy and compassion
ever engaged in trying to catapult unregenerate minds to the rareﬁed realms of
spiritual wisdom. Swami Vivekananda, who evidently knew his Master Sri
Ramakrishna the best, dared not attempt any portrayal of his Master‘s personality. In

this context, Sri Bapi Bose's attempt needs special encouragement. If Sri Bapi Bose's

new presentation could give the viewers a glimpse of Sri Ramakrishna's inﬁnitude,
'१९८७७दृ

however infmitesimal, then it would be a blessing for humankind;

"'७५८१3

“T“'”""""'

८ i , न… .
८

)4

f

^

सै

i हम] "८३ ३ ५ ३
t ५13, ‘/.r
5_ ..

‘ क्या

८

