Sri Ramakrishna made his appearance and delivered his message at the time and the

place at which he and his message were needed. This message could hardly have been
delivered by anyone who had not been brought up in the Hindu religious tradition. Sri
Ramakrishna was born in Bengal in 1836. He was born into a world that, in his
lifetime, was, for the ﬁrst time, being united on a literally world-wide scale. Today we

are still living in this transitional chapter of the world's history, but it is already
becoming clear that a chapter which had a Western skill has not only 'annihilated
distance‘; it has armed the peoples ofthe world with weapons ofdevastating power at
a time when they have been brought to point-blank range of each other without
supremely dangerous moment in human history, the only way of salvation for

mankind is an Indian way. The Emperor Ashoka's and the Mahatma Gandhi's
principle of non-violence and Sri Rarnakrishna's testimony to the harmony of

religious: here We have the attitude and the spirit that can make it possible for the
human race to grow together into a single family-and, in the Atomic Age, this is the
only alternative to destroying ourselves. In the Atomic Age the whole human race has
a utilitarian motive for following this Indian way. No utilitarian motile could be
stronger or more respectable in itself. The survival of the human race is at stake. Yet
even the strongest and most respectable utilitarian motive is only a secondary reason
for taking Ramakrishna's and Gandhi's and Ashoka's teaching to heart and acting on it.
The primary reason is that this teaching is right — and is right because it ﬂows from a
true vision ofspiritual reality.

Swami Ghanananda

India at the time of Sri Ramakrishna-Religious revival and national awakening in
India : (Excerpts from Sri Ramakrishna and his unique Message: Chapter - III)

Studying the history of nineteenth-century India, one ﬁnds the same strange
phenomenon repeating itself. The beginning ofthe last century was period ofcultural
and national decline, of moral and spiritual degradation. The English had conquered
large portions ofthe vast peninsula and made their inﬂuence felt in the rest ofthe land.
This political subjugation of India was followed by an attempt at cultural conquest.
The effects of an alien culture and civilization which the conquerors had brought with
them into the country were intentionally reinforced by the foreign system of
education which they spared no pains in introducing. India was taken by storm; she
was dazzled by the glamour and glory ofthe west. She began to ape the conquerors not

