only in language, manners and dress, but also in education, culture and religion. Time,

however, proved that the effect was only temporary : there came a great reaction when
the self—forgiveness pronounced by the glamour had passed away. The reaction was
the outcome, not of any vengeful spirit, but of an inmate urge for national and cultural
self—expression. It proved to the hilt that the soul of India was not to be extinguished the seed of life in the form of her sarnskaras and vasanas, the tendencies and

impressions ofscores ofcenturies ofthe collective life ofher past, was still alive. The
seed was simply passing through the dormant state preceding germination only to
sprout and ﬂourish once again into the mighty tree of national life with branches and
foliage, blossoms and fruits that marked its everlasting genius.
Indla was therefore rediscovering herself in the last century. Her self-expression ﬁrst
took the form of a religious efﬂorescence. The other aspects of the renaissance—
political and national, commercial and industrial, artistic, scientiﬁc and literary —

came decades later. This was quite compatible with the genius of the people, for the
keynote of the music of nationalism in India is neither politics nor commerce nor
industry nor that spirit of national aggrandizement which ultimately results in
national suicide, but religion, which expresses through a characteristic culture with a
philosophic outlook and mystic idealism. In the nineteenth century, as in the past,
history was repeating itself. A series of religious movements came into existence,
which quickened the nation once again, so that in a few decades the national life began
to ﬂow free and clear. Of the religious teachers of the last century, Sri Ramakrishna
together with his great spiritual aide, Swami Vivekananda, stands on the highest crest
of the wave of the religious renaissance. They form the most complete and most
comprehensive expression of the true spiritual and cultural idealism of India, and of
the universal and cultural idealism of India, and of the universal and synthetic
principles ofthe Vedanta in all its varied aspects and all its varied depths. The advent
of Sri Ramakrishna is fraught with profound cultural and spiritual signiﬁcance for
India and the world.

Synopsis:
Set in Calcutta in the Nineteenth Century, the play Parampurush depicts the notional
and spiritual anarchy, where the strong rationalism, need for social reforms, seed of
the nationalist movement, upsurge of different sects as Brahmism shifting from the
prevailing idolatry and orthodoxies of the obscurantist Hindu Society, disturbed by
the reckless path breaking by Young Bengal supporters, were struggling to show the
path towards the freedom from social and political shackles.

