in
At this juncture Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsadev (Thakur) came to this world
iment
1836 with the responsibility to show us the way. Sri Ramakrishna is the embod
ofthe harmony of religions, as he practiced and experienced the fundamental truth of
the various religions ofthe world.
This is not a Biography of Sri Ramakrishna but the analytical tale and visual
commentary following the theme, the principal teaching of his philosophy, 'Jato Mat
Tato Path' (As many faiths, so many paths‘ or God can be realized through different
paths). He expressed his special bond with Naren (Swami Vivekananda). The Play
unfolds the process — mainly through the experiences of making Naren to Swami

Vivekananda, the main weapon of his armoury. It features Sarada Devi (Sri Ma), his
soul—companion wife; Keshabchandra Sen, the Brahmo Sarnaj stalwart;
Girishchandra Ghosh, the 'Garrick' of Bengali Theatre; Dr. Mahaendralal Sarkar, his
physician and the rationalist; Binodini Dasi, the 'Prima Dona' of native theatre who
hailed from red light district and many ofhis disciples and in that course, revealing the
liberal humanism, his life was the symbol of.
While there was a new beginning, cancer decided to end the journey of Thakur. It
ended, but his disciples led by Swami Vivekananda took the torch ahead to the
millions.
Stopping before the borderline of propagation, the play objectively looks into the
man, who could transform the mutual hatred to mutual love with the philosophy — ५
Shiv Gyan Mey Jeev Seva. Nothing could resist him to preach that Lord Shiva is
living in the souls ofthe every human being. We again need to do the same.
Now.

Globally.

Playwright:

Asit Basu, the eminent theatre personality of Bengali Stage possessing a unique
ensemble of creativity for diverse ﬁeld. A professional actor, director, playwright,
documentary ﬁlm maker, screen playwright of many mega serials has written many
professionally successful 'stage plays‘ titled as 1799, Kolkatar Hamlet, Rangtar
Mukut, E Mahajagaran, Charandas MLA Evam Nautanki Lal, Hukumnama,
Mrityuheen Pran, Sarnrat, Shiber Gaj an etc. and 'Jatra plays' Krukhestra, Helen of
Troy, Anarkali, Ratnakar Grishchandra, E Mati Aarnar Mati, Namakharam etc.

