Received many awards & felicitations including the Natya Academy Award, Govt. of
West Bengal.
Group:
'Theatre is a continuous process'. A group of students, painters, journalists, doctors
and professionals joined together by a common line of interest - 'theatre'. Formed in
2002, Circle Theatre Company is meant for theatre of courage, strength and
substance.
Participated several times in Bharat Rang Mahotsav and its Satellite Theatre Festival,
Bhartendu Natya Utsav and other festival with its previous productions: Socrates,
Julius Caeser Ki Aakhree Saat Din, Ekla Chalo Re, Pratham Parth, Julius Caeser Ki

Aakhree Saat Din (revival) etc. and this time with its latest production.Parampurush.

Director's Note:

Great men come in rescue of the human race atothe critical juncture of times. Sri
Ramakrishna Paramhamsadev ( 1 83 6 —— 1886) appeared during the tumultuous
transition of the social, political, economic, and religious scenario in the post —
renaissance Bengal, pulling out the rudderless populace from blind alley to the light.
He imparted into society the conﬁdence by strengthening moral values, new ways of
thought, upliftment ofthe down trodden and emancipation ofwomen power. He used
to worship his wife, Ma Sarada as the 'Mother Goddess', the rarest phenomenon under
the sky I have ever heard of.

Our work is a theatrical version of his thoughts not meant for a biographic tale rather
analytical one of Sri Ramakrishna. Yes, one can ﬁnd out the knowing incidents of his
life in it while observing the play- but in a different way with an objective view, often
as a metaphor. What we have tried is — to analyze the historical necessity of the
presence of Sri Ramakrishna, the assimilation of humanism, simplicity, tolerance,

submission, foresight, practicality, faith, leadership, and the divine love in its truest
form and the work for upliftment ofpeople in a particular period oftime. These are the
qualities which made a unique ensemble of spirited, enthusiastic, devoted young
disciples ofdiff'erent natures and moulded them in his own dice without breaking their
own characteristics who gave the practical shape ofhis thoughts.

He admonished Naren for his intense bend towards transcendental truth and reframed
him as the saviour ofthe millions dying in ultimate deprivation. Naren as Swami

