into the depressed
Vivekananda took this message to the world and injected new life
Indian psyche. This Play unfolds this process.
men without
A veil of mysticism and supernaturalisrn is often imposed on these great
ment.
following their thoughts and actions on social justice and individual uplift
being
Anyway, it's a difﬁcult time. The essential identity of human being is
each
underlined by the race, creed and caste with the rapidly growing distance among
other. The globalize sense of being is continuously assaulted by globalize terrorism.
Sri
Reasoning and tolerance are among the ﬁrst casualties. The life and philosophy of
Ramakrishna, the preacher oflove, tolerance and devotion, questions the very

basis of

the environment ofmutual hatred, we are living in now.
I am very much fortunate and feel blessed one that I have been guided by the great
teacher Swami Atmapriyananda; Vice Chancellor; Ramakrishna Mission
Vivekananda University; Belur Math and Swami Shubhabratananda , Belur Math.
Mr. Lakshminiwas Jhunjhunwala, of LNJ Bhilwara Group, an art connoisseur and
disciple of Ramakrishna order, has come forward for making this production
successful. I humbly acknowledge this great contribution and thank him for giving
me his invaluable suggestion from time to time, right from its inception to the stage. ३
Thank you.
December 28, 2008.

Bapi Bose:
Studied at

TA, Kolkata, NSD; New Delhi and NIDA, Sydney, .

Australia; the multifaceted Mr. Bapi Bose is one of the most
prominent radical theatre director of Contemporary Indian
Theatre who has also carved his own niches in the ﬁeld of
Scenography and Stage Illuminations through his unique
innovative style & stage techniques.
Worked with almost all the leading theatre directors of India and
some ofthem ofinternational repute including Ebrahim Alkazi, Prof. Fritz Bennewitz
(GDR), Prof. Franz Haveman; Designer (GDR), Konrad Zcheidrich (GDR), Prof.
Helmich (GDR), Rodney Mariot (USA), Catherine Rao (USA), Brian Thompson;
Designer (Australia), Peter Cooke; Designer (Australia), Prof. Valentine Teplyakov

