Prof. Rob Clare (England), Prof. Habib 'I‘anvir, B. V. Karanth, Ratan 'I‘hiyam, Nisar

Allana; Designer etc.
As an ex-member of NSD Repertory Company and for others Mr. Bose has acted in
leading or major roles in more than ﬁfty productions, designed sets and lights for
more than seventy productions and directed more than thirty productions including
the much-acclaimed production of NSD Repertory Company's Nati Binodini, Dilli
Chalo etc. (in 1997, to mark the three occasions- the Birth Centenary of Netaj i
Subhash Chandra Bose, the Golden Jubilee of India's Independence and the Golden

Jubilee of Indian National Army, directed NSD Repertory Company's prestigious
Mega-Multimedia production— DILLI CHALO, the epic saga of INA's great ﬁght
which was selected for Govt. of India's tribute ceremony- Tribute to the Nation and
staged twice at the historical Red Fort.) Several times won Best Production Award
from SKP, Govt. ofNCT; Delhi. Some ofhis major directorial ventures are 'I'urup Ka

Patta, Sanyasi Ki 'I‘alwar, Socrates, Thurup Cheetu (Malayalam), Julius Caesar Ke
Aakhree Saat Din, Prothorn Partho (Bengali), Ekla Chalo Re, Pratharn Parth, Julius
Caesar Ke Aakhree Saat Din (revival) etc. And this time with a fresh new play, titled
as Pararnpurush.
Participated in national and international festivals, awarded Scholarship (NSD),

Fellowship (NSD) and Senior Fellowship (Dept. of Culture, Govt. of India),
comprehended by various awards and felicitations from different renowned cultural
organizations including Govt. of West Bengal, Govt. ofNCT; Delhi, Netaji Samman
(Gold Medal) from AIFB etc.

Conducted many theatre workshops for various organizations all over the country Mr.
Bose has been in the Visiting Faculty ofNSD and different institutions of India since

1992. Presently he is working as a freelance designer, director, teacher and Artistic
Director ofCircle Theatre Company, Delhi.
On Stage:
Digarnbar Jana

: Manish Manoja

Dr. Mahendralal Sarkar ३

: Shuddhasatwa Banerjee

Brajendranath Seal
Narendranath Dutta

: Abhij it Chakrabarty
: Abhij it Sarkar

.

: Madan Dogra

Keshavchandea Sen

: Subhash Tyagi

‘\O

Bijoykrishna Goswarni

