"JULIUS CAESAR AS SEEN BY US"

written around 1599 AD.

” Julius Caesar" stands amongst

four major tragedies of Shakespeare. But it is not just the tragedy
of a character or any individual but the large theme of State and its
fuctioning unlike othelo, Hamlet etc. That’s why an important actor
in the play is Roman Crowod whether on stege or off stage shouts.
"Julius Caesar"

opens with a scene which could be taken as

illustrative of the whole play in miniature. one It's seventy lines,
sketch the course of action; the way in which human beings are
worked upon by those who have

power to

move

therns,

Through

allusion and image the world of Rome surprisingly not much different
from our surroundings today, is revealed as one of the strange,
unnatural happening which are related to the action.

Julius defeats local chief of the Rome ” Pornpi" and is throwned
as

a

king.

This

issue

beccmes

his supporters who get divided

into

the bone
two

of contention

groups.

Octavious from tte pro-Caesar camp and Cassius, Casca,
Dacius Brutus, Metelus Cirnber

and

party

among

Antonious and

constitute

Cinna

anti-Caesar

camp.
who with
connivance managed to get along with
themselves vulnerable Brutus who is a very close associate and friend
of Julius Caesar.
A conspiracy is hatched and ultimately Julius
caesar is killed by his anti carnpin Senate'n Mark Antony his clever

diplomacy uses
help of people
catharisis. The
Calphurnia and

the prevailirg situation to his gain and with the
and Octavious, the new Caesar brings upon the
Anti camp is defeated. The two female charactersPortia help in highlighting the theme of play and

characterstics of Julius Caesar and Brutus as their wives respecctvely

But in between th is simple story line there is an indepth,
search of human emotions, psyche. weaknesses ambitions, idealisnopportunism etc. It would seem that whatever Caesar’s legendary
reputation might have been, Shakespeare wishes to present him as a
human being with a fair share of human weaknesses. We can see

that something of his seeming arrogance may be due
difference between Elizabethan manners and

to both to a

our and to the necessity

of Caesar’s quite plainly speaking about himself.

