Moliere

Which inﬂuence is the healthiest for a writer of comedies? That of intellectual snobbery

which, in urging him to be subtle, leads him to the strange and sometimes to the absurd?
That of a social or would-be social elite which, in lavishing its favours upon him, keeps
him rigildly to one manner? Or that of the crowd which, in order to understand, asks
that he simplify, even that he somewhat coarsen, the detail and gain in energy what he
loses in ﬁnesse? Let us not underestimate Moliere’s tendency to feel and to show himself
a “friend of the people.” Those people of good stock have for three centuries responded to his friendship. We know

that he liked and associated with the mimes and the tumblers, that he studied them and thoroughly understood them,
that he perfectly discerned in them the extraordinary gift of life which we can in no way imagine, having never

seen them on stage, that he drew every possible lesson from their theatre, and got his ﬁrst elan from them. But
what we ﬁnd astonishing is that he never disdained them, even after he had long surpassed them, that he agreed
to stay with them on a footing of emulation until the end of his career. And far from diminishing his value, those

returns to straightforward playing toned him up and rejuvenated him. judging from the ﬁve or six masterpieces
behind him, there is no doubt that he carried off the prize of his art. I believe he was anxious, if not to become

dazzled—which would have been natural-then at least to seize every opportunity to give new bloom to his gaiety, new
timbre and new bite to his lines, so that on stage he would feel the ﬁrmness of his bearing, the agility of his step
and of his leaps. An emulator and an equal of the purest of the ancients, the author of Le Misanthmpe and 'Iimuﬂe,
a perfect observer of manners and characters, he remained haunted-and this is his singular merit-by a comic poetry
of which truth was merely a prop, and whose Fantasy- or indeed, paroxysm-was to strike, by its élan, hidden
potentialities and to force man, body and soul, into extreme postures.

Moliere’s taste for things primitive and alive kept him from ever falling into the literary. When he imitated
a work of culture, such as Phormio, he knew that he had to look at it from some distance, and thus recover range,

ease, and freedom. He exposed the subject matter of Terence to the irnpetuous scenic current of Flaminio Scala,
which stirred it up, unbridled it, and made it breathe freely. Moliere’s genius was to illuminate everything. He
arranged, condensed, simpliﬁed. In his hands themes took on scope, constructions were tightened and made more
dynamic, dialogues became articluate, ﬁgures gained in stature. Boileau said that they grimace. That was because
they are never seen full-face or in repose but in evolution and in perspective, deformed by the movement that
carries them along. The comedy Les Fourberies is a race, a chase: what the English call horse play, implying
brutality and animal strength. In it one ﬁnds more of the scintillation and glitter of young, ardent, bounding,
intractable, almost savage gaiety, than actually comic aspects.

by Jacques Copean

