ड्डहे'हुँछहुँर्डण्डझाष्ट and The Miser
Molier, (playwright, director, actor.) the comic master of the
modern drama, was a genius who cast an ample shade over
the entire European theatre.
He took to theatre while great iragedians invested aristrocratic and upper middle-class society with jeweled
robes, he stripped it clean to the motley underneath—and
what so :iety does not wear motley underneath ! But he was
no reformer of the militant stamp, although he was intelle—

ctually superior to most men of his generation. He was a
true son of the age. He never roared like Johnson, he
simpty laughed. Hrs comic method was neat and sure. His
plots were lucid, events were scrupulously balanced. His

style was playful and full of humour of the mind. He had
the wisdom to remember the object of comedy as laughter
and entertainment.
In

‘KUNJOOS’,

a

Hindustani adaptation

of

Moliere’s

The MlSER by Hazrat Awara, Mirza Sakhawat Beg, like his
all major characters in other plays, is reduced to a single
comic impulse, and obsession for money which governs
en“ ire action of his lite and the play as well. Mirza is a
ridiculous as well as a great caricature of rniserliness and
covetousness. The repellent rniser Mirza is ﬁnally routed
when the girl he has desired, is married to the son he has
mistreated. Although his grief is lightened by the reﬂection
that his other child, and eloping daughter will be married

‘without dowry. But Mirza is not, indeed sinister ﬁgure; he
is too easily outwitted by the pleasant lovers and he is
genuinely amusing when Alfu exposes his stealing oatsfrom

his horses or when his constitutional aversion to the word
‘give’ compels him to pretend. “I have to see my mail or
good day to you.” He is the most ridiculous of all the
characters and has a touch of pathos, a sense of lost and
bewildered humanity which lends him universal appeal. He
is never deliberately rnelicious, though his satire cuts deep,

which is directed against those who sought to dupe or
entangle the ordinary man.

