Hidden Power
Vidyottama, a ﬁctional play on the wife of
Kalidas; establishes the rights of a woman
in the home and marriage
National School of Drama from
November 4.
“Not much is written about
NUT MUCH is known about Sanskrit’s Vidyottarna and even the story of
greatest poet and playwright, Kalidas. Kalidas isdistortedwhen it reaches us.
Even less is heard about his wife. The I have never been an activist but things
woman who inspired vivid verses on that hit me between the eyes come
sensuality has' been given different into my theatre," says Maharishi.
names and histories by folklorists, The relationship between Kalidas and
singers and storytellers over the cen— Vidyottarna could have emerged from
turies. Mohan Rakesh called her the book of a strident feminist.
Mallika inAshadh Ka Ek Din. Mohan He is the poet laureate. but she raises
Maharishi now imagines her to be दृ the standard of debate of his works.
Vidyott'arna. the daughterofa king and “Whyare all Brahrninsworshipped in
an accomplished classical dancer, in your plays?" she asks. She teaches
his play. Vidyottama The play. enacted him Mohiniyattarn as well as
by the NSDRepertory and directed by supervises the staging ofhis play,
Maharishi. will be staged at Delhi’s Abhijnanasakuntalam. He is mes—

Dl PAN ITA NATH

A scene from the play Vidyottama

rnerised by her beauty and learning,
but she sets the rules - he can ask her
no questions about why she regularly

dance. even as it questions the stereo—
types inherited frorn classical theatre:
“Why is the king above blame even
when he disowns his pregnant wifeas
King
Dushyant
does
in
Abhijnanasakuntalam7" lndian aes—
thetics is uncomfortable with a ﬂawed
hero and Vidyottarna makes a strong
point against the dosh-mukt nayak of
Natyashashtm, an ancient Indian trea—
tise that continues to shape our cre—
ativity. “She challenges Brahrnanical
aesthetics and suggests that theatre
must do morethan provide ananda; it
must present reality even if this is un—
palatable," says Maharishi.
Maharishi's'previous plays include
a biography of Orhan Parnuk called
Istanbul. an exploration of the Theory
of Relativity in Einstein and a slam—
ming of corruption in Raja ki Rasoi.
Working with a mixed cast of experi—
enced and new repertory actors, he
creates Vidyottama with attention to
detail and ishelped by Bhar'ati Sh'waji's
choreography. The play. however. falters in its dialogue delivery as an old
disappears from the palace.
The play speaks in a classical lan- weakness ofNSD graduates in speech
guage in terms of sets. costumes and training surfaces.

