of Science
” What are you working for .7 I maintain that the only purpose

selfis to "ease the hardship of human existence. If scientists, intimidatedly

of
is'e'eking people in power, are content to mass knowledge for the. sake
machines will
knowledge, then Science can become crippled, and your new

er
represent nothing but new means of oppression. With time you may discov
all that is to be discovered, and your progress will only be a progresszon away
from mankind. The gulf between you and them can one day become so great
by a
that your cry of jubilition over some new achievement may be answered

universal cry of horror”.

from Bertolt Brecht’s ’The Life of Galileo’

“The day the bomb was dropped (Hiroshima, Aug. 6, 1945) will be
difficult to forget for anyone who experienced it in the United States. It was
the japanese war which had cost America her real sacrifices. The. troop
transports went offfrom the west coast, and returned there with the wounded

and the victims of Asiatic diseases. When the first news reports reached Los
Angeles, people knew this meant the end of the detested war, the return of
sons and brothers, But the great city gave an astonishing display of‘grief. The
present writer—heard bus-conductors and sales-girls in the fruit markets
express nothing but horror. This was victory; but there was a bitter savour of

defeat about it. Then came the secretiveness of politicians and the military
about the gigantic sources of energy—secrecy which infuriated the
in‘tellectuals.....Great physicists fled precipitately from the serviCe....it had
become a disgrace to discover anything”.

from Notes by Brecht ’The Life of Galileo'

A god, to save the world from poison spreading all over the globe, could
swallow the poison and keep it in his throat, with only the ill-effect that the
throat turned blue. We ourselves are not creations of myth, and fully confronting the greed unleashing untold misery to millions and terrifying the humanity
by threatening it with complete erasure we may, like our play's protagonist, go
mad. Is that why we keep our eyes shut, and attention averted from the on—
going race for nuclear armaments?
Let no visions of fire and wound, of collapsed cities with countless corpses,
of perverted lives and grotesque appearances due to volumes of radioactive
fumes spreading for ever and ever haunt us. Let us not live with a fear gnawing
daily at our entrails that yet another bomb is around the corner. Let there be no
nightmares that there will soon be no dreams - or, even nightmares - for humanity shall be extinct.
Let us work towards that goal, for, we in the twentieth century have a
responsibility, towards the thirtieth century, our future.
Dilip K. Basu

