SOPHOCLES: THE POET/THE PLAYWRIGHT
Born in 495 B. C. about a mile northwest of Athens, Sophocles was to
become one of the great playwrights of the golden age. The son ofa wealthy
merchant, he would enjoy all the comforts of a thriving Greek empire. He
studied all of the arts. By the age of sixteen, he was already known for his
beauty and grace and was chosen to lead a choir ofboys at a celebration ofthe
victory ofSalarnis. Twelve years later, his studies complete, he was ready to
compete in the City Dionysia—~a festival held every year at the Theatre of
Dionysus in which new plays were presen ted.
Sophocles ' greatness as a dramatic writer consisted not so much in his
inventiveness as in his development and rounding out ofthe drama ticforrn
brought into being by Thespis and Aeschylus. One of the great innovators
of the theatre, he was the ﬁrst to add a third actor. He also abolished the
trilogic form. Aeschylus, for example, had used three tragedies to tell a
single story. Sophocles chose to make each tragedy a complete entity in
itself—as a result, he had to pack all ofhis action into the shorterform, and
this clearly offered greater dramatic possibilities. Many authorities also
credit him with the invention of scene painting and periaktoi or painted
prisms, thus greatly increasing the spectacular effect. His odes were
distinguished by their close connection with the business of the play, the
correctness of their sen tirnen ts, and the beauty of their lines. His language,
though sometimes harsh and involved, was for the most part grand and
majestic, avoiding the massive phraseology of Aeschylus and the
commonplace diction of Euripides. In the management of his subjects he
was unrivaled, no one understanding so well the artistic development of
incident, the secret Ofworking on thefeelings, the gradual culmination of
the interest when leading up to theﬁnal crisis, and the crushing blow ofthe
catastrophe, overwhelming the spectators with terror or compassion.
Of Sophocles ' more than 120 plays, only seven have survived in their
entirety. Of these, Oedipus the King is generally considered his greatest
work.
Sophocles, with his just perception of the beautiful in art, eﬂected an
outward realization of the conceptions of the great master, exhibiting in
perfectform before the eyes ofAthens what the other had hewn out in rude
rnassesfrorn the mines ofthough t.

