THE DIRECTOR SPEAKS
Why Antigone?
When you come to NSD to do a production, you enter a teaching situation.
The Academic council has in their wisdom decided that the second year
syllabus must include a classical play. I was approached to do a Greek play
with the class and thereby after a couple ofdiscussions with them I decided
upon Sophocles’ Antigone. For this play would involve and challenge the
en tire class.
Why a Tragedy?
I've seen a Greek comedy in Greece by one of the greatest exponents in the
ﬁeld, Karlos Kuhn, where I witnessed a great level of bawdy humor and
exaggerated physicality taken to its extreme, ironically this was what
brought immense joy to the audiences there. I feel that the cultural
circumstances in India today does not permit us those liberties. Therefore a
Tragedy was the obvious choice.

What were the major concerns while producing this play?
One of the common features of all classical theatres, be it Eastern or
Western is ” frank” theatricality. And that to me is more important an
inputfor the students at this stage of their learning process. Therefore, the
major emphasis is not so much on the Greek period or culture. This is not to
say that considerable research is not required in this area. You need subtle
hints and pointers towards the period rather than an academic
reconstruction.

The timeframe available in any Drama School does not allow an in—depth
research oriented work process for a period to be reconstructed in a
theatrical presentation.
What was the production process like?
We as a team had an enormous task at hand. Theﬁrs t week was devoted to
readings of the script and thereafter auditions for the ﬁnal casting. After
which work started on the ﬂoor with three separate rehearsals being
conducted simultaneously by the music directors, the choreographer
and
me, along with the characters and the chorus. The last week meant
the
integration ofvarious scenic elements with the actors on stage.

How was the spacefor the actual staging created?
The main elements in the Epidaurus are - the Skein building,
the three doors
leading up to the main performance area, the ramps on the
two sides and the
round orchestra pit. The present design of the stage
is abs tracted from the
basic Greek structure. The non- essential elements
have been deleted.
Several practical considerations also go into decid
ing upon a particular
design. As always in any work of art the ﬁrst
few steps are commonsensical dictated by the given circumstances.

