TH E TH E BAN TRI LOGY
Oedipus was the son ofLaius, king of Thebes and his wife, Iocas ta. An oracle had
warned Laius that he wasfa ted to be killed by his own son; he therefore abandoned
Oedipus on a mountainside. The baby was rescued, however, by a shepherd and
brought to the king of Corinth, who adopted him. When Oedipus grew up, he
learnedfrom the Delphic oracle that he would kill hisfather and marry his mother.
Heﬂed Corinth to escape thisfate, believing hisfoster paren ts to be his real parents.
At a crossroad he encountered Laius, quarreled with him, and killed him. He

continued on to Thebes, where the sphinx was killing all who could not solve her
riddle. Oedipus answered it correctly and so won the widowed queen ' s hand. The
prophecy was thusfulﬁlled. Two sons, Polyn ices and Eteocles, and two daughters,
Antigone and Ismene, were born to the unwittingly incestuous pair. When a
plague descended on Thebes, an oracle declared that the only way to rid the land of
its pollution was to expel the murderer of Laius. Through a series of painful
revelations, brilliantly dramatized by Sophocles in Oedipus Rex. the king
learned the truth and in an agony ofhorror blinded himself.
Oedipus at Colonus: Oedipus ‘ sons gained power in Thebes and drove their
हैं ther Oedipus out of Thebes (or allowed Creon to drive him out). The blind
edtp s, accompanied only by hisfaithful daughter Antigone, wanderedfor many
years} Ultimately, the two brothers quarreled when E teocles refused to give up the
throne when it was Polyneices' turn to rule. Polyneices then went to Argos and
Bed an army to attack Thebes and restore him to power. At this point, an oracle
' known that Oedipus would bless and beneﬁt whoever should receive him
exile and give him aﬁnal resting place. At the beginning ofthe play, Oedipus
me to Colonus, a suburb ofAthens, and sought refuge in the grove of the
umenides) there. Theseus, King of Athens, welcomes Oedipus and
him sanctuary; Oedipus, in return, promises the blessing and beneﬁt of
है fee to Athens. Creon, representing E teocles, arrives and seeks to compel
to stun: to Thebes by kidnapping Antigone and Ismene. Theseus
८ s and restores the daughters to Oedipus. Then the other son, Polyneices
८ begs Oedipus tofavor his side in the conﬂict. Oedipus repudiates and
0th his sons and prophesies that they will kill each other in battle.
es leaves determined to meet his fate. Signs from the sky indicate that

Oedipns’ ﬁnal hour has come. Oedipus walks by himself into the middle of the
grove ofthe Furies where only Theseus is allowed to witness Oedipus ' ﬁnal end.
-दुशहै1हेटि२७३८ Some time later; the brothers Polyneices and Eteocles do come
to war and end up killing each other in a fateful single combat. The

'I'hebans, now under Creon, are able to defeat the invaders and spare the
city. Creonaséthe new king announces an edict to the effect that none ofthe
८ di ' 2;; e in ading dead are to receive the rites of burial, including his
“ ३ नौ "
, दुहु
es. Antigone, at this time living in Thebes, determines to

bro

Polyneices in spite of Creon's order and thus comes into

.. th the King. Creon condemns Antigone to death and carries the
t out, despite the protest of his son, Haemon, Antigone's
_
_ and the people's support of Antigone. Finally, the prophet
I has confronts Creon with the error of his actions and Creon repents,

1 , is _, too late: Antigone has died; also, Haemon and Creon's wife
wydiee have both committed suicide. Creon is left, in his own words, "a
‘gcorpse. "

‘

