Mo h an Rakes h
Born on 8 Jan 1925 at Amritsar in Punjab. He was well known for his
unique philosophy, poetic sense, and symbolical presentation in modem indian play writing. His most popular plays like Asadh ka ek din,

Ad/ze adhure, Laharon ke Rajhans brought laurel with rave reviews all

over India. Among all his writings Chhatriyan, a parshva natak was one
of the experimental plays. Last but not the least, he had many awards to
his credit. Unfortunately, he died on 3, December, 1972 - making a
vaccum for modern theatre in India

Chandra Shekhar Patil.
He is Karmad playwright, known for his protagonistic writings. Also,
he has written a number of novels, poems and articles on various subjects. Kodagalu (Umbrella), written by him is a short play in which he
symbolises the whole system of our society with only two charracters,
holding two umbrellas- One is open, the other closed. What he wanted
to talk about in his play was nothing but an absurdity.

Himanshu B Joshi
An upcornming , challenging and young director in Delhi theatre circle.
He started his career in 1985 at pithoragarh in his college life. His strong
determination doing theatre brought him success gradually. A theatre
group, Abhinaya Natya Manch was established by him, which gave him
a good recognition. Before coming to Delhi, he particicipated a 40-day
long work shop ofNational School of Drama (NSD) at Nanital. Then he
came to Delhi with lots of hope and aspiration. Working with eminent
theatre personalities, he summed up a good experience in theatre. Thereafter, he joined Repotoire ofNSD, which gave him a boost to grow like a
creative artist. He is well known as a light designer. Besides, he worked
for some time in Natarang Pratisthan, a theatre resouce Centre as an
editorial assistant in its quaterly theatre journalHis ceaseless effort on
research and creative activities on theatre field made him to work as a
director in different style.
Despite his interest on creative theatre, he writes poems, short stories.
His first ever play directed by him in Delhi was Chane. It was unique of
its kind and selected by Shitya Kala Parisad on its Eleventh Youth Festi val .

