Director’s Note
Whilerliaaiing Chhatriyan, I was totally unaware of what would come
out of it. Puzzled with two different themes, I decided to fuse this into

one in an unique style. At ﬁrst I read thoroughly a couple of playsMohan Rakesh’s Chhatrriyan and the hindi translation of Chandra
Sekhar Patil’s Kodagalu. My sense ofunderstanding forced me present
this play in a style which might confuse you in one way or the other.
What I feel is the fact that these two nataks are the two odd pillars of
our socio-political system- one stands always as the ‘problem’ for a
common man (I refered it a man under democracy) and absurdity
stands for the upper classes as making fun towards common man’s
bread and butter.
Mohan Rakesh deﬁned himself his Chhatriyan as a Parshva natak. It
was an experiment in hindi play writing that still demands creativity.
However, it is my challenge at this juncture when the theatre, it seems,
is going to die. More importantly, this is not only an experiment but a
proper practice or riyaz for an artist- be a director or an actor.
My play talks about the democratic right to fulﬁl a common man’s
needs or desire. My style of staging these kind ofplays is perhaps not
new though, I hope I would come out with something different out of it.

For, it is our team’s effort to select good sound, set designing, lighting
and costume. For instance, costumes we are using, are army personnel ’ s
trousers for the common man, because I feel in any democratic system
the legs of common man are very strong to stand straight on his own
feet and ﬁght for existence. It is a way out to deal with the system that
corrupts our society. In music, I used mostly Indian symphonies, but
the beginning as well as the end ends with English narration to make it
more relevant symbolically.
Of course, it is my pleasure for directing, designing, and acting in it.
Mean while I would like to request the concerned authorities to sweep
out the stumbling blocks like entertainment and police permissions
procedures, which often harass the artists to stage a play. At last I
thank all of my friends for the best of their cooperation. Also I thank
Ajay Shah to evoke me for staging a play, Naresh to choreograph my
vision, Suman Kumar and Madhusudan for coming on stage and Sanj iv

Agnihotri for production, Herna Singh, Vageesh Singh and daughter
॰
॰
ce.
voi
for
ya
Hari Pri
Hunanshu B.Joshr

