The Chalk Circle
Synopsis

Act 1
A revolution is raging in a kingdom; the dukes conspire. remove the king and execute the governors

of the provinces. Our story relates to one such governor. He has a male child, who is brought up
in all regal pomp and care. Our story opens with the governor visiting the temple with his entourage.
his palace is in the meantime captured by the revolutionists. There is confusion all around; the
governor's wife ﬂees. She is only concerned about rescuing her own jewellery and riches. The child
is left behind to fend for itself. The child is saved by the palace kitchen-maid Guruvamma whom
the plight of the child affects very much. She ﬂees the palace with the child. with the revolutionists

in hot pursuit. who are keen to capture and kill the governor's child.
- Guruvamma does not heed the advice of others to leave the child to its fate and escape. She faces
many dangers on her way to safety. Soldier Singan is Guruvamma‘s lover. He has to leave her with
the outbreak of the civil war. They decide to marry when the war is over.
Act 2
Guruvamma wants to reach the village where her brother lives. On the way she buys milk for the
child from a villager. At one stage she is so overcome with apprehension about saving the child.
that she decides to leave it with a peasant woman and go her way. The peasant woman is happy

to have the child and wants to bring it up as her own. But the soldiers arrive and question her
about the child. She panics and betrays Guruvamma. Guruvamma has to ﬂee again with the child.
She just manages to cross a crumbling bridge. narrowly escaping the pursuing soldiers.
Act 3
Guruvamma ﬁnally reaches her brother's house. Her sister-in-law looks at her and the child with
suspicion. Fearing a scandal. they decide to marry her off to a dying man.
The wedding scene. ~

Singan returns from the battlefront. He is perplexed to see Guruvarnrna with the child. The soldiers
capture the child playing in the street. Guruvamma follows them bitterly crying.
Act 4
(The story of the judge)

Ayyasami is a poor village clerk. The ﬂeeing king in disguise asks him for help and hides in his
. house. Ayyasami saves him from the soldiers who come searching for him. Later Ayyasami is full

of remorse for his act of charity to the tyrant king. His treachery to the people goads him to
shackle himself and go -to the court of law. demanding to be hanged for his guilt.

But the judge has already been executed by the people. The dukes scheme to instal an idiot as
judge. The people reject him. Suddenly Ayyasami ﬁnds himself appointed as the judge on the
impulse of the people.

'

३

A trial at which Ayyasami presides.

The child whom the soldiers captured from Guruvamma is brought to Ayyasami‘s court. Guruvarnrna
and the governor's wife appear and both claim the child. The case is before Ayyasami for arbitration.
Ayyasami bows to the governor's wife.

