Director's Note

This is a presentation of Brecht's “Chalk Circle“ as a gmup of folk artistes have understood it. i have
adapted the play to suit to the idiom of the folk players (Koothars). Songs are rendered in typical
folk style. Those who look for a neat. sophisticated production of Brecht‘s chalk circle might be a
bit disappointed to see this version of Brecht.
I couldn't think of another dramatist from the West who could be more relevant to our present socio-

political set up than Bertolt Brecht.
I discovered Brecht while working with the folk artistes. Brecht wrote his plays for them perhaps.
Anyone who knows the condition of Tamil theatre today. will perhaps appreciate me for taking up
this venture. while the ‘pandits' ‘scholars' ‘critics' and ‘intellectuals' who have read and seen Brecht
will not pardon me.
हं३ ३ ---....__...-._ - - ._.~_.

हुँ

.-

w

,_

I — K.S. Rajendran —

क्तिरेंएँड्डेझरु .,, 1 1-1 ‘23:; W “‘1'
३०५…- s _.
५.५-८ «x

' क्ति ४.-

W …
- M“...
फि

INGEBORG MAYER. born 1954. had her ﬁrst experience in stage and street-drama in 1975/76.
1979-82 she studied in Wroclaw/Poland at the theatre laboratory of Jerzey Grotowsky. Further. she
worked intensively with Amos Hetz (Tel Aviv) and involved herself in “Movement Theatre". With

Jack Chawtt (New York) she experimented with practical application of the Stanislawsky method.
1982/83 she toured Europe. America and Nigeria with the American touring theatre “Caravan of

Dreams”, 1984-86 she spend on the research ship ”Heraclitus" in charge of group dynamics and
cultural studies, and conducting workshops in Australia. Singapore and Sri Lanka.
In 1986 she conducted the body and voice training for the actors who participated in the German-Sri

Lankan production of Hugo von Hofmannsthal‘s “Everyman" in Colombo. After that she toured to
Bangladesh. Pakistan. lndia for teaching her method. In 1987 she was working with the group of
Rena Mirkea (Grotowsky School).

K.S. RAJENDRAN, a graduate of National School of Drama (NSD). New Delhi now working in the
theatre wing of Sangeet Natak Akaderni. New Delhi. has directed several plays for Koothu-p-pattarai:
N. Muthuswamy's “Kattiyakkaran” and “Suvarottikal”, Vijay Tendulkar's “Amaithai Court Nadakkirathu".
G. Shankara Pillai's "Moonru Pandithargal". Was Assistant Diurector of the play GALILEO by Bertolt
Brecht directed by Prof. Fritz Bennewitz at NSD; Conducted several theatre workshops at schools.
colleges and Universities in Tamil Nadu; Fellow of the Tamil Nadu Council of Historical Research
during 1986-87 to work on a research project entitled: “Politics and popular Tamil Drama. Now
actively involved in promoting Tamil theatre at Delhi.

PURISAI KANNAPPA THAMBlRAN. one of the oldest living exponents of the art of THERUK KOOTHU.
He is well-known for his characterisation of mythological roles and improvisational ability. He has
taken part in several cultural festivals all over lndia and has been awarded prestigious titles including
“Kalaimamani” of the Tamilnadu Government. Of all folk performers he is the only artist who is
receptive to modern technique and idiom of stage presentations.

