In this ‘rnonth’s eNatya Chaupal, an initiative of
Mumbai Theatre Guide and Astitva, theatre
(: ‘

stalwarts, Manoj Shah and Utkarsh Mazumdar
will reminisce on the good old days of Gujarati
theatre. We chat up Shah
I

Reminiscing the Bhangwadi days of
Gujarati theatre...
Manoj Shah in conversation with
Utkarsh Mazurndar
'
eNatya Chaupal: Friday, July 17, 7 b m.
Online — http://www.enatyachaupah3

com
Language : Gujarati

M anoj Shah

No. In my productions, I have
roped injournalists, writers and poets. Most of them are young. My play
Hun Chandrakant Bakshi was writ:
ten by a journalist, Shishir Ramawat.
Similarly, another play, Manilal
Nabhubhai Dwivedi was written by
Mihir Bhuta, who works in the television industry. Vishal Doshi, who is,
just 19, has written my Mohan Mas-

.51

4 scene from the play Master Phoolmani.

[AMBIKA SHALIGRAM

t00. My Bhaangwadi" play, Master
Phoolmam' (based on Satish Alekar’s
Begum Barve) has drawn rave reviews from the audience. There are
44 songs in the play and yet there’s
a repeat audience. People, who have
been watching comedies and commercial plays, are surprised when
they see this performance. They
come up to me later and say, “Manojbhai, aaj maja aaya. Aisa bhi ho
sakta hat.”
I think the audience has a sense
of what is good and bad. But if marketing interests step in, then the audience has only limited options. I
would like to say that there’s an audience for all genres.

qlq. ‘He started off as a child actor in

features@sakaa|times.com

' Schoolchildren and collegiang" ' बोई-बmy play Mareez. For Mohcm Masa‘ anoj Shah’s theatre
group in Mumbai —
Ideas Unlimited, is one
of the parallel voices
on Gujarati stage. His
plays like Master Phoolmani, Hun Chandrakant
Bakshi and Mareez have been lauded, running to packed houses. Intact,
Mareez has been playing at Prithvi
Theatre, Mumbai for 11 years now.
In our interaction with Shah, he ap-‘
pears to be optimisticabout the Gu-

jarati theatre scene in Mumbai and
in Gujarat. Excerpts from the conversation:
३

have gifted regional languages a new
idiom - a mix of Hindi/Marathi
and English or any other dialect that
they can speak. Purists might lament
the death of ‘purity’. I am in the process of assimilating this idiom in my
plays. I had staged three productions
for children. They don’t. come alone
to watch plays, their grandparents
and parents too come along. So in the
development of a play, I have some
characters who speak pure Gujarati,
the way it was spoken some 100 years
ago, and there are a few young voices
who speak the current lingo. I jumble 7
up tongues, the past andpresent, in
the hope that when my audience goes
back home, they talk about the play ८

and their roots.

५

»

la, I wanted a young perspective, and
Vishal ﬁt the bill perfectly
In Saurashtra, there’s Viral Roch,
in Surat, there’s Kapil Dev 'Shukla
and in Ahmedabad, there are Kabir
Thakur and Saumya Joshi. Dhar—
mendra Gohil, who used to work
with me and has now branched out
on his own, was recenlty seen in Kedar Shinde’s Marathi movie, Agabai Arrecha 2. There’s Ritesh Sodha
too, who is doing good work. These
youngsters straddle both mainstream
movies and experimental plays. ,

_
5८
पृ
- दृ.
_ . : > _ दृ . .sr- :
Yes, we are trying to exmriment. . , " ,
And, there are soapoperaLtype' plays f

ﬁBhaangwadi is a locality in Kalbadevi,
umbai. In the pie-Independence era, it was
the hub ofGujarati and Palsi nataks. Bhaang, .
in Marathi, means opium. And, the area was
so named, because it was a stronghold of
Gujarati and Parsi opium merchants. In the
theatre lineage, Bhaangwadi theatre was
a musicalfeaturinglive musicians. They
८ becamésofamousthat Gujarati theatre
hiatoiy has claimeda musical tradition called
Bhaangwadi.) '
"' I
दृ
:-

