STORIES ABOUT FREEDOMS

The ﬁnal year students of N.S.D. (1997-98) are opening their academic year with the presentation of two shows
”Katha Collage—7" and "Katha Collage-8". These are presentations of short stories with bare minimum theatrical
paraphernalia. Sri Devendra Raj Ankur, who had introduced a new genre into Indian theater "Kahani Ka
Rangmanch" is directing this process where the actors
choose the stories of their liking and present them without
"dramatising" or changing their structure and yet make it
a theatrical presentation. This process, where the director
is a catalyst, brings out the preferences and outlook of the
actors in story - selection and gives full scope for their
capabilities as performers. Here is a modern continuation
of Indian tradition in performing arts which is chieﬂy
narrative.
As the actors are part of contemporary society, this
whole process represents its concerns. "Katha Collage-7"
starts with the veteran writer-poet Agneya’s short-story
"Sharandaata" set in Lahore at the time of partition. It is
a way of remembering the beginnings of the ﬁfty years of
Independence. It is a story of violence, enemity and fear
but it also portrays humane concern amidst all this. The
rest of the stories span ﬁve decades of Independent India
with their own attitudes and understandings.
"Saal Ka Ek Mausam-Mausam Ke Teen Din" by
Chandrasekhar Rath is a satire at the notions of status and
importance in society which do not allow individuals to be
free human beings. Even friends can't meet without painfully realising the walls of socio—economic ranks dividing
them.
"Mohabbat" by Jagadambaprasad Dikshit portrays the
same theme but as a tragedy. A young man drifting at the
margins of job-market fails to return the love and affection shown to him by an ageing prostitute. The walls that
limit individual freedom are many-social norms, economic
constraints and tensions between aspirations and reality.
"Haalipa" by Yadavendra Sharma "Chandra" is woven around a custom among Rajasthani tribals where a
suitor is to work as unpaid labourer under the girl's father

in order to marry her. It shows a hard-working man submitting to all trials for his goal of marrying his beloved.
But a currupt society subverts its customs for selfish ends.
Finally, more than trying surnission to tradition, ﬁerce
rebellion gives freedom.
"Katha Collage-8" has two stories on the so called
"modern" attitudes and one fantacy, "Agli Shatabdi Ke
Pyar Ka Rehearsal" by Akhilesh satirises the materialistic notions of freedom leading to empty and false human
relations. It shows a young man and woman who are in
love by calculations of social and economic advantages.
As a result their love-affair is a series of strategies and
calculated steps without any emotional or heart-felt feel—
ings.
"Eyes of a Blue Dog", a story by Gabriel Garcia
Marquez translated into Hindi by Prayag Shukla, creates
a dream world which can be understood at many levels. It
is a dream of a man where he meets the girl whom he
meets every night in his dream. Both of them want to
meet in reality. But she, in the dream can't remember in
which city she lives in inreality and he, in real life can't
remember the code-word "Eyes of a Blue Dog" when he
wakes up. She keeps writing "eyes of a blue dog" on every
wall in the city she lives in and keeps shouting it everywhere. But he can't remember the words once he wakes
up .
"Ta-Taa" Professor Shashti Vallabh Pant by veteran Manohar Shyam Joshi portrays the Indian mind, trying
to forget some painful aspects of the past and in the pro—
cess getting enslaved to another power. In order to coverup the guilt of his past life, Professor "Ta-Taa" takes
refuge in English language and uses it as a weapon to

dominate others. This satire hilariously portrays a typical
section of Indian middle-class.
As the work on the stories is progressing, the students
are realising that all these stories are about various constraints to individual freedom that we have been facing
after political independence is achieved ﬁfty years ago.
—Rajiv Velicheti

