About the UTSAV
In January, 1987 at the guest house of Lalit Kala Akaderni in New I Delhi, a
few young theatre-workers inchding Dhira Mullick, Parvez Akiitar, Kaushik D'utta
Sharma and Ali Hyder met in an informal set tosether to give birth of a new idea
—-—that is to organise a national theatret festival.
Moreover, ‘Nata-Sainik’ also had an idea, since the very moment of its birth
to hold a national theatre festival—with the sole aim of creating an atmosphere
of harnony and co-ordination among the theatre-workers of different parts of India,
The JATIYA NATYA UTSAV '92 is an integrated consequence of all these ideas,
But it is our misfortune that we could not organise the festival as it should have
been. It is primarily because of the critical finacial condition, which is a consequ.
ence of the current situation of

this region.

: We desired to involve in this festival all the veteran & young theatre-workers
of our Locality. But we poorly failed to do so only because of our
mistakes,

inability and limitations.
We tried our utmost to make the souvenir attractive; but
we failed in this field
also as the write-ups, inforrnations and documents
were not received in proper time

However, overcoming numerous hurdles at last we have
been able to hold the
festival, which we account as a suand success for
us for the time being, of course
there are so many people and organisations whose
contribution to the Lfest must
not be forsotten. Ar this moment, we most
heartily thank them all.
A no of theatre festivals of this kind has
very recently been held in Various
places of Assam inclnding Dibrugarh. But
an important fact is that all these festivals was held as the initiative of one
or the other voluntary theatreorganisatio
ns.
All those small places, which are contri
buting reasonably to the theatre-movemen
t
of Assam with new thoughts and ideas,
deeply feels the necessity of theatre festiv
als
of this kind. Such festivals are required
to carry on new experiments on theatre
on theatre which may result in the devel
opment of the whole theatrical atmosphere
of Assam.
It can be remembered that the Gove
rnment has and independent depar
tment
to boost up such efforts. But it
is a shame that this department is
confi
ning
snch
festivals only within Guwahati and
a Limited no of Other cities.
As
a
consequence,
this deptt. totally fails to make
any contribution to the entire th
eatrical movement
of Assam. However, the Light of hope
is that all those neslected small
places
are still going on with their efforts—ov
ercoming all the obstruction in front of
them.
Hoping to organise more attractive as
well as more effective festival in the
near future,

Navajit Bhuyan
On behalf of Souvenir,

Nata-Sainik datiya Natya Utsav ’92
North

Lakhirnpur.

