IANAVAK
The National Authentic Folk Dance Group
Darpana Academy of Performing Arts, Ahmedabad,
India

This department for the revival and preservation of folk forms. be they
music dance, drama or others, was born in I 982. It runs a school for
the training. teaching and documenting of Bhavai, Guiarat's folk drama
form. Bringing old teachers and performers from the vi I Iages, the
school gives them ﬁnancial support, and gives scholarships to
students to learn from them. Besides this, Ianavak also commissions
research into folk traditions and funds monographs on the same.
Janavak has two performing groups. The ﬁrst, involved in Bhavai,
works closely with the Drama Department at the Darpana Academy
of Performing Arts. The second is a group for folk dancing under the
direction of Mallika Sarabhai. This group, with 30 members, studies
and presents folk dances from many different parts of India - Anth ra
I’radesh. Assam, Bengal, Gujarat, Kerala. Lakshadweep, Mad hya
Pradesh, Maharashtra. Manipur, Nagaland. Orissa. Punjab, Rajasthan.
and Tamilnadu.
The group which has performed extensiver abroad, is connected to
the International des Organizations de Festival Folklorique, an
international body of folk arts based in France.

C0 STU M ES
In India the costumes worn for different folk dances are the same as
those worn even today in the rural areas. Regional varieties are very

great, as are the range of colours. Costumes of dances from desert
regions tend to be very bright, as though to compensate for the
dryness of nature, while those from the I ush green regions tend to be
plain or white. Women's costumes range from the saree worn in
many different ways to the sarong-I i ke I ungi and wide skirts. The
men’s clothes range from the unstitched dhoti and bare chests to
tapering trousers and waist- coats. The aclornrnents and jewellery also

show the same variety and the same contemporary usage going
from beads and shells to silver and gold.

INSTRUMENTS हूँस्थाहुँहुँहुँहुँगृश्या
The most important component of the music of Indiancfoqkl slag-lie. be
it from the north or the south, is perhaps the range of percussion
instruments. Each State has different percussion instruments and very
different rhythms. The other instruments traditionally used are wind
instruments like the ﬂute, the pungi and the bhungal.

