THE REPERTOIRE
ANDHRA PRADESH
Gobbi — This vivacious harvesting dance from Anclhra is done by robust
young women in the ﬁelds teasing each other about lovers and romances. It
is gay and ﬁlled with energy and humour.
Kolattam ~ Like the Bhil community people in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Orissa
and Manipur, in Andhra also the young boys and girls meet at local fairs.

They sing and dance together recalling the harvest season and festivals as
well. They also try to wear their best clothes and jewellery when they go to
the fa i r.

ASSA M
lushai Bamboo Dance — The rnizo tribe from Assam live in a
bamboo-growing area and it is natural that these are used in their dancing,
being the mainstay of their existence. The square formed by the barnboos
placed across one another looks deceptively simple. The simple rhythms
and the increasing tempo combine with dancers hopping in and out of the
bamboos. etching intricate patterns by their movements, leading to
excitement as the hops turn into furious leaps, ducks, and bounds. Variations
of the bamboo dance exist allover South East Asia.

B E NG A l
Purulia Chau - “Chau” means a mask. This masked dance comes from
Purulia in West Bengal. The story is of Abhimanyu, the son of the famous
Arjuna. The dance recounts how young Abhirnanyu ﬁghts a courageous
battle against the Kaurava and his own teacher, but is killed through
deception. This dance is performed only by men and the songs are sung in
Bengali.

GUJARAT
Gujarat as a state has perhaps an unparalleled variety of folk and tribal
dances:
Dandiya Raas — Dandiya raas can be done by either women or men or
both. The dancers hold two short sticks in their hands. sometimes tied with
small bells. The male raas is very fast and vigorous. Different variations with
distinctly different rhythmic combinations exist in the many regions of
Gujarat.

Garba - This women ‘5 dance originated as a circular dance of fertility, with a
central locus around which the women moved . Many variations of this
dance exist in Gujarat today.
0.

