दृ
I

Rumal Dance - This is a wedding dance from North Gujarat, done when

the event is beginning. It is primarily a male dance with the women only
introducing the dance with a separate piece called the Heench, which takes
its name from a rhythm.
Bhil - The hunter-tribes of India always present a picture of gaiety in colour

and .spirit. This Bhil dance of the Panchmahals in Gujarat is to celebrate
weddings. The men carrying bows and arrows as a sign of their valour,
dance with gay abandon with their women twirling colourful fans.
Tippani — Many of the folk dances of India have evolved from the daily
work of the men and women in the villages. The Tippani is one such dance
which has developed from the task of levelling the ground by pounding
upon it with long sticks. Done by women, its vigour portrays their spirit
through their work.
Dhar'ampur — These dances are performed by the tribes of Dhararnpur in
Gujarat State at the religious festival of Holi, the festival of colours. The
dancers of these tribes use boxes made out of tin as percussion
instruments.
Dangi Dance — Dang is a very thickly forested tribal region of Gujarat where
the tribal culture has been preserved to a very great degree. The dances are
performed by both men and women and are very energetic, acrobatic and
swift. The main music is the drums and a wind instrument called the
“I’ungi”. Many gymnastic feats are included in the dance.

The Gauf - The Gauf is one of the dances where the dancers weave
patterns on a pole with many-colou red ropes, dancing vigorously at the
same time. It is similar to the rnaypole dance of Europe in concept, but is
perhaps more complex in design.
Rathva — This is a tribal dance, from Chhota-Udaipur of Gujarat normally
performed at Holi festival. The body is painted with various designs and the
dancers tie big bells on their waist and dance rhythmically to the music of
the dhol.

Phuleko — Phuleko is a wedding dance from Gujarat. In India child marriage
still exists in many villages. In Phuleko the bridegroom and bride are
brought for the wedding by relatives and friends singing songs,
accompanied by dancing.
Hudo - This dance is from Saurashtra in Gujarat State. It is usually done by
both men and women, specially during the Tarneter fair(me|a) held every
year, which is very popular as a display of its cultural values. The dancers use
colourful handkerchiefs tied on their hands. The costumes are also very

colourful.

Shiva Celebration Of The Banaskantha Bhils — The Bhil community of

