Khedbrahrna sings and dances in praise of Lord Shiva and Devi
Parvathi. The song describes the marriage procession of Lord Shiva to
I’arvati’s house where she waits for Shiva.

KERAI.A
Kalkotﬂkall - The festival of Onarn is the New Year for the people of
Kerala. In the lush green paddy ﬁelds surrounded by palm fronds and
blue lagoons, young girls make a circle of ﬂowers and forming a circle
around, dance. The weaving gestures signify the emergence of
shoots and new leaves. This folk form has been greatly inﬂuenced by
the classical dance of the state, Kathakali, and Mohini Attam.
Oppana - This is a bridal dance associated with Muslim wedding
ceremonies in Malabar in Kerala State. The bride is mentally prepared
for the nuptial night by her close friends in colourful costumes through
the sequence of dance-cum- music. This is an occasion of great
celebration and rnerrirnent.

L A KSHA DWEEI’
Kolkali - This is a most popular folk dance of the Islands done by
male dancers. They form pairs and dance in a circle to the
synchronous beating of the sticks they hold. The dance is
accompanied by rhythmic folk songs. During the dance different
alignments are formed; slowly at ﬁrst and ultimately ﬁnishing in a
brisk and frenzied tempo. The name Kolkali means dance with
sticks.
Attam — This form of dance is speciﬁc to the northern Islands of
Lakshadweep. The word attam means dance. Young and old men
and women participate in this by exhibiting rhythmic body
movements.

Lava — This is one of the most colourful and beautiful dance sequences
of the Islands but conﬁned to Mi nicoy Island. The dancers wear
colourful costumes and carry special drums of indigenous make. The
rich proﬁle is made up of profuse movements, impressive drum beats
and vocal accompaniment.

MADHYA PRADESH
Gond Dance - In Madhya I’radesh, the gond tribals are a strong
agrarian community where men and women share equal workloads.
The gonds use stilts to cover long distances through marshes and
tracks and this has evolved into a unique dance. The women

