participate equally in this, as in life, being vigorous partners to their men.

M A H AR AS HTR A
Lavani — The Lavani is an important feature of the traditional drama form of
Tarnasha from Maharashtra. it is probable that it originated as a part of an
entertainment for soldiers in army camps. This gay and ﬂirtatious dance is
done by women.

M AN IPU R
Lai Haraoba — This dance of the Mei bis depicts the life-cycle through
movements, from birth‘through growth, building shelter, weaving,
searching for ﬁre and cultivation.
Spear/Sword Dances - These dances, usually performed for royalty in
Manipur, combine the ancient martial arts technique of Thanytha with
dance-like movements. The movements are sinuous and the leaps
magniﬁcent.
Maibee — This dance comes from the eastern part of the country, Mani pu r.
and was in ancient times performed in the temples by the Mai Bees who
were the temple dancers. This is therefore a ritual dance. very graceful and
greatly inﬂuenced by the classical Manipuri dance and performed only by
women.

Mao — This dance from Manipur is basically a harvest dance, but performed
on all festive occasions. It is danced both by men and women with a drum
and a bull’s horn used as percussion instruments.

N AG A L A N D
Dances of the A0 Tribe — This piece combines the Naga Wadi r Tsungsang,
a dance of challenge to enemies; Tenern Tsungsang (Hornbill dance) which

is an imitation of hornbills as they hop from one branch to another of the tree
searching for enemies; Sangroshi Tsungsang - joyous dances by young girls
and boys exchanging admiring glances; Nokinkuter Tsungsang - a hunter
dance displaying bravery and the heroic spirit; O-Sang-So — a triumphant
dance display by the warriors just after they return from war with trophies;
Esuloksi - A kind of warm—up dance during festivals; Kokifetsu - imitation of
a spider.

0RISSA
Tribal Dance from Sambalpur - In Sambalpur, boys and girls gather on an
evening in the spring and dance to the beat of the rnandavi drum. Though

