the dancers are not organized. the steps are patterned. falling into a natural
rhythm back and forth and round and round.

PUNJAB
Giddha and Bhangra — Cries of Balle-Balle ﬁll the air as men of the Punjab
dance the robust bhangra to the accompaniment of a hearty song and
rhythmic cl rum beats to celebrate the festival of Baisakhi , the coming of
Summer.This is often accompanied by the women's Giddha which is
simultaneously graceful and robust. Dressed in bright clothes, the women’s
arms wave gracefully, reminiscent of wheat ready for harvesting in the ﬁelds
ofthis agricultural land.

RA]ASTHAN
Wedding Dances Of Rajasthan — Dancing is an intrinsic part of all festive
seasons in lndia and at a wedding many types of dances are often
performed together.

Teratali — Teratal i is the dance of the cymbals. The girls beat each and every
cymbal tied to their hands, legs and arms, with fast movements. The
dancers use I 3 cymbals and that is why this dance is known as Teratali.
Ghumar — Ghumar is a popular dance done by women at wedding. Girls
dance with decorated sticks, sometimes incorporating the gentle Rasiya
form; their skirts sway and they sing songs to their loved ones.
Ghumra - The Bhil adivasis in Rajasthan, like their community in Gujarat,

love to sing and dance. The Cuhumra is fast. joyous and vivacious, as girls
and boys meet and sing at the local fair.
Bhavai - In this Rajasthani Bhavai, the dancer balances several pots on his
head and dances to rhythmic music.

Kalbelia - The Kalbelias are traditional snake charrners and wander the
desert regions of Rajasthan. Dressed in stunning black with transparent black
veils covering their bejeweled heads, the women twirl to the sound of the
clhol and pangi reﬂecting the swaying of the snakes that are their
companions.

TAMI LN ADU
Kummi — This dance, done in a circle by young women at harvest time,

has been greatly inﬂuenced by the classical Bharatanatyarn. It is a light and
gay dance with a lot of skips and clapping of hands. Similar Kurnrnis are also
found in Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.

