_, __l

Silk route to ieriiago
r11

‘ I/Qihina’s Gansu Opera House will recreate the routes that linked the dragon
v/country to regional neighbours through dance, martial arts and music. Artistic

direCtor PENG DEMING tells RIYA SHARMA that the troupe will be using
traditional instruments like Pipa and Guzheng in the performance

IWith the increase in popular .culture, has the appeal of traditional
Chinese opera gone down?
Chinese Opera is about artistic

drama, rich heritage and cultural
essence. Our pro rarnme Charm of
Dunhuang was eveloped in 2004

after three years of tireless effort by
artistes of our opera house. We have
delivered more than 180 perfor—
mances in Guangdong Province and
100 shows in Dunhuang City of
China. Ever since, the dance has been
बु performed
successively
in
r" Kazakhstan, Syria, Bahrain, Bulgaria,

1" Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Nepal,
] Malaysia and Macau in name ofthe
,३ Ministry of Culture ofChina.
है: I'I‘ell us more about this ' dance
हुँ form? Is it only limited to traditions
3 of China or inspired by the fusion

of other cultures.
I
This story is inspired by the
है ancient silk roads that linked China
i with many countries reaching right
. to the Mediterranean Sea.‘A key loca-

' tion on those silk roads was at
‘ Dunhuang in China. Another source
of inspiration for the performance are
the murals in the caves of Dunhuan .
Both the silk roads and the rnura s
embrace deep symbolism of Chinese
history and culture. It has thrilled
audience around the world with
more than 2,600 performances.
' I'Ehe Gansu opera draws inspiration from ancient snlk roads that
३ linked China with other countries
in former times. How do they bring
it together in a dance form?
we have set the stage design with
charming snapshots of ancient China

on folk music with distinct charac—
teristics to engage the audience. We
shall be using a lot of traditional.
instruments such as Pipa and
Guzheng for our performances. Also
our costumes/draperies are exquisite and adds to the representation of
the rich Asian-Chinese culture. It is
a visual delight and one has to see it
for understanding the artistic expressions involved.
II-Iow is traditional Chinese opera
differentkfrom European operas?
Operas are artistic dramas with
few characteristics that distinguish
them from the other. The Gansu
Provincial Opera House has performed in the west and have always
have been loved and appreciated for
the draperies of different dynasties
with folk music of rich content and
traditional Asian Chinese instruments. So, the presenting method of
Chinese Dance in comparison with
Western dances like ballet are very
different.
Will the performance only involve
dance or the Indian audience will
also get to see the pinch of martial

arts and aerobics? Does the Chinese
opera also involve these two?

The programme designed for
Indian audiences is very ric . One of
our performances is called the

Thousand Hand Bodhisattva Guanyx‘n
is inspired by Buddhism culture, originated in India and widely practised
in Asian-Chinese culture. Our other

performances shall include the
Playing of Pipa, Covered-cup Tea,
Magical Crescent-moon Spring and
Chinese Wushu — Martial Arts et al.
We shall also showcase sword dance,
which should be very interesting for
the audiences.
lIs there any striking feature ofthe
dance form that is similar to any of
the Indian dance forms?
While presenting the cream of
classical Chinese dance and music,

this show also draws influences
from ballet dance, Western music, as
well as dancing techniques in Indian
and Central Asia. It features ori inal artistic design with a surprise e ement specially added for the Indian
audiences.
The show is organised at FICCI KK Biria
Auditorium today

