About the Director

About the Group
. The year was 1979, when a small effort was launched in the field of children's
theatre, and was appropriately christened Urnang, by its charioteer, Ms. Rekha

lain. She evolved the concept of neighborhood theatre where children With varied
economic and social backgrounds from the locality came together to put up a play.
She used a combination of dance, music and theatre in each of her plays to provrde

an opportunity and to discover the creative talents of each child.
Every summer, Urnang organizes a workshop including improvisation, story
telling sessrons, painting competitions. mask rrraking, singing and dancing that
culminate in a play, Eminent directors and well known personalities like B.V.

Karanth, Biriu Maharaj and others have been associated wrth Urnang Urnang's
prays are evolved during the workshops and they plays have a moral and social
value and often serve as a message for the times that we live in From highlighting
the universal terror of rrraths in Gan/t Des/r to bravery of young children in Bahadur
Chunnu, the ignorance and lack of respect for Indian classical music in Sa Re Ga
Ma Taft Dhi'na Dhirr
to the adaptation of
popular folk tales like
the Red Riding HoodChhoti Laa/ Koshi,

Puss in Boots- Bil/i
Ka Khe/ . …ऱ1गृ9 list is
end less.
Urnang has constituted
the Rekha lain Bal
० Rang Sarnman, an

award for outstanding
contribution in the
field of children's
theatre, which was
given to Harrkrrshrra
Devsare and Bansi
Kaul in its first year
in 20lO.

About the Play
As a tribute to the memory of Rekha Jain Urnang presents excerpts from three
plays originally written, designed 8 directed by here Khe/ Khr/onon Ka Sansaar,
Gan/t Desh तो Swadheenta Sarrgram. Through these three plays one can notice
the various aspects of her work-be it the understanding of the world of children,
the idea of combining theatre with education or the desire for rncreasrrrg the
knowledge about our history in the present generation.
Khe/ Khr/ono Ka Sansaar is about the world of toys. A shopkeeper sells his
toys only to rich and proud customers at high prices, who do not really care
for those toys and does not allow poor boys to touch his toys. The toys stage a
successful protest against this attitude. Gan/t Desh highlights the universal terror
of rrraths. Sonu hates maths and she refuses to study the subject. Her parents
hide everything, which is related to numbers. One night in her dreams sonu visits
a country of numbers. There she discovers a new fascinating world of numbers.
Swadheenra Sang/am is about lndian's freedom struggle. The play captures very
Simply and theatrically the turning points of the freedom struggle, finally leadrrrg to
independence in 1947

being a
Harish Verma is a multi-talented and a well-accomplished artist Apart from
as
musicran
and
dancer
actor,
skilled
a
is
he
designer,
stage
and
playwright, director
at Bal
welle Born on 3rd December 1969, Sh Verma started his education in music
has
Bhavan in 1979 and later worked as an instructor at the same institution. He
learnt kuchipudi dance from the well known dancer Swapna Sundari for two years
India like
and sitar from Gandharv Mahavrdhyalaya. Apart from many places Within
to countries
. Jamrriu-Kashmir, Bangalore, Chennai, Trivendrum etc , he has travelled

like Russia, Bulgaria and Germany. He has been assocrated With ‘Umang’ for the
last 23 years and has acqurred knowledge of various methods of providing theatre
many
training to children under the tutelage of Smt. Rekha Jain He has directed
plays like Thirrhankar Mahavrr. Rustarn Sohraab, A/ibaba, Kabu/wa/a, Bar/u Bawra.
He has been honoured as a music director in the Yuva Mahotsav of Sahitya Kala
Parishad, Delhi. Currently he is acting in a hindi serial 'Chhupa Rustam' and working
as a Drarnarteacher at Mahavrr Senior Model School,

Rekha Jain
Smt. Rekha lain, a senior theatre personality dedicated
to the theatre world for more than srxty years, founder
director of the leading children’s theatre group, Urnang,
was born in a conventional family at Agra on September
28, l924.She started her drama career in 1943 With her
husband Shri Nemichandre lainv renowned poet 8 critic,
through a play Anti/n Abhr/asha, directed by Shri Sharnbhu
Mitra as part of lPTA during the Bengal famine She
played a key role in dance dramas pertaining to freedom
movements in association wrth cultural organizations like
the Bangla Cultural Squad and Mumbar's Central Troupe,
After spending time in Kolkata, Mumbai 8 Allahabad, she came to Delhi in 1956
and jorrred "Delhi Children's Theatre. ” To take care of the creative developrrrerrt
of children of every age and class, she established the children's theatre group
"Urnang" in l 979, and has since been organizing children's theatre workshops
in leading cities Throughout her life Smt. Jain remarried involved With the creation
of a healthy society by involving socrally backward children in her work and
productions She gave a new direction to children's theatre With the help of other
art forms, which not only educated children but also attracted them towards
theat re,
She mostly prepared play scripts on her own while working wrth children.
Her plays were designed so as to motivate children to express their creative
power and also to help them explore and expand their latent talent Smtlain has
produced more than lOO children's plays in India and abroad and has more than
12 published collections of children's plays to her credit Her writings on various
subjects including rrrusrc तो dance have been published in variOus magazrnes and
broadcast on AlR 8८ televrsrorr. She has been the recipient of numerous awards
including the prestigious Sangeet Natak Akademi Award; and the Sahityakar है
Kritr Sarrrrnan for her writing awarded by the Delhi Hindi Academy and the Uttar
Pradesh Government. She has also been recognized for her special contribution to
the world of children 's theatre by various reputed institutions like the Sahrtya Kala
Parishad, Delhi, Sangeet Natak Akaderrri, UP, Delhi Natya Sangh among others.

