and then a Wl’tOlE forest, fishes and birds. Finally he creates a
human and nurtures h i in but the human grews greedy, cuts dawn
the lcrrests, sets up factories, cuncrete jungles, and: creates cars that
pullute the erwirunrnerrt. The little blue planet begins to sutfcrcate
and tall sick and suddenly he is not a little boy any more but a s it it
and feeble old man . Now it is all in the hands ol the h urnans to save
or destrcrgrr the little blue planet.

About the Dlrector
Anurupa Ray is a puppeteer by profession. She has diplomas in
हुं।
bupnet theatre frcrrn the Di {Drarnatislca institute for Film, W, Drama
and Radio) at The University of Stockholm, Sweden and in Guaratelle,
t‘raclitinnal gleveapuupetru, frurn the Scuulia Della Guaratelle (School
at Traditiunal Glove puppetry) in Naples ltaly. She is a puppet
designer and performer and has directed over it full-fledged?
performances, such as Alrrrnst lWelfth Night, About Ram, Virus Ka

Tarnasha, and The Kas/rrrri'r Project, to name a few. Many oi these
:ureductinns have toured tn festivals in lndia and abroad. She is the
launder and managing trustee of the Kat katha Puppet Arts trust,
New Delhi. Anurupa has used puppetry as a ml at errrpbwerment
for women and ynuth. She is else the recipient आं many prizes.

"About the Group

Director’s Note

Kat‘katha was created in 19918 with initial support from the
‘Fbundaridn leer iUrrirrersa‘l iResprunsihility at Hillel Dalai lama to create

theatre as it is so scientific and technical. Yet today it affects our lives

its llfSt full स्या'आंख्याब्जेश्या called the OWE. We have since wer‘kerl
as a theatre greup with a repertoire जि children and adults, as

prefuundly. Our main challenge as creaters आँ theatre has been to;
present such a subject to children in a way that they feel a part of

consultants किं puppet-based WOlQC’ES and have run DUWE’t tralning

this “adult” problem. We must cheese how to treat this fragile little

prngrarnmes. The क्या repertoire includes l4 performances that range
hem Shakespearean comedy to storylines based on the Ramayana

blue planet, nut l‘rerne. The future is in our hands.

and Mahabharata, the Kashmir issue, the envirbnnient, and so an.

About the Play
The show begins with a glimpse at the creation of the universe and
of a little blue planet. This planet is unique because it has life. This
planet, Earth, in our play becomes personified as ’Earthu'. Earthu
then creates ” life " with his little hands-plants, flowers, butterflies

Climate Change is hardly a subject that makgg, जि very exciting

हैं
बै

