About the Director

About the Group
Kol‘ata's Bidhannagar Municipal School was founded 1 st July, I997
&'is managed and run by the Bidhannagar Municipality to cater to
the needs of the residents of Bidhannagar and its adjoining areas. It
is the first of its kind in the state. The school is co—educational with
both Bengali and English as mediums of instruction. The school
believes that it is important to have balanced co—curricular activities
for the all-round development of a child. In keeping with this,
students of the school are encouraged and? have opportunities to
take part in various activities like music, dance, drama, elocution, art
and games.

Karnalesh Chakraborty, a permanent teacher of Bidhannagar
Municipal School has been a close associate of People’s Little Theatre
since I 989. He has played several roles and assisted directors in
notable stage productions of the People's Little Theatre. A versatile
actor of theatre, yatra, television, and mainstream films, he has been
bestowed with many awards. He has participated in NSD’s Bharat
Rang Mahotsav many times, with plays like T/tum/r, Kshama Karbo Na
B/b/ghar, Kirat Parvo, etc.

Director’s note
' ८ f”""" About
the

Play
" In this dramatized

" . adaptation of Tara
"

Kah/nl, the boy, Tota,

३' displays an inability
to master the notes
of his private tutor.
The rigors of the
educational process
have resulted in him
having nightmares, in which he is terrorized by monstrous teachers,
visions of their mechanical teaching, the fear of failure and the taunts

of his 'successful’ classmates. The classroom has become synonymous
with a prison, and the students are indeed the inmates of this prison—

house.
_
The picture Rabindranath depicted in his story about a century
ago is still the picture of education system of modern India. The play
Marks—Em shows the real condition of present ’Totas’ who are losing
their childhood, their innocence, their dreams and so many other

things because of the extreme pressure of parental expectation. It
also exposes the lifeless education system of the modern era which
is producing human machines instead of the good and sensitive
individuals. These machines, the play says, may earn money but will
produce no goods for the future of our society.

The play Tota, revolves around children who grow up amidst the
freedom and beauty of nature. But to the ruler of the land, their way
of growing up is not useful for the economic development of the
country, and so he decides to educate them. Big schools are set up,
committees are formed and a lot of money is spent. But no one cares
for the children and their needs, and they are pushed towards an
artificial system of education. The children begin to feel burdened
and helpless with the sudden change in their way of living. When they
protest they were punished severely, as if "the wings of the birds are
cut off”. At the end of the story the caged bird is found dead, its death
symbolizing the death of childhood, and of the souls of innocent
children.

