About the Group
The Shehjaar C'Iildren Theatre Group was started by the H ,EIP.
Foundation, a IBK NCO, as a part at Its educational programme,

In 2002 From 2004 a ILII-Iledgged unit was estatilIshed
under the name of ' SneIIIaar°ChI|dren Theatre Groiip" The
group aims to Cite-IIIeawareness आरसा g children about socral

problems through५ I
I IrneeidiuII of meat:lre It alsosera: hes for
and encourages taIe It amongIIIIIdrewhirle aiInirIg to. provrde

entertainment :n a state torn by conI‘Ii ct and violence. The group
participated in'Iashn-e—Bachpan Ior the TIISI time in 2008 With
IIAunsh I Premchand’s story Ei‘d Gan (Aes Te .Karav ‘i’i'edI, and in

20IIO it itIartiopated in the National Festival at Kolkata It has also
partiprated in children’s theatre workshops oIganized by the
National School of Drama in their education programme and this

०

play Is part of the workshop held in 20I0

About Play
The play Shahie Paezaar Is based on a lok katha or folk tale of
Baghdad known as Abu Ali Ka Ioota. It revolves around the journey "

made by Abu Ali’s shoe from slavery to merchandise. In addition
to this, it also highlights many other events that take place along
the way.

About the Directors.

lVIake-up & Costume Awards for several stage plays from the I&I< "
Academy of Art Culture and Languages and other 0[दुत्रुटा[[5टा[0[[5८
present he is assocrated with H E L P Foundation’s theatre Wing a
director

Director’s Note
The children who participatedin this workshop are those whoIIaII
suffered the most in their lives due to the critical conditions of the

A graduate from NSD, Hafeez Khan IS a senior drama director, theatre,
children’s theatre and educational theatre speoalist. He has been

the founder member of NSD’s Sanskaar Rang Toli, and has directed
more than I00 plays and acted in many of them He has organized
workshops and camps for handicapped, rural and adivasi children. He
has also the receipient of several fellowships and awards.

Hakeem laveed began his career in theatre at the age of I 5 and his
first production was S. LBirapa's Kannada Play Ye janma We Janina.
The play was directed by him in 2003 and he went on to receive
the Best Actor award from the State Academy for it. He has written
several television serials, radio and stage plays; has been involved

in children's theatre; and has conducted several children's theatre
workshops. He received the Best Director, Best Actor, and Best

Kashmir valley during these years As part of the healing process I“2
needed love and affection and a little motivation to partrcrIate in
making the play based on the story of ”Abu A/i Ka juta. Based on
a folk tale Irbm Baghdad, it has been irnprowsed & developed In the
Kashmiri language by the children of the workshop

