About the Group

About the Director

Gyan Shakti Vidyalaya was set up in 2006 with the primary objective
of providing basic education to promising children deprived of basic
socio—economic needs. These children are mostly first generation
learners and migrants from Bihar. The program has been intended to
be a guiding force to take deserving children beyond the limitations of
their prevailing knowledge structures and prepare them to be better
future citizens. This can be done by providing them with basic literacy,
.
mainstreaming them

Born in 1980 in a conservative family that did not appreciate the
creative arts much, it was mainly Mr. Nadeem’s interest that took
him towards this field. As a young learner he participated in various
theatre workshops conducted by well known organizations like
Urdu Academy, NSD, etc. In 1997, he worked as a assistant director
for a summer production conducted by Urdu Academy. Over the
years he has worked for numerous theatre workshops, such as
those with mentally and physically challenged students, that gave
new dimensions to his thoughts. Later Mr. Nadeern worked for the
promotion of adult education and children’s theatre. He has directet
more than 25 plays to his name such as Bhagaz‘ Singh, Maanavta, A.

to government

schools,
progressively
providing them with

- vocational training,
and making them

Baba, Wizard of 02, Charandass Char, A'ka/ Bad/ Ya, Bada/te Parives/

etc., to name few. He is also participating in the ’Delhi Celebrates’
project during the Commonwealth Games 2010.

‘ ..° aware about
.

'- social and health

Director’s Note
३; care issues, basic

logistics and access
of amenities. The
group's main
aim is 'to ensure
their ”Integrated Social Transformation " and to enable them to
become responsible, capable and employable citizens with a sense of
pride and belonging in their community and the nation.

About the Play
This one hour play, K/roob Ladi Mardan/ is about the great freedom
fighter and warrior, Queen Laxrnibai of Jhansi. It is a well-researched
original script that includes several historical facts and characters
and important incidents related to Rani Laxrnibai, right from the very
beginning of her birth till her death while fighting with British. The
play reminds the audience about the devotion, commitment, courage
and love for the motherland that the queen had and inspires us all
to be more responsible towards our nation. The play also depicts the
shortcomings and mistakes made during the war. it includes a few
songs that provide relief during tense moments.

Working with the students of Gyan Shakti Vidhyalaya was a challeng
for me and my entire team. These children were not very skilled in
reading and writing and we had to put in a lot of work to help them
improve their diction and pronunciation. But as we proceeded with
the workshop, the children became increasingly involved, leading to
change that made the experience extremely satisfying for us.

