About the Group

About the Dlrector

With a view to presenting stage and film acting in a systematic and
scientific way to the new generation, the North East Theatre Academy

Sirnanta Phukan has been involved in theatre from an early age,

,(NETA) was established in 2006 at Dergaon, Assam. Mr. Sirnanta

Phukan, a famous theatre personality is in charge of the Academy. For
the last three years the group has organized several theatre activities
and seminars, staged plays and participated in a number of national &
international theatre festivals.

About the Play
The central characters of the play are a few illiterate teenage orphans
who live on a railway platform and earn their livelihood by doing
petty jobs. One day religious violence erupts in the town, but the unity
amongst these children remains untouched. However, they receive a
setback when the station master orders them to vacate the platform.
While they are pondering over their future, a man who they call
’Mama’ arrives. He tells them to be brave and also inspires them to
fight for their rights. The orphans of the platform must take the lead
to unite all the deprived children of the country and strive to build
a platform— the platform of real life- from where no one can forcibly
evict them and where life flourishes.

Over the years he has participated in several All-Assam one-act plcornpetitions where he has won many awards including those of
the best director and best actor. Mr. Phukan is an established sta

director and actor and has to his credit considerable work in radii.
and television. He has directed several leading groups of the Ass
Mobile Theatre. Some of the plays he has produced are Lov/ra,
Nata Surya, Bhogjora Kiga, Kanak/ata, Platform, Santras and R05
His popular video films include Kama/a Kunwari, Mon Phagunar l
and Jokar.

Director’s Note
The life struggles of a few children are depicted in P/atform. Thes.
orphans strive hard to earn their livelihood within the rules of a
civilized society but are deprived of their due. This is a play that v
depicts the reality prevailing in the society, and portrays how upp+
classes become responsible for depriving those who belong to th
lower stratas of society. Many children don't know who their fath
is, or which religion they were born into. But this is not their fault
and should not matter. If such children can enjoy some sort of 500 [
security and recognition, and if the play can make society aware aria
sensitive towards them, we will consider our endeavor rewarded. f

