About the Group

About the Dlrector

Founded in I960 by a group of young persons under the leadership
of Ajitesh Bandhopadhya, Nandikar is a theatre group that aims at
producing the best possible plays and performing them wherever and
whenever possible. During the last 50 years it has produced about
80 plays and has participated in several national and international

Actor and director, Mr. Debshankar Halder has been associate v
theatre for the last 2 I years. He has acted in many of Narndirlk
plays including those with slum children. He has directed abet

theatre festivals. Nandikar also organizes several festiVals, including
a national women's theatre festival, children's theatre festivals and
one—act youth drama festival. It also holds workshops, aims at

disseminating theatre
related information
and is involved in
several socially
relevant activities.
Nandikar, its members
believe, is not a group
'-. but an institution.

About the play
The play is about a girl Mouli who has been pulled out of
school, pestered with tuitions and practice for the ultimate
game show, 'lndian Idol'. Behind her, an inferno of peopleparents, friends, neighb-ors—competitors, all-cheer and jeer her
along her journey. But her grandfather has something different
to say. Who is an Indian Idol? Can Mouli be one? They play
shows how Mouli finally becomes the ’lndian Idol' and the many
exciting adventures she has along the way.

"८ - L

plays and participated in several national and international that

festivals. A play directed by him on and by sex workers, and ह्र'
id;

Elia/o Manusfi Nor/go Mom, won many accolades from the pie

public. Mr. Halder is also the recipient of numerous prizes.

.

Director’s Note
I have been fortunate to have a large band of young perforrar
from Nandikar’s children ensemble. These young people all‘i
mesmerizing and addictive charm of Indian Idol programme
our play Indian Idol’, these young ones discover for themssel दु
a different meaning of these two words. They came to real ize

sigi-li

in selfless service lies your salvation, and that it is only in give rt

.1 t

one receives.

'

Lire

