About; the Dlrector
५ ^ ; _ ~ has been working in the field of theatre and
३
LO' and is
संदूम्बाश्यटुड्डिम्भाआक्यों. in 2009 she established ’GlL
nt with A.
- warming as an education and training consulta

ning I
Schadi in Windhai. tier area of work includesrytrai
books and.
V त्माश्याहुतुश्या advising on sourcing of libra
'

“

दुड्ड
Unrgcliaesroom infrastructure, etc. She was also iniri

[ Wand directors Seminar organized by ASSlTEi
।० ३३३३ ५. Germany. (international Association of Theatre
mghewp‘iei in 2009 and a Theatre Pedagogy Works. है
a in Bangaiore in collaboration with the "
harm, Germany. in the past, Shaili has worked

deinator for ‘Kadambari‘s chi ldren‘s play .

directed by Prema Karanth in Bangalore. She _
hi a chiid actor along with other children in

About
the Group

क्या and costumes for Hindi and English plays

’

GlLLO, established in 2009, is an independent children's media group based
in M umba i . Our area of work ranges from education to the arts and media.
lts theatre wing has been started with the aim of producing; plays speciality
written and designed for children, with a focus on indigenous confetti and
the Indian context. Its first venture under the theatre proiect is a iiindii जी,
titled Suar Cha/a Space K0 which premiered in May 2010 at the P’iiitflel
Summertime in Mumbai. The group is currently running a Saturday Drama
Club for children and have previously conducted theatre workshops for
children. lt also proposes to reach out to teachers and parents through
theatre in education workshops as well as organise other activities that

engage children with the theatre arts. 6 l LLO has been established with
the aim of producing material and organizing activities that help children;

parents and teachers to make childhood and learning fun and enriclriingzu
learning that has a focus on knowledge, but with particular emphasis on

identity, values and of course - fun. The aim is to provide stimulation for
children to develop an interest in and to generate curiosity about the world
around them. GILLO is a brand that wants to be synonymous with media

for children. It wants to work for children in the fields of education, art and
media.

About; the play
A hilarious play about a smelly pig who travels to outer space! The actors
play a variety of characters, including aliens, with movement and dance
adding to the high-energy performance. Base-d on a puppet play originally
written by children during a workshop, the narrative follows a fuzzy logic
typical of children's writing. The story touches upon friendship, adventure

awning up to your mistakes, taking responsibility and of course the ’swine
u' i

’ '

३ W findian People's Theatre Association) pl …

aridiBangaiore, inciuding Ekjute, Arpana, Thea;
_.

and Sanket. As a teacher and educationist,
_ ..
whitewash schools and N605 in Mumbai and others , .

‘ Shiite TEST. She is preseiitiy associated with lPTA as a ii i
dagger and hdnmarry Vice President.

Duectors Note
SW हूँ . Space do has been developed through a col“
first with participants in my summer workshop for childr
actors horn my drama group. i have scripted and direct _
process diet went back and forth from script to blocking '
based on the original outline of the puppet play. Many of i
first hioiciked in mime and then dialogues were added to i
play to be understood by small children from 5 years o
want a textsheavy story. That is why we worked on the .
and then the dialogues, almost to ensure that even if a c ~

decipher some dialogues, the story shall not be lost. The acts
the script in bits and pieces and more often they were gi , V
related to the play that they had to enact using their own oreaiiiid arid
instincts. At first the actors were not sure about the process and where i
would lead them, but they kept faith and participated with an enthusiast
that has helped give the performance the energy that it requires.

