a project named ”r,
Mehireen, and Lorse Alexander; He had

About the Group
TIE International is a group which works for and with children to

e came in Limca
Development" from CR‘r’. Recently his nam

ur My Wings"
Record for writing and directing a play " Colo

provide an environment to the children themselves, their teachers

and to their parents to use theatre for purpose of education. It
does so by creating a space, both mental and physical, where all
these stakeholders in the education of our future can open up and
understand each other. This has the potential to work wonderfully
to address many complicated questions concerning this issue in
collaboration with others. It also serves as a forum for sharing the
natural curiosity that springs from deep inside. Asking questions,
seeking answers, having fun, all of this leads to increasing
concentrations, developing the co-operative spirit and of living
together, learning to accept responsibility, and to take on challenges,
to fight hard, to lead a team, to learn to speak and be heard, and
see their faith getting a boost. Till now we have done more than 10
plays, 25 workshops for teachers and two big summer workshops
. and Sunday Club. We also did Annual Day plays in many schools.

Director’s Note
ry 4
The origin of the play "All for the Soul " lies in the theo
Today's
propounds the use of theatre in education for life,

generation of students to are confronted with piles of bowl:
ge, H;
to be memorized. Theatre seems to be distant mira
not change, and memorizing it only results in achievemeri

This philosophy is a stumbling block in today‘s education

as these subjects fail in bringing about change in the 5र७८वृछ
what better way to teach apart from TIE? Keeping this ir.
Anand Niketan & Sattva Vikas School started the process’ «
a training programmed based on the struggle of 1857 wt.

only a drama but a participative play.

_

This is an endeavour to create a platform for interminig.
of ideas, opinions and fresh perspectives, re-creative, recr‘ .

Synopsis of the play
I) Actor teachers or rather facilities share the long forgotten struggle
of independence of the country which was buried and suppressed
in the past, with audience.
2) A rendezvous with a few imaginary characters.
3) It will take the audience towards a preparation for an inner and
outer transformation.

About the Dlrector
Walter Peter is the Ex-TIE Co. member of National School of Drama,

New Delhi. At present he is an Artistic Director of the TIE-Society,
New Delhi and TIE-INTERNAIONAL, Ahrnedabad, and associated with
Anand Niketan Group of Schools also a member of Nai Disha which
is an educational and cultural society in New Delhi. As an actor, he
has worked in more that 30 plays. Peter has also directed more than
50 plays developing original script is an area of special interest. He
has worked with pioneer people of Theater in Education in India like
late B.V.Karanth, Barry John, Tripurari Sharma, Abdul Latif Khatana,
Maya Rao, Faizal Alkazi, Suwarn Rawat, Vibha Chibber, Wolf Ram

our struggle for freedom. The play brings to live the journ

Changeling was very moving, had more challenges an
more likely to hold the attention of the children. Therefor
for The Changeling after a lot of deliberation, and are ha
presenting it before you today. .

