About the Group

About the Dlrector

Blank Verse has been working in the field of theatre with children
and elders coming from various walks of life. In more recent years
it has been working for and with children and has organized several
workshops and produced plays. It’s most popular play has been
Furrut, which has been widely performed. The group has the support
of social persons like doctors, professors, school—teachers, engineers,

Born in T976 in Kolkata, Raja Bhattacharya started his theatre. ,
from a rural background. A graduate with an honours in Engle
from Kolkata University, he bagged the junior scholarship frothy

cartoonists, columnists, actors, musicians, service holders etc. It has
participated in several children’s theatre festivals including NSD’s
Jashnebachpan, in many parts of theocountry. Blank Verse aims at
helping the youth believe in themselves, helping them analyze and
understand the world and its changeability, realizing creative passion,
developing awareness about our age old culture, literature, art &
philosophy, and enabling them to have a better future.

About the Play
This is a story about
Darkness—the darkness
that compels innocence to
transform into vindictiveness.‘ ८… ,‘
The main characteristic of a
society where this darkness
grows is frailty. Such a social
system tags us with labels of ,
’good' or 'bad' to nourish its
own idiosyncrasies. Nobody
can fathom the reason or
justification behind such
labeling. But gold is not
always golden and oxygen is
not the only thing we breathe.
The play is set in a fictional juvenile home where ”Juveniles in Conflict
with Law" (JCL), are trying to reveal the truth about a corrupt system.
They finally manage to come up with a host of questions that bring
to light the rnalpractices of their elders. The play ends with a plea to
change the world for the sake of humanity at large, and to make the
planet a better place to live in.

Ministn/ of Culture and Tourism, Govt. of India for 2002…200/४३3३
has performed in more than 250 stage and open-air shows i मृ
experienced in different facets of theatre, he has done design“ [
scripting, acting and direction. In addition to this, he has writr
theatre periodicals and magazines, has attended training WT!
conducted by eminent theatre persons like H. Kanhailal an

worked with directors like Bibhash Chakroborty and Usha हुं
Having a keen interest in working with and for children, Rafa
written and directed many plays for children, including Juta/
based on the poem by Rabindranath Tagore. He is currently
as a drama teacher in South Point School and with different "
in Kolkata. He has written 10 plays including Furruz‘, Kan
Pa/owan, Majanja/i Sarkal; Baji, Iqba/ ar 7. ..
Tana/mum, three short stories and few pr' ,

Dlrector’s Note है
. l began this play with the sole intention सं३ '
' a play for children. Having worked with c ..
for quite some time now, I have noticed that -३
’Children's Theatre’ is not yet fully establ. "_ ३" our erudite dramatic fraternity. The prima
.‘ ३.- for this, I suppose, is a lack of awareness

theatre with children is possible only when we
adults treat them seriously and render due respect
to a child actor. Theatre with children is no child's
play. In fact, this is a complex corridor of theatre,

as all associated with this occupation know well. Secondly, whenever
we think of 'Children’s Theatre', we think of fables, myths, allegorieS
or a theatre that contains simple comedy which the children would
love to watch. The demands of these stories are everlasting and also
educative, but they have actually held us back from communicating

many important messages to contemporary youth, perhaps because
such a play might lead our children and young people to ask their
elders too many questions.

