About the Group

About; the Dlrector

The Huyen Lalong Thangi—Ta Cultural Association is run under the

Ningombam ladurnani Singh is a well-known Manipuri rnuclr

able administration of Sangeet Natak Akademi and Padarnasihri

dance artist. He has worked with famous theatre personal”;
Ratan Th iyam and has learnt the art of acting and theatr

Awardee , Guru (3. Gourakishor Shanna. The group functions with
the objective of spreading awareness of Manipuri culture and its
martial arts throughout the world. Its artistes have visited and staged
performances in many states in India and abroad. During the 50
years of its existence the institution has attracted many students,
both from India and abroad, to receive training under the Guru. The
' group is committed towards preservation and promotion of traditional
Manip-ur art forms.

under his guidance. He has been associated with the Nova
Centre, New Delhi and Rangmandal, Bharat Bhavan, B‘hop‘
experienced artist he has been working in the field of p‘
art forms in Manipur since 1991. His work in mask-mam

About; the play
This is a story of a once happy pebet family and a cruel cat. The
female Pebet falls sick. On seeing her pitiful condition, the male
Pebet sets out looking for food. On his way back home, he’s caught
in a cat. Expecting some pity, the male Pebet narrates his sad
story and promises to return after giving food to the female Pebet.
Keeping his word, he returns to the cat only to lose his life. The
female Pebet mourns of his death. The cat now wants to prey on
the Pebet family, and starts living disguised as a saint. The female
Pebet, on the hand, also wants revenge and brings up her children
with wisdom and expertise in the martial arts of Thang-Ta and Sharit
Sharat. This folk tale from Manipur encourages chi ldren to live a
healthy and independent life.

to the field of theatre in 2008.

Director’s Note

traditional folk tales of Man ipur, to create love for the. ‘
_
from a young age. After popularizing the characters, . re rmoragec

the actors to feel the inner essence and act it out as they tperierrcer

