plundering and looting the inhabitants. Sometimes, the oppress 7 '
became united and drove away the inhuman monsters. In this pl} :
'
two monsters go away to enjoy their vacation after occupyin

destroying a well-decorated garden. The children, who were . e
original inhabitants of the garden, come back and re—decoratt.
garden. The garden becomes rich with flowers and fruits. Hoy .

the monsters come back from their vacation and reoccupy ऱट्सष्टिवृड्डा ;
after driving the children away from there. They destroy all tit;
and fruits until the garden becomes barren. When the child}.

ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
Shahidul Islam Shishir is an active member of Shabdaboli,
Theatre which stages drama every Friday. In a very short tit.

About the Group
The word globalization comes with multiple meanings for different
people. To some, it means creation of wealth for the rich people and
developed countries, and for others, it can mean changing some
systems, norms and ideologies for the people of developing countries.

expertise in theatre performances has been widely recogni
this led to him being invited to direct the productions of B
Theatre in 2009. This play, Bo/ta, directed by him has recei-

good reviews and recived the award for Best Play in the li
Drama Festival, 2010, organized by Bangladesh Shishu Atgr
Barisal.
’

In our society, due to this phenomenon, we are losing some of our

own value-systems, traditions, beliefs, cultural identities etc. How
would this change impact children who are future leaders? We are
trying to identify the issues concerning this and also trying to find out
ways to deal with them. This was the reason for forming a children’s
theatre group named Barisal Shishu Theatre. Before its formation
there was no other such group in the southern region of Bangladesh.
Barisal Shishu Theatre was launched in 28th August 2001 at Barisal.

It is the children's wing of the well-known theatre group Shabdaboli
Group Theatre, Barisal. It's motto is "Theatre for enlightening the
children. "

Director’s Note
Discussing the history of the world, we will see that a largrejpart of it is

’aggression’ and the masses always struggle against that 'श्लेहुँकूग्रड़छुष्टाशैआं
The final result of all struggles against oppressions always ends in the
victory of the oppressed. In Ora Chhi/o Baganey, the transformed plal
of Bo/ta, of Nazrna Jasmine Chowdhary, I have found the reflection
of that history. Here, the children’s garden was occupied by oppressor >
monsters. Age after age the monsters continue their destruction

and plundering. On the other hand, the oppressed children become ।
agitated. At one stage, the children unite and compel the monsters to i

ABOUT THE PLAY

leave the garden. This is similar to what happened in Bangladesh in -

For thousands of years, humans have been victimized by aggressors.

1971, and also in various other countries by freedom loving people. ,
To make this play more interesting, we had to divert a little from the r

With the development of civilization, powerful men tried to occupy
lands of others. Sometimes, they left the occupied place after

script 0f the main play, and also to rename it as Bo/t'a.

