About the Group

]

About The Director

Dr. Murtuza Railwaywala is a clinical psychologist who ha; i
practicing psychology Since 200i He started "SPAPSH" _
diagnostic & therapy clinic in September 2006, and be;e ह्र

”SPARSH" has been working as a Psycho Diagnostic & Therapy Clinic
since September 2006 ”Prayas” is an N60 which cares, educates
and trains learning-disabled children and provides them With equal
opportunities so that they can get integrated into the mainstream

With theatre in 2000 In the year 2005 he produced h .

While Sparsfitidentifies the inborn ability in a learning disabled child,

Trigger and in 2008 he attempted to produce and dim शु

Prayas makes an effort to hone this ability in a mutually supportive

BhaasAbhass The play was applauded and baggedtheI,
in the competition held by the Surat l/lunici'pal COTDjigr‘b

and collaborative context. Sparsh is headed by a clinical sychologist,
Dr. Murtuza Railwaywala, who has also been involved in theatre
and accepted directing a play on this sensitive SUbjECT. The group
regularly uses theatre as a medium to educate children, The Joy and
excitement of experimenting with theatre as a means of spreading
education has met With great success. Sparsh has also participated

best play and best direction. Adventurous by nature, 0r ३"
been involved in adventure actiVities since l 993 and ५३,.दृ

-३

mountaineering.

Director’s Note

in many national and state level drama competitions and has won a
number of DTIZES,

Direction is always a challenge and its excrtement has 7
journey. In my professional tryst With children haying

Alok likes to use discarded waste materials to invent and create

disorders, | conceived the idea of framing a drama to c
awareness amongst the society to erase misconcepti
subiect. Coincidentally l came across an N60 "Prayas'
a remedial center for learning disabled children in Sir 1
our regular interactions on this subiect, we realized tl.
on this could bean eye opener for sooety After having३
our thoughts it took me nearly ten months, interacting८
and children, to know the intricacies of their suffererrigs ta‘i

something technologically useful, while Aakash’s interest lies in

attempted to portray in this Hindi drama, Ek BaatArikan-v'

Synopsis Of the play
The story revolves around the attitude of two families towards their
children, Alok and Aakash, who, unknown to their parents, are

suffering from learning disability. Even though they are creative and
innovative by nature, the two children are poor scholastic performers.

muSic. However, they are misfits in their school. The play looks at
how, with the help of child psychologist Dr. Abhimanyu
Parekh, they receive understanding and support; at

the different reactions of their families, at how Alok
unknowingly falls into bad company and invents a
weapon that is used for a wrong purpose; and at how all

these loose ends get tied up finally.

.. -

