About the Group
Bodhir Bidya Bhaban is a training institute for children with
speech and auditory difficulties. The school was started in 1988 in
Bhadrakali, Ho-oghly, WB with only 25 students. The main aim of this
school is to teach these children how to speak and understand each
other’s speech through a multi—sensory approach. The curriculum
includes both normal education in the literary section upto the

ildren‘s plays in Mam-I p
the years, he has directed a number of ch
, है है r
Theatre-inEducation project, including Badal Sarkar’s Beeg
y
am,an
also
is
He
es.
culti
drama for children with hearing diffi

lights-designer as well as trainer for many Nandikar program
Apart from having received scholarships and fellowships not
participated: in several workshops, seminars, and festivals in ,

Oman, China and Kuwait. He has also performed his playsji
1

Jasl'mebachpan in 2006 and 2008.

seventh standard, and vocational training like tailoring, drawing,

leather goods manufacturing, book binding, woolen knitting
and computer training. In 2007 the school started a Theatre—inEducation programme. In the same year, Nandikar, a repute-d theatre
organization in Kolkata helped to teach these special children how
to perform mime theatre. it has already performed Aban/ra Ker/non
Thake at many places under a project named "Silent Theatre"
spearheaded by Susanta Mondal. The newest production Gung Chi/l

Director‘s Note

was staged at Rarngopal Mancha, Howrah, Ganabhaban, Hooghly,

who belong to the underprivileged and backward sec
have never been to the zoo, or to the park in their ow
when they perform on the stage with Nandikar and w
preparing to perform under the aegis of N S D to be a
ch ildren’s theatre festival, they feel enthralled and empoi
are now part of the social mainstream. Even though i 3 .
working with children’s theatre for almost ten years n ,
never felt this kind of professional satisfaction and full ' '

Sishu Kishore Acadermy , Kolkata and Burdwan. The students of this
school have taken extensive vocational training, and are working in
various organizations. At present, the school has 87 students.

About the play
This production of Gong (hill is inspired by Richard Bach’s Jonathan
Livingstone Seagu//, which is the journey of a seagull who does not
fly for food but for the art of flying. In his quest to be different from
others, he is rejected by the society he belongs to, by his parents,
his friends and almost everyone. All because he is different from
the rest. But he does not give up hope, and keeps trying repeatedly
until he is able to defy the law of gravitation. His levity takes him to
another plane where he questions and ponders over the existence of
heaven. Finally he understands greater truths and a fulfilled Jonathan
becomes a trendsetter, teaching his skills to the new gulls.

About the Director
A graduate in Science, Susanta Mandal has been involved in the
field of theatre for over a decade. His comprehensive training in the
performing arts includes training in mime and movement, the chhau

dance, martial arts, classical vocal music and shadow puppetry. Over

When I first started working with these children, l had not“ i"
पं

how it would change my life. it was born out of a will to do
something that would bring some positive changes to t‘iiei'i

But now, when i see the changes that these special ct ' ‘ ३

undergone, | feel that my life‘s mission is fulfilled. These

'

