About the Group

About the Director

The Theatre-in-Education Company (Sanskaar Rang Toli) of the
National School of Drama was established on October 16, 1989.
It is one of the most important educational resource centres in the
country and consists of a group of actor-teachers performing with
and for children. The major focus of the company is to perform
creative, curriculum-based and participatory plays in School, designed
and prepared for children of different age groups. The Toli organizes
theatre festivals and has undertaken extensive tours in collaboration
with various departments and institutions such as Max Mueller

Born (1956) and brought up in a traditional Yakshagana familj,
K.G. Krishnamurthy hails from Heggodu in Karnataka. He startr
his theatre career as a child artist in 1969, with the play Panjal.
Shale, directed by the Late Sri B.V. Karanth. Since then he has" f

been associated with K.V. Subbanna’s Ninasarn at Heggodu. "i
completing his graduation from NSD in 1984, he worked in Ni;

Repertory as an actor and also as a teacher in the Ninasarn Scht

Bhawan (Delhi), Padatik (Kolkata), Department of Culture (U. P.), Voice

Box (U.K.), Language Alive (U.K.), Sarnadhan (NGO, Delhi), Japan
Foundation, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Sarniti, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya
Sarniti, Bawana Women's College, Jesus and Mary College, Aaroh,
Delhi & Srirnanta Shankaradeva Kalakshetra Society, Guwahati. It has
conducted a theatre workshop for teachers at Muscat (Oman). The
company also organizes its two theatre festivals, Jashnebachpan &
Bal Sangarn, for children on an annual basis.

language for visual communication. Recipient of the Karnataka
Nataka Akaderni Award and Sandesha Award, Mr. Krishnarnu tlw
has also acted in Girish Kasaravalli’s latest film Gu/ab/ Talk/esp;

Director’s note

About the play

initially l was inspired to do two plays-—0ne Cool Cat, an प्रीउदूवृश्चिड़ेहुँ
play by John willet and The Changeling, a Swedish play by Goran

The play The Changeling is based on a charming and inventive fairy
tale that is magical and fantastic, with just a hint of horror and
serves a moral reflection. The play takes place in a world inhabited
by hard-working, simple farm folk and mischievous, perhaps even
malicious trolls. As a troll mother croons to her baby deep in the
woods, she hears the approach of humans on a horse. She hides
behind a tree to watch the bothersome interlopers from a safe
distance. But curiosity gets the better of her, and when
.

Turnstorrn. The team read both and improvised on few scenes fr

she sticks her head out to see the farmer and his wife, she , ‘ - '

scares the horses who bolt and flee in fright. The farrner’s ¸
wife is jolted and drops her angelic infant on the ground.
By the time the farmer slows the horse and returns to
find the lost baby, it is gone, and in its place is left a troll
baby. The farrner’s wife must decide whether to sacrifice
everything to raise a baby whom only she can love. As the .
plot develops, we are left with the lesson that a mother is a
mother whether she it is to a troll child or human child.

both the plays. We also narrated the stories to the children wh
happened to be there for NSD’s Sunday Club activities. Finally,
decided that the play One Cool Cat was well structured and eas}
produce. On the other hand, The Changeling was very moving, ha)

‘

more challenges and was also more likely to hold the attention ofitjlie
- ' ~
३ ३
children. Therefore, ३
we settled for The

4

Changeling after a
lot of deliberation,
and are happy to be
'_ presenting it before
you today.

