A foreword
Waman Ji directed one play named "Jhulwa" which has one character who is called as "Jogta" in
Maharashtra. This play had a tremendous impact on the audience and was praised by audience
and critics alike. But the problem was that every critic took the character of Jogta as eunuch or
”Hijra" in their analytical notes and Warnanji obviously was not happy with this development. It is
true that the characters of Jogta and eunuch do resemble a lot in their outfits, but they are two
separate individuals with their respective states of mind. For many days, Warnanji and I kept on
discussing the difference between jogta, and a eunuch.
Warnanji himself being a very sensitive and socially aware person is always looking toward for
those issues which are seldom talked about. The play Jhulwa is one fine example of his efforts.
The community of eunuchs living in their isolated world with their unheard pain and agonies often
troubled Warnanji. As a socially responsible artist it was but natural that he was motivated to
bring out to the public the harsh realities and sufferings of this community. I was involved with
Jhulwa the play and used to sing in that production. Besides I had also done the adaptation of
Sarweshwar Dayal Saxena's play "Bakri" in Marathi which was immensely liked by the audience
and readers alike including Warnanji. Keeping in view my newly explored talent in the area of
writing, one fine day Warnanji suggested me to write one full length play on the community of
eunuchs. This is when we started working together on this project.
When we started we had no idea, what could be the possible outline of the play based on such a
life, what language should be chosen and what should be the thematic content. The subject was
new, complex and very challenging, as we were trying to probe an entirely different world, far
beyond our reach. Finally I got convinced enough and started going deeper into the heart and
soul of the matter. To unfold the many layers of their unknown existence became the ojbective of
my life. I did a lot of research work and interacted with thousands of eunuchs at the various traffic
signals of Murnbai city. All my efforts were concentrated in gathering as much authentic information
as possible regarding the myths, rituals & historical context associated with the community. Besides
this we also tried to gather information about their goddesses, ways of worshipping, their temples,
their lifestyles, language and the psychology behind their ultimate desire to achieve the feminine
body and spirit and many other intimate details of their life. I kept on exploring the world of
eunuch continuously for two years.
During this period I faced a lot of obstacles and tried to resolve them. Many a times the difficulties
grew to monstrous proportions to an extent that I felt demoralized enough to withdraw myself and
take a silent retreat. But some how I managed to gather myself again and went on with the
mission of my life.

The writer is the one who eventually evolves a play. 80 left with little choice, I had to fight my own
battle. As far as the language of the play is concerned, after struggling a lot, I came to the
conclusion that Hindi can be the only apt language that could be used in writing this play. Since
I belong to Maharashtra and Marathi being my mother tongue there was a natural inclination to
write this play in Marathi. But I could not achieve the desired flavour of this play through Marathi.
I often used Hindi to communicate with most of the eunuchs that I encountered during my research
period and this was the reason that the first possible dialogues of this play kept echoing in my
ears in Hindi only. Soon, I was convinced enough to use Hindi and was confident that it will do
justice to the spirit of the play. One thing which I would like to mention is that eunuchs do not like
to interact with men in isolation but if accompanied by a female companion they are more
comfortable and co-operative. My wife Nanda proved to be a big help in all my interactions. After
encountering innumerable eunuchs l was sure of the fact that most eunuchs are made into what
they are and are forced to live a life imposed upon them by their circumstances.

