Every eunuch had a distinct story to tell as a separate individual and that
became the content of
my play.
l first shared the outline of this play with one of my dear friends Raja Abole
Ji who was hospitalized
and undergoing treatment for Cancer. On hearing it, for a moment he
forgot all his pains and
there was no end to his enthusiasm and he sat up on his bed in exciteme
nt. । was oven/vhelmed

by my friend's response and this gave me further confidence to share the outline
with Wamanji.
Both Wamanji and Gouri Kendre appreciated it and encouraged me in
transforming the outline

into a full length play.
You need to have a great deal of patience if you are working with Wamanji. This I realized
during
the scripting of the play Janemann. । had to keep in check my excitement till the last bits
of the
play got scripted. l was going through the process of writing and re-writing. what I had done
on
my part for the scripting of this play has certainly further widened my mental horizon regarding
my understanding of the director's point of view for a particular play and this has definitely enriched
my writing skills.
I wrote seven drafts of this play. Many prominent figures from literature and art world like
Naseeruddin Shah, Kamlakar Sontakke, Shanta Gokhale, Latafat Husain kazi, Avinash Narker,
Vishwas Patil, Vijay Raj, Mukta Rajyadhyaksh, NSD Repertory Chief Suresh Sharma and many
others appreciated the play.

What more pleasure & satisfaction can I ask for when it is going to be performed by the artists of
the N.S.D. Repertory Company today.
I am grateful to the Eunuch Community who shared the intimate details of their life with me. । am
also thankful to the Ex-minister of Maharashtra Cultural Deptt. Sh. Prarnod Navalkar whose
invaluable research notes on the community proved to be of great help in the scripteing of the
p । ay.
। have attempted to explore the many myths and facts related with the community, which are

rarely discussed or contemplated by the rest of the society. How much I have succeeded or failed
in my efforts, it is for the audience to decide after watching Janemann.
Thank you
Machhindra More
24 . 1 0 . 2002

