Director
Waman Kendre was born on 17th January 1957 in Beed district of
Maharashtra. After completing B.A. he did post gradudation from
National School of Drama, in Dramatic Arts in 1982. From 1982 to
1984 he was engaged in two years of practical research on the
folk theatre of Kerala under a N.S.D. Fellowship. For nine years
he was associated with the Theatre Development Centre NCPA
Mumbai as a Research Associate. Till date he has directed more
than fifty plays in Hindi, English and Marathi. He has dominated
both main stream and parallel Marathi Theatre world with his
innovative and meaningful theatrical productions. He is always in

Waman Kendre

search of new subjects and forms in his productions. He is sensitive
towards social, cultural and political issues of the country and has
tried to provide a platform for city theatre culture through his plays,
besides highlighting the sufferings of neglected and ignored
sections of the society which are rarely thought or talked about.
This is the reason why he is considered as one of the eminent and
successful directors of the country today. His important productions
include Manoj Mitra's Raj Darshan, Vasant Sabnis's Sainya Bhaye
Kotwal and Ternpt me not, Uttam Tupe's Zulwa, Haribhau
Vadagaonkar's Gadhe Ki Baraat, P.L. Deshpande's Ek
Zunjwaryashi, Teen Paishacha Tamasha & Ti Fhulrani, Satish
Alekar's Dusara Samana, Jaywant Dalvi's Natigoti, Harishankar
Parsai's (Adpt. Abhiram Bhadkamkar) Ladi Najariya, Asgar
Wajahat's (Adpt. Shafat Khan) Rahile Door, Ghar Maze. Ratnakar
Matkar's Char Divas Premache, Abhiram Bhadkamkar's Prempatra,
Vishwas Patil's Ranagan.

He has conducted more than 100 theatre workshops for actors
and directors all over India, besides conducting a workshop with
N.S.D. students on folk theatre performing techniques and its use
for evolving new theatre language. He has also conducted training
porgrarnme on 'Use of Theatre' for disabled childrens, college &
school teachers, Industry managers supervisors and workers.

He has worked under eminent theatre personalities like Fritz
Benewitz, John Cleark, Leon Augusta, Cecily Berry, P.L.
Deshpande, B.V. Karanth, Dr. Ashok Ranade, B.M. Shah, Kamlaka
r
Sontakke, Darnu Kenkare, Barry John, Amal Allana, G.
Shankar
Pillai, Satish Alekar, Bhanu Athaiya, M.K.Raina, Rudrapr
asad

Sengupta, Nissar Allana & Peter Brook.

In his professonal career in theatre he has been honour
ed by
numerous awards like:
Maharashtra State Government Professional Drama Compet
ition
for the years 1989, 1996 & 1998.

