D i recto r i a |
For me, theatre is not just a means of entertainment. It is true that entertainment is an inherent
part of any art form including theatre. But in my understanding and analysis it must have the
capacity to go beyond the realm of mere entertainment and should lead the audience through an
experience never felt before in their life, thereby creating an emotional bond between the charateres
and audience. This is the reason why I try to have a distinct subject with distinct human situations
with their respective world of emotions in all my plays.
Any subject which has not been touched or introduced by any of the art forms becomes my area
of explorations. | derive my source of energy from the many and varied aspects of human existence
and try to assimilate them in my plays. I have always tried to avoid readyrnade plays. My effort
has always been to evolve a play alongwith the playwright. Many of my popular and successful
plays have been the result of this creative exchange of thoughts and views between a Director
and a Writer. Janemann is one of them.
I can very well understand the amount of inconvenience my dear playwright Machhindra More
might have gone through in the last four years in evolving the script of the play alongwith me.
There were numerous points of conflicts between me and him regarding the weaving of the
background and psychology of the various characters of the play.
For the past five- six years I was time and again invited by the Repertory but because of my
engagements l was not able to make any commitment. | feel highly obliged on accepting the
proposal offered to me by Sh. D.R. Ankur, Sh. A.N. Roy Registrar, and N.S.D. Rep Chief Suresh

Sharma to direct a play for the Repertory. So I am here with all my humility with the whole of
Rep.Co. artists, musicians, costume designer Bhanu Athaiya ji, light designer Suresh Bhardwaj,
rnusio director Sh. Kajal Ghosh, makeup designer Sh. Sudhir Kulkarni and my assistant director
Souti Chakraborty, to present the play Janemann.
Thank you
Waman Kendre
2 5 - 1 0-2 002

