National School of Drama Repertory Company
Business Manager Ram kishan
Stage Manager Parag Sarrnah
Sound Technician S.N. Das Gupta
Music Incharge Om Prakash
Costume Incharge Gursharan Kaur
Workshop Incharge Abdul Hakim
Box Office Incharge S.P. Sharrna
Neelam Kapoor
S. R. Yadav
T.R. Bhatt
Prithvi Singh Negi
Repertory Chief Suresh Sharma

National School of Drama Repertory was formed
in 4964-65 on an experimental basis by Shri E.
Alkazi. In the beginning, it consisted of only four
actors. It later expanded into a larger group of
actors, musicians and technicians, mainly drawn
from graduates of the National School of Drama,
Delhi. In 1964 late Shri Om Shivpuri led the
company and later in 1977, Shri Manohar Singh
became the first regular Chief of Repertory. When
Manohar Singh left the Repertory Company in
1985, for a short period Ms. Uttara Baokar and
Ms. Surekha Sikri looked after the functioning of
the company. Later Shri J.N. Kaushal officiated
as the chief till 1988. From 1989 to 1994 Prof.
Ram Gopal Bajaj was handling the company. From
1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal was again functioning as
acting Chief. From 1999 N.S.D. graduate Sh.
Suresh Sharma appointed as permanent chief of
the Repertory Company.

Director N SD Prof. D.R. Ankur
Over the years the Repertory has produced a
variety of plays ranging from stylised musicals to
realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to
translations and adaptations of foreign languages
plays. Eminent directors of national and
international repute from within the country and
abroad have worked with the company.
Repertory has performed over hundred and thirty
five plays by eighty five playwrights and has
worked with sixty directors. Quite a few of the
actors of the company have emerged, over the
years, as celebrities in theatre, cinema and
television in India. The Repertory tours extensively
all over India and has made several successful
trips of Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and
Mauritius.
The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh,
in 1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary
through a major festival of his plays.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of
photographs, set models, costumes, properties
posters etc. of Repertory productions was
inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the Silver
jubilee celebration of the Company.

