‘oitiedy has n

hi:

i

Amitabha Pathak’s recent release
of a Tapan Sinha blockbuster
offers a mix of comedy in driving
home the need to conserve
greener and the bond with nature,
‘ writes anit mukerjea
l THE phenomenal theatrical sum-$5 of Manoj Mum's (tlmit‘
drama,Sa/rmo Began was whatprobably spurred ten-ran lihnmnk‘
1 er'lhpan Sinha tomalte liantlabammerlingo" lxtclt in 198l, \thith
i tude out to be popular blockbuster. 'lhlrtyliu: ytars down the
दु line.ygung direttor Antitahha l‘athak's bani arm has been to do a
takeo on the theme of Sinha'sclassic film with Bunt'hba ﬁlo
‘ PMII’. which could be deemed old wine in a new bottle.
‘
Pathalr's ﬁlm is an attempt to expand and explore the potential
of the corneth' gt:an In its ptntmyal oflantlshnrlo out to dupe snnpic folio in the run] segment oftheir property rights. Aside [tom
the nostalgic sweep oldie Sinha ﬂhn still beingfresh in 1110 public
memory, the echoes ofa burning issue — visa-its the wrongful
ursutpatlon of lartnets' property In Singur and Nandigtarn in 200708— is mother moot point that revolves round the construction of
the 'lhta fanoty at the time and the subsequent future that led to
the left Front‘s removal front powu
itwas perhaps this political situation that proved to be the mi
sond‘elm behind the making ofBarIdaba EIo Pbire, whidt
released on 21 October in36 commercial lhmtrcs in and around .»

Kollrata and thesuburbs, What was instnunental intriggering
Pathalt's inspiration inmalt'lngBawbba Iz‘IaPblre after more than
three decades was the merit to whith the global dimension of
erniromnental pollution hasreached through deforestation. This

वृ' ५ . 'हैं fl

.. . ५ ७था९त् ३

demolition ofsurrounding greenery to make way for newtownships in rural. and urban areas the world over has proven to be
क्या

It
.
' क्या this maria, i felt it compulsory to make a ﬁlm on the

environmental(द्रामिहुणाय1 of greenery that will create alevel of

३ 'public marches among each and everymember of the audi or.
This क्या communlation‘is ﬁdlltarcd dnough the vehicle outncdy, an art formthat (ould‘eastly readt out to all and mndry,” says
' Pathak
Although he admits that all credit for the conxpt ofthe film
दृ belongs squarelyto its btar‘ndiild. Anlndya Scngupiz, who doubles
asthe producer iointlywith Soumen Multherioe and Toton Dm,
under the banner olAkma Entertairunent lJJ’. the story idol is
. interwoveninto the script artd given the desired substance ofrhc
ग्नू wmedygenre tluuugb the screenplay by Nilanlan Talultdar.
3
With Prthak having done the script the scemrlo ofBaucblm
हूँ lilo Platte focuses on Debipur a remoteVillage in Berth that, all of
दु a sudden, becomes the centre of attraction beatuse ofa proposed
हुं national highway in the vicinity. The place is soon populated by
,' several strange newﬁre: dubbed “landshade”, akapromoters.

begin toappropriate and devourvast fertileagriurlmral land,
हैं playgrounds. ponds and even rtsldentlal quarters in the blink ofan
1, eye, in the process reducing the rural beauty and culture of
chipur to a concretejungle.
1
Ban
'5 mlक्या strut: is lowed justbeside fthe pro
३ posed national highway. so itbecomes the prime target 0 pmmol‘ क्या. Guncswar, Banchha'sdiabolical grandson, in connivance with
another eviland devioth promoter Jhunlhunwala umpires to sell
, ‘ this beautiful garthm that his grandfather cherishrs more than his
३ life. 'lhusbegins the श्या between lhndthaantthunjhunmla
‘
Playwright. theatre and ﬁlm actorMano] Mitt-a, who we “ell
ensconced in the role ofthe erstwhile Banchbarant in 'lhpan
Slnhn‘s 198] version, is now replared by Pratleilhattadtatya. also
a than: and ﬁlm personality in hisown right. liegin: :ut प्याध्या
4 log
as the cantankerous, tomital old nun and. plugदृ lng m the tnliot promos, may at times give his pruiuwor a
l run forhis money.
I
The supporting cast includt: Dipanlw lie. Marlhabltl
Mukherjtr, Pallabl Chant-rite. Paran Bandoprdhyzty. iiaby
Chakmborty, Mausuml Bhartacharya. Sumit
and ltainain
[>qu as the evil protnotu. Must oldielotzuiun shooting took
l Elba: at Nepalyni, Wm Kankurgachl and Nimula Adwadhyn
‘

Bclng his maiden vehicle as a feature filmmaker, Padtak has

i honed much ofhis skills doing57 ad ﬁlms and working as an ८७1७
I i 12m in more than 17ﬁlms atother renowned ltrllywtxxl directors.
j lie is Conﬁdent that Banclalta filo Pblm will be sutxwhtl.
from itbeing a comedy with the touch ofslapstick he feels itwill
r, convey a strongmesagc for the pmnatlon nlywnery andthe
a strong bond between humankind and nature.
1
Talklngabout his nun lllrn prult'cl he says, “LikeBandtlurant.
८ tn next ﬁlm hopes to be an urn-ruler) (Ilunulhﬂ' (unruly triplet,
Ll ntislng in lienpll din-nu timeday: lhrttugh Bane [M
lilo I’blre, I wish to limpmy audience in stitrha with laryn- down
j of humour that should never utusc brain tumour,thenby lit-em;
- the doctor away. " he concludes.
J' v

