The Play
Lakhi is a gypsy. He has an angel-

Adi Manch, Ambala, Haryana

Dir Avtar S ah n i

like wife, Banjari who loves and respects

animals. But Lakhi is a believer in the superiority of man. This difference of attitude
develops into a bitter conflict.

An ape-like man sees Lakhi assault
his wife. and tries to attack him. Banjari gestures to the ape-like nam not to harm Lakhi.
Thus Lakhi is saved from his clutches. He
runs away leaving his wife behind. The apelike man is able to understand the gestures
a little bit but not the human language.
A Shepard informs that this ape-like
man was found as a child near the wolves

i
/

As the days go by he is transformed
into a cheerful and intelligent man. The barber informs the king that the Vanmanush is
his lost son. The king comes and takes Vanmanush back to his kingdom along with Banjari, and crowns him as the king.
Absolute power makes the new king
corrupt, lecherous and merciless. He also
forgets Banjari's love for him and insults her
constantly. Banjari pins her hope on the
child in her womb.

den twenty-two years ago. Since then he
has been brought up with the flock of sheep.

Director’s Note

U LJ H A N (Hindi

Banjari would not leave Vanmanush
to the shepherd. Instead she asks him to
send a barber next morning. The barber
does his job and Vanmanush emerges out
as a handsome young man.

Sense of exploration is one of the
srtongest urges the man has. Given to indulgence he forgets the nature that nurtured
him, fondled him. He ignores nature out of

his own ignorance.

The Director
Avtar Sahni. a NSD graduate, has
directed about 20 plays. 'Malbe ka Malik'.
'Hayavadana'. 'At the Exit', 'Bakri' are a few
of them.

A participant in Festival of India in
USSR. Sahni has conducted workshops on
folk traditional theatre at many places.

Man has come out of the womb of nature. Nature watches him grow. But his
desire to rearch perfection leads him away
from her. Still nature cannot stop loving him
and tries to bring him back to her lap. Nature repeats the process all over again by
recreating him in order to nurture something.

Sahni is a lighting expert too. He has
participated in international theatre festivals
in Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Dublin, Mexico,
Equador, Columbia. Cuba and Peru with

Chorus repertory Theatre. lrnphal.

