Director’s Note

On Stage

_.__——

The play operates on twol levels; one. the mundane
world of living beings and the other. the mythicised world

JO URNA L IS T

: M. Akshaykumar

KA N GLA 8HAA

: L.Bikram, Ch. Singhaljit,
B o ro p ao Kams on

of Kangla Shaa and Keithel Lairernbi.
Keithel Lairembi is the goddess who protects every
market. The lion-like unicorn mythical hero Kangla Shaa is
the symbol of justice and fair play. However, behind this
symbol men in power indulge in many criminal acts defying the rule of law. A mother who has lost her son during
the recent insurgency narrates that the lion figures come
alive, assuming an unexpected role with hideous proportions of suppression and brutality.

WOMEN VENDORS : Bimola Chanu,
A. Thaballei Chanu,
A. Memcha Chanu.
G. Shanti Chanu,
l. Sushila Chanu.
Kh. Usharani Chanu,
L. Bina Chanu

A DM/N/S TFiA TOFiS : A. Nabachandra, Ch. Chaoba.
The Kangla Shaa needs to be exorcised from the
devil possessing it. Saving Kangla Shaa would mean
saving a healthy tradition and saving the identity of I ma
Ke ith el .

P h . N ata raj

EVIL FORCES &
PUBLIC

After a prolonged vigil, the women emerge triumphant. The evil that had crept into the protective system is
exercised. Equilibrium returns, but the struggle continues,
for the disturbance might occur again.

: T. Surendra, W. lbochoubi,
: W. Surchand, N. Priyokumar,
Ng.Amubi, L. Gyaneswor,

A. Nabachandra. Ph. Nataraj
Ch. Chaoba

The Director

Off Stage

Dr.Nongthombam Premchand did his Ph. D from
Manipur University on the 'Performative Dynamics of the
Traditional manipuri Theatre'. Presently he is undertaking
a research project on theatre titled ’Ethno-Dramaturgy‘
under the Ford Foundation. A teacher of English Literature. Premchand has published many reviewes, articles

8CRIPT

: N. Mohendra and N. Premchand

8 TA GE

: L.Gyaneswor

L lGH T

: M. Akshaykumar

MUSIC

: L. Jadumani

and has presented papers on theatre, folklore and other

COS TUMES

: R. K . R at an

subjects in national and international seminars.

