£@__-QJ_'-_13.MII.___
‘Asmita' stands committed to aesthetically innovatwe and sociaEFy relevant theatre

It

takes up contemporary issues to underline the contours of our time while providing

the best of entertainment. So far the group has staged Bhishrns Sahi'ii's "i—lanoosh"(2c’i
shows), Albert Carnus' Caligula' (2| shows), Raghuvir Cliaudhary's 'Sikandra
Sani (one for Urdu Academy Festival - 93 ), Dr. Girish Karnad's "Tughlaq' l7
shows), 'Rakt - Kalyan' (36 shows), Dr. Dharamvir Bharti's 'Andhayug' (9 shows).
Brecht's Exception & the Rule (street play) Shakespeare's
julius Caeser‘ its
shows)& Merchant of Venice (as 'Dilfarosh' for Urdu Academy's festival '96
),
Eugene O'Neil's ' Desire under the Elms (l4 shows), Swadesh Deepak's Court Martial (50 shows), Narendra Mohan's Qalander (Urdu Academy’s Festival I 997),
Dario Fo's Operation Three Star i716 shows) Mahesh Dattani's Final Solutions
(22 shows) and Ashok LaI's Ek Mamooli Aadmi (22 shows) Swadesh Deepak
's
Sabse Udaas Kavita (6 shows). ShakeSpeare's ")ulius Caesar" (2 shows).
All under the direction of Aravind gaur.

In support of people's struggle against victimisation, "ASMITA" gave street के
shows of
Safdar Hashmi's Aurat (36 ' times) and Chicago I 886 (76 times), Sanjha
jahan (2 I
shows) and Tasveer (I 7 shows).
..

As an umbrella organisation to healthy theatre activities, . SIVIITA“ organi
sed workshops
and productions at different colleges in Delhi such as Lady Shri
Ram College
(Brecht's 'Causcasian Chalk Circle'), at lndraprastha College
(Br-echt's The
Good Person of Setzuan); Bhisharn Sa'nni's Madhavi at Gargi
College (Bhishma
Shani's 'Madhavi'), Jawahar Lal Nehru University (Madhavi) at Schoo
l of Planning &
Architecture (Dario Fo's Accidental Death of an Anarchist) The, group
organised
the solo performance of Piyush Mishra, which enthralled the
audience at Jaipur and
Calcutta.
II

In its endeavour to encourage active interaction between the theat
re community and
theatre lovers, Asrnita has organised seminars with theat
re personalities Iil-te Habib

Tanvir and Mehesh ‘Dattani and recently a playreading sessi
on with (SP. [Feshpande
Recently, ASMITA staged "Brecht-98" - a recitation of Brech
t's pitierxis by ASMITA
members.

In recognition of its endeavours, the group has been
invited to perform "Court
Martial" as the only entry in Hindi at National Drama
Festival at Calitut ((erala).
"ASMITA" has also performed
"Chayanika" in Dibrugarh (Assam) and jammu &
Kashmir, 'Final Solutions' and "ER Mamooli Admi" in Jabal
pur (Vevecnaaa National
Festival) and "Operation Three Star" in Begu Sarai
. "Final Solutions" was
performed at the Scindia School, Gwalior and in the Dram
a Festival organised in
Gwalior (in memory of late BM. Shah, the noted theat
i e director). Recently. in
August I 998, ASMITA was invited as the lone Hindi entry
, to perform "jtalius Caesar"
at Dibruagarh for the National Shakespeare Festi
val organised by "'IZnay-m.ka"
theatre grou

p and at Sibsagar (Assam) by ONGC. In December
‘9‘38, ASI’IIT.‘ was
invited to perform "Ek Marnooli Admi" at the
famed Nandikar International
Theatre Festival in CaICUtta and Kalyani and also
at Jabalpur and Lucknow.
Contacts : 21 1 6 5 54 , 3510940. (3 8 5 94 O 9, 6180505
Email : a sm it a 9 2कुंकु] 0 Im a iI . ber n

