Foreword

Advent of spring-time sees the Capital bedecked with flowers of all hues and shapes. With
this enchanting backdrop comes Sahitya Kala Parishad’s "Yuva Mahotsava” (Youth Festival),
spanning over a major part of the month of February each year, making Delhi ‘a mansion of
sweet sounds and harmonies'. The Mahotsava epitomises a veritable surge of the creativity of
Delhi’s Youth in all the diverse fields of the performing and the visual arts. This spurt of youth
force in creative realms, that was manifest for the first time in the International Year of the
Youth in 1985, has since been a permanent part of Delhi’s cultural scenario. It is now for the
eighth year in succession that the Mahotsava is being put up. With each passing year it has
gained in strength and popularity and is today the biggest youth event not only of Delhi but
also of the country.
A
Each year it throws up fresh and new young talents of the Capital in the fields of music,
dance, drama and fine arts. Talents of diverse disciplines, hues, formats, and styles are brought
under one roof, thus bringing forth the string of unity running through diversity, binding it into
the common fold of lndian-ness. Hundreds of young faces, new artists are provided each year,
by the Parishad the precious facilities of a modern stage equipped with the necessary light and
sound systems, presentation grants and copious publicity through national media. The Mahotsava
thus provisdes a golden opportunity to the young to show their paces and prove their mettle
before the Capital‘s connoisseurs and art lovers. While the evenings resound with the music, dance
and drama performances, the Mahotsava premises are a splash of colour and artistic forms in
the “YUVA KALA PRADARSHINI”, “KALA MELA” & the “KALA SHIVIRS” (Artists' Camp), which
remain open all through the day.
It is a matter of pride for the Capital and particularly the Parishad that the First Lady of
the country, Smt. Virnala Sharma, is inaugurating the Mahotsava, keeping up a 4 year long
tradition of the First Lady of the country inaugurating it successively.

The Parishad is fully aware of the full-backing and motivation provided by its Chairman and
Chief Secretary, Shri R. K. Takkar, but for which such a mammoth project could not have been
consummated.
Our grateful thanks go, in no small measure, to the participating artists, art lovers, connoisseurs
and the Delhites, whose encouraging response has been our inspiration in this task.
80, on with this show, the biggest of‘and for the talented youth of Delhi. Give them a
big hand so that they prove to be precious assets in making Delhi the cultural Capital of the
country--our avowed objective.
S u rend ra M at h u r

Secretary

