MADHUMITA BHATTACHARYA
(Chhau)

Sat. 2 0th Feb.

Madhurnita, a graduate in Arts from
University of Calcutta, holds a Master’s

NAR ES H KU MA R
(Creative Dance)
Naresh has been a student of Shri
Narendra Sharma and has been working
for last six years and is a Senior Artist
of Bhoornika Creative Dance Centre. He
is also Senior Assistant of Shri Narendra
Sharma. He joined a three week workshop
conducted by the American Dance Festival
(A.D.F.) Faculty in Delhi in December
4990- He has learnt Mayurbhanj Chhau
and Creative Dance from Shri Bharat
Sharma. He has also learnt the same
dance from Shri Ram Bharatiya Kala
Kendra Guru Shri Aloek Niranjan Bishoi.
He has also been learning music from
Maitreyi Majurndar. He has also done his
Choreographic work at Sri Ram Centre in
December, 1992.
As a member of Bhoornika, Naresh
participated in Shanti Parv, the closing
event of festival of India, in U.SSR. at

Moscow in 1988 and the International
Modern Dance Festival in West Germany
in 1990.
Naresh, who has worked for Natya
Ballet Centre for one year, wishes to work

and devote himself in the field of
contemporary Indian Dance.
He performs this evening from the
SKP platform in 8th Yuva Mahotsava.

Degree in Odissi Dance from Rabindra
Bharati University of Calcutta. She has
attained Degree in Sangeet Bisarad
(Kathak Dance) and Sangeet Bivakar
(Folk Dance) from Sarba Bharatiya
Sangeet-O-Sanskriti Parishad, Bombay,
Diploma Course in Modern Choreography,
from Ananda Shankar Centre for
performing Arts, is another feather in her
cap.
Madhurnita displayed her talent many
a times at Madras and Calcutta at a very
young age. She has performed colourful
Chhau Dances for Nik'nil Bharat Cultural
and Literature Society and has taken part
in Tagore Dance telecast by Calcutta
Doordarshan. A recipient of West Bengal
Rajya Sangeet Academy Reward she also
participated in a seminar of All India Folk
Dance Festival at Calcutta.
She started learning Chhau Dance
under the guidance of Guru Shree Shashi
Dharan Nairji and is continuing her training
under the guidance of renowned Mayur
Bhanja Guru Shree Aloek Niranjan Blshoi
at Shree Ram Bharatiya Kala Kendra.
Associated at present with the
renowned Indian Revival Group she is
working as a Dance Teacher at Green
Field Public School, Delhi.
She performs this evening on the
Parishad platform in the current 8th Yuva
Mahotsava.

JAYS H Ft EE
( Kathak)
Jayshree, a graduate from Avadh
University, did her initial training under
Shri Sant Gopal Mishra and Srnt. Reba
Vidyarthi and later specialised under Pt.
Birju Maharaj. She was a recepient of a
scholarship from Govt. of India (Deptt. of
Culture) .
She has performed all over India in
festivals like the “Haridas Sangeet
Sammelan", 25th Anniversary of U. P.
Tourism and was also honoured with the
title of “Shringarmani”
A television artist, Jayshree has acted
in various dance dramas. She has heen
awarded (Sangeet Prabhakar) from Prayag
Sangeet Sarniti.
She has given many Lecture demonstrations, and taught Kathak in
various institutions.
She is at present working as internee
dancer attached to the repertory wing of
the Kathak Kendra.

