Sun. 21 st Feb.

S. S U D H A
(Carnatic Vocal)
Kum. S. Sudha has been learning
vocal Carnatic classical music from early
childhood. After her initial training in
music from Sengalipurarn Sri Ramamurthy
Bhagavatar and Srnt. Vijaya Srinivas, she
has been receiving advanced training from
Srnt. Akhila Krishnan, a very senior
vocalist of Delhi in the Carnatic style.
Ever since her school and college

days and thereafter, slte has won a

D. ARAVAM U D HAN
(Carnatic-vocal)
Young Devanathan Aravamudhan, an
ardent lover of music since his childhood,

had his initial training in Carnatic Music
from his sister Srnt. Kalyani Rangarajan,
in Madras.
After shifting to Delhi, Aravamudhan
joined ‘Nadha Brahma Vidhyalayam’ of
Harinagar, under the tutelege of Sangeetha
Bhooshanarn Guru Shri V Janakiraman.
The dedicated and special pattern of
training, which the Guru is famous for,
was instrumental in his winning many a
rewards and prizes in the competitions
held, not only by private organisations but
by the Central Government too.
Aravamudhan, known for his
magnificent and melodious voice tries to
pour ‘Bhava’ in his renderings. He is a
regular contributor for the Yuva Vani
Section of All India Radio, New Delhi and
also gives occasional concerts during
cultural festivities. A graduate in Science,
Aravamudhan is presently serving with the
Central Government.
Shri Aravamudhan gives his recital on
the platform provided by the S.K.P.

number of prizes in music competitions
including the first prize in Sangeetayan’s
All-lndia Music Competition.
Besides giving regular performances
in the Yuva Vani of All lndia Radio, she
is giving public concerts under the auspices
of music Sabhas in the Capital .
Kurn. Sudha, a Science (Honours)
Graduate of Delhi University with a degree
in Education also from the Central Institute
of Education, Delhi University, is at
present a teacher in Montfort Senior
Secondary School, Ashok Vihar, Delhi.
This evening she performs from the
SKP platform in the 8th Yuva Mahotsava.

R. I N Dl RA
(Carnatic-Violin)
A third year student of B. Sc. (Hons)
Physics at St. Stephen’s college, Indira
started learning Violin from Sangeeta
Bhushanarn Guru Shri V. Janakiraman in
1985. She has received the certificate of
“Nadha Brahma Kala Bhushanam” from
the Nadha Brahma Vidyalayam for having
completed the four year’s course offered
by the institution. She has won prizes in
various competitions in Delhi.
She has given solo recitals and has
accompanied several musicians. She is a
regular artiste of Yuva Vani, A. l. B.
This evening she is giving her recital
in 8th Yuva Mahotsava on the rostrum
of the "Sahitya Kala Parishad.”

