RAMLlLA
Sita Haran was the first portion of Ramlila, in its
Uttaranchal style that was attempted by Parvatiya
' Kala Kendra in 1981. It was followed by the portion
from 'Pushpa-Vatika' to 'Sita Swayamver' in 1983.
Another attempt was made in 1985 when major
portion covering an abridged version of Ramlila
was presented. The Kendra has had the occasions
to present these portions in India and in 1988,
'Pushpa-Vatika' was presented in Pyongyang,
Beijing and Bankok.
The present effort to present all the major portions
in parts, is aimed at developing further its traditional
design in respect of all its presentational aspects,
especially music, acting, costumes and stage
techniques. Owing to lack of funds it could not be
presented in an open air theatre. The current
practice of various Ramlila groups to build a
temporary proscenium theatre in the open air, does
not keep its original form intact which combined a
proscenium stage with a rectangular acting area
open in three sides for the audience to sit. Parvatiya
Kala Kendra hopes to do it in future.
Rarnlila of Uttaranchal is fully operatic in character.
All the characters develop the story through a
_ plethora of songs sung in all kinds of musical forms
ranging from classical ragas to bhajans, gazals,
quawalis etc. and surprisingly, no indigenous tunes
are used. The languages used too ranges from Brij
to Khari Boli, Hindi and Urdu. It has copiously drawn
upon the- rich musical repertoire of North—Indian
traditional theatre like Nautanki, Maach, Jatra and
Bass. Ramcharitmanas is the basis of this Ramlila,
but songs in Hind, Urdu and Hindustani have
replaced most of the original verses of the manas
lending it a theatricality.

The main objective of Paravatiya Kala Kendra,
taking up *this venture is to preserve as also to
creatively enrich the original composition. Another
objective is to improve it in all its presentational
aspects so as to enable the modern audiences to
enjoy its music and theatrical charm. The Kendra is
confident that by making sustained efforts for a
sustained period of time Ramlila can acquire the
status of a real National Opera.

