DELHI

ART THEATRE

८

Flat 36, Shankar Market, Connaught Circus
New Delhi 110001

Delhi Art Theatre has earned a distinctive place in the capital
for their bold and imaginative approach towards theatre. They
strive to combine the best in literature with the best in theatre. It

believes theatre must reflect life imaginatively and artistically in all
its facets. It cannot be divorced from its socio—cultural roots.
group's productions bear testimony to this conviction.

The

Since the later half of last year the group, in recognition of its
distinctive service to theatre, was selected for financial assistance
by the Department of Culture, Government of India. Under that
scheme NADI R SHAH was the first presentation.
It is a great help
and the group wholeheartedly welcomes it. But the group hopes

that the authorities would realise that the kind of meaningful and
ambitious operas anb musical plays that 'it produces
need a
much more solid financial backing to sustain it so that this beautiful
and powerful genre is properly sustained.
NADIR SHAH despite the fierce competition of the International
Film Festival and lukewarm reception by some critics became a

unique cultural event of the season.

Except few lean halls out of

13 nights we had packed houses. The appreciative response of
the audiences which included very distinguished personalities was

overwhelming and once again confirmed our View that this is the
genre as handled by the group which would give meaningful
and entertaining theatre to the people,
Invitation to perform
NADIRSHAH in various cities of the country are pouring in.

This time the group has taken another big challenge in pre—
senting YASIVIIN, a musical drama in Punjabi. This is an adaptation
of Lorca’s world famous tragedy Yerma.
The group can accept such challenges as it possesses talent
which can be the envy of any group in the country.

Delhi Art Theatre has many outstanding performances to its
credit. Kesro, Godan, Dada Damodar, Kanjoos, Post Office and
Shodshi—all were recognised as outstanding productions.

In the field of opera and musicals Delhi Art Theatre has carved
a unique and unrivalled place for itself. Call of the Valley was

