Y E RMA
(Extrac t from the introduction by Francisco Garcia Lorca)

. . . In Yerma, while seeking a design simpler in elements and fur—
ther purged of the ingredients of fantasy, instead of staying closer
to reality Federico moved away from it. Of the trilogy contained
in this book. Yerma is the play which has the smallest number of
elemants directly inspired by reality. Federico turned to a theme
present in all his lyric and dramatic work —that of a frustrated instinct for motherhood; this theme he embodied in the character that
is the most symbolic in all his theatre perhaps the most dramatic
and, l was about to say, the most poetic.
The drama centers about the violence with which the main
character lives her personal conflict. It has been arguedwa little
childishly, to my notion—that Yerma’s dramatic obsession is not
entirely justified psychologically, since it could have a solution. And
in effect, it could have one, and there would be no drama, by
making Yerma cease to be Yerma—that is to say, by making her

cease to feel her maternal instinct tragically. Or, with the easy
solution (entirely problematical in another sense) of changing men.
It would not be worth the effort to falsify Yerma's character by
making her violate her sense of duty—anothor defining trait of her
character—So that afteerard she might continue being Yerma as
before. This solution is proposed in the play and rejected...

In Yerma the conflict is determined by a force that struggles
against itself within the soul. A violent anxiety of fertility and
sterility, or on another plane, of life and death—as in all of Federico’s plays.

Man’s essential drama.

The instrument which brings death to that child who never
existed except in the the form of a desperate hope is Yerma herself.
The solution, if the term may be so used, she gives out of her own
flesh. It is the right thing for the play that Yerma should kill with
her own hands and not with a knife, as in Blood Wedding; those
hands held the power of death,

character herself.

embodied by now in the central

I n the final scene, prepared by a frenzied dance

to life, what is mourned is nothing other than the symbolic death

of Yerma, now without direction or justification.

It is Yerma who

dies, just as it was she who was in final agony before.

In the

play's dramatic conception everything is a reference to the single
character.

