Sita Haran was the ﬁrst portion of Rarnlila, in its
Uttarakhand style that was attempted by Parvatiya Kala
Kendra in 1981. It was followed by the portion from
'Pushpa-Vatika' to 'Sita Swaymber' in 1983. Another

attempt was made in 1985 when major portion covering
an abridged version of Ramlila was presented. The
Kendra has had the occasions to present these portions in
India and in 1988; 'Pushpa-Vatika' was presented in
Pyongyang, Beijing and Bangkok.
The present effort to present all the major portions in part,
is aimed at developing further its traditional design in
respect of all its presentational aspects, especially music,
acting, costumes and stage techniques. Owing to lack of
ﬁmds it could not be presented in an open air theatre. The
current practice of various Ramlila groups to build a
temporary proscenium theatre in the open air does not
keep its original form intact which combined a
proscenium stage with a rectangular acting area open in
three sides for the audience to sit. Parvatiya Kala Kendra
hopes to do it in future.
Ramlila of Uttarakhand is fully operatic in character. All
the characters develop the story through a plethora of
songs sung in all kinds of musical forms ranging from
classical ragas to bhajans, gazals, qawwalis etc. and
surprisingly no indigenous tunes are used. The language
used too ranges from Brij to Khari Boli, Hindi and Urdu.
It has copiously drawn upon the rich musical repertoire of
North-Indian traditional theatre like Nautanki, Maach,

Jatra and Rass. Ramcharitmanas in the basis of this
Ramlila, but songs in Hindi, Urdu and Hindustani have
replaced most ofthe original verses of the Manas lending .
it theatricality.
The main objective of Parvatiya Kala Kendra in taking up
this venture is to preserve as also to creatively enrich the
original composition. Another objective is to improve it
in all its presentational aspects so as to enable the modern
audiences to enjoy its music and theatrical charm. The
Kendra is conﬁdent that by making sustained efforts for a

sustained period oftime Ramlila can acquire the status of
a real National Opera.
This year's production has a novelty: Fresh talents
have been cast in the leading roles who share their
passion for Uttarakhand culture with the founders of

