The play speaks in a classical language
in terms of sets. costumes and dance, even
as it questions the stereotypes inherited
from classical theatre: “Why is the king
above blame even when he disowns his
pregnant wife as King Dushyant does in

३ '1 Hidden Power
Vidyotta‘rna,’a ﬁctional play on the wife of

Abhﬁnanasakuntalam?" lndian aesthetics is
uncomfortable with a flawed hero and
Vidyottarna makes a strong point against

Kalidas, establishes the rights ofa Woman in the
home and marriage है

the dosh—mukt nayak of Natyashashtra, an
ancient Indian treatise that continues to
shape our creativity. “She challenges
Brahrnanical aesthetics and suggests that
theatremust do more than provide ananda;
it must present reality even if this is unpalat—
able," says Maharishi.

“Not much iswritten aboutVidyottarna

ter of a king and an accomplished classical
dancer. in his play, Vidyottmna. The play. enacted bythe NSD Repertory and directed by

and even the story of Kalidas is distorted
when it reaches us.I havenever been an activist but things that hit me between the
eyes come into mytheatre,” saysMaharishi.
The relationship between Kalidas and
Vidyottarna could have emerged from the
book of a strident feminist He is the poet
laureate, but she raises the standard of debate of his works. “Why are all Brahmins
worshipped in your plays?" she asks. She
teaches him Mohiniyattarn as well as supervisesthe staging ofhisplay, Abhijnanas—
akuntaiam He is rnesrnerised by her beauty
and learning, but she sets therules - hecan

Maharishi, will be staged at Delhi's National

ask her no questions about why she regu—

School of Drama from November 4.

lariy disappears from the palace.

DIPANITA NATH
NOT MUCH is known about Sanskrit’s great-

est poet and playwright, Kalidas. Even less
is heard abouthis wife.The womanwho inspired vivid verses on sensuality has been

given different namesand histories byfolk—
lorists. singers and storytellers overthe centuries. Mohan Rakesh called her Mallika in
Ashadh Ka Ek Din Mohan Maharishi now
imagines her tobe Vidyottarna. the daugh—

Maharishi's previous plays include a biographyofOrhan Pamuk called Istanbul. an
exploration of the Theory of Relativity in
Einstein and a slamming of corruption in
Raja ki Rasoi. Working with a mixed cast of
experienced and new repertory actors, he
creates Vidyottama with attention to detail
and is helped by Bharati Shivaji’s choreogra—

phy. The play, however, falters in its dialogue
A scenefrom the play Vidyottama

delivery as an old weakness of NSD graduates in speech training surfaces.

