19th November/91

On the one hand, Chuhar has an evil eye on Chandra while
debauchee Suyonga wants to abduct all the four daughters of
Maheswara Bhandari, including Kusuma. His intention is to expand the
size of his kingdom through the exploitation of the sharp intellect of
Kusuma sisters. Hence Suyonga comes up as a challenge to Salhesa.
This challenge aggrandizes when Suyonga captured Buddheswara
who was enroute to Pakaria. Cunning Suyonga puts a condition that
Buddheswara would be released only if Salhesa surrenders himself.
Salhesa accepts the condition and so he is put in the jail, Buddheswara
is freed. After some time, one day under Kusuma's leadership
Buddheswara with his soldiers attacks the army of Kirateswar (of kirat
kingdom) Suyonga is defeated and is forced to be captive.
Disheartened Suyonga begs pardon and is forgiven by king Salhesa.
In the meantime, Chuhar is compelled to quit his post of
Commander (Senapati)). Offended by this act of Manchandra, Chuhar
look desperately for a chance to take revenge. At last, he succeeds
stealing "MAHALATA” from the royal treasury of Manchandra,
Buddheswara who was appointed at Mahisautha is sent to prison
bound by his promise. Salhesa has to go to Pakaria to be imprisoned
there.

Although Rani Satyawati is melancholy because of the affair of
his husband with Kusuma, she requests Kusuma to help at this
juncture. Kusuma assures Satyawati to rescue Raja Salhesa.
Sharpminded Kusuma regains the stolen ”MAHALATA" from Chuhar
and his group of thieves with the help of her younger sister Dona. The
two princess do the job quite cleverly. Frustrated by this Checkmate
Chuhar invited powerful Chinese King of Shan Dynasty to invade the
plunder Mithila, But, Chuhar is killed in a fierce fight with Salhesa which
is shown in the play by 'Trigat' (groups of three). Victorious Raja
Salhesa wishes to give a recognition to his love with Kusuma and wants
to marry her but mature Kusuma ponders realistically and concludes
that their desired union is rather impossible, She, in fact does not want
to encroach upon the right of Rani Satyawati. Pensive and wistful Raja
Salhesa dissociates Kusuma who is left alone with the pang of her
supressed love.

