19th November/91

because of three reasons: (1 ) Salhesa was a shudra by caste (2) His
attachment to water, forest and land and his concepts to environment

are very relevant today (3) Salhesa was a follower of Saivisrn while his
beloved Kusurna followed Buddhism. Religion also became an
obstacle on the path of their meeting.
We have a good amount of historical proof regarding ’Sawarna'

regimes but such proof is missing as far as 'Dusad" Kings like Raja
Salhesa are concerned. All these facts inspired me to focus Raja
Saihesa as a hero. This play, candidly speaking, is a result of our

perseverance. The message carried by the play is centered to bring up

the personality of Raja Salhesa and to expose his pertinent ideas
concerning balance of regional powers as well as attachment to water,
woods and land. Besides, I have tried to search the tender affection
between Salhesa and Kusurna in new perspectives. Hence, some

liberty has been taken from the original folk tale.
One question has always tormented my feelings. Why there is a
distance between theatre of North and South Bihar? The subject matter

of Raja Salhesa is of North Bihar while presentation is inspired by chhau
dance of Saraikela (South Bihar) and also by region movements,
sounds and mudras. This experiment would bridge the two culturers —
I wish.

I have been absolutely attached to this project right from script
— writing till the final presentation So, my attempt has been to bring out

the nature and form of presentation directly from the content. I have
rather tried to catch the spirit that prevails in the intimacy between
content and style of Indian folk theatre, we have given place to
Vidyapati - songs, dialogues in Maithili and Biharis folk - ballads like

chaita and so on. This was necessary to make the presentation smooth.
Symbols like flower and drone and pigeon have been used to give a
sense of folk play and also to communicate the mental condition of
characters with the audience, such an innovative attempt has been

made in scene. Art of theft was recognised as a great knowledge in
Salhesa's period. Such 'Chorvidya' is mentioned in Sudrakas ' Mitti Ki

