DIRECTOR'S NOTE

"WE
Mas

Neurosis Dromaticus
It’s 6 ' Centigrade. There’s a powercut. DESU kijai! The headlights in the traffic-jam supply Hollywoodesque backlightin
g
to the exhaust fumes and light my nauseous way to another rehearsal. The traffic—jam means many members of
the cast
are (gloing to be late. The cold black gates are locked and there's no sign of the chowkidar. Damn, 1 forgot to
bring the
can es.
is anyone going to be spirited here tonight to take on the two roles not yet cast? Anyone over thirty? Anyone who
Sings? Anyone willing to jump out of their regular routine for the next few weeks, risking neglect of spouse and kids,

blanking out all other social engagements, to rehearse and perform in a play? The answer comes in chorus from the
horns of jammed vehicles. They'd rather go home and enjoy the powercut there.
How many more colds and sore throats are we going to notch up tonight? How do you rehearse in the dark with
v01celess actors? 1 know: do it as a sort of slow~motion ballet instead, with luminous masks perhaps, or coalminer’s
helmets fitted With lanterns. Or issue torches to the audience. Or else...

Ah, here he comes. Got an electric heater for his sentry—box. Got no generator though. In we go. Shift the chairs to the
Slde. Sweep the floor. Light a cigarette in the dark and think: Why am 1 doing this?
Think further. Still no sponsor. Ads are barely trickling in. Have to simplify the stage designs. Cancel the costume
deSigns and raid the cast’s wardrobes. The ETO wants a cyclostyled certificate from 23 years ago. The auditorium
charges have been increased since the first of February...
Hi! Where were you yesterday?... 1 see. You had an exam/tuitions/viral fever/broken leg/a wedding-in-the—family/an
audition for a TV serial/a lapse of memory/... Fascinating. Anyway, will you proxy the Policeman tonight? Yes, he
has a rapidly—developed malignant cancer of the left testicle. No, your left... Okay, let’s start...

Why "Blood Brothers”? After "Suno Re Kisso”?
For those who do not know. TAG produced a Hindi adaptation of “Blood Brothers" in 1991 है with music and lyrics by

Piyush Mishra. It was further adapted the following year as a teleplay for Doordarshan (although, for reasons known only
to Doordarshan, it was ultimately telecast as a five-part serial).
Some plays you develop a relationship with; they grow on you, like a warm, comfortable friendship, and you’re
always happy to meet them again.

When the idea of staging a musical as TAG’S ‘Comeback’ production was first raised, 1 immediately thought of “Blood
Brothers". It has raw, earthy qualities that make it more robust and vital than most other musicals. (lts nearest
equivalent is perhaps “West Side Story".) it has an almost (Hindi) filmic text and form that leave a lot of space for

interpretation. 1 reckoned it would be a fitting challenge for a new and largely young company of actors.
The London production has been running for nine years, and is advance-booked for several more. Strangely, though,
no one has heard the music in lndia. ls it any good, one wonders? A friend who saw the London production rated the
music as “unremarkable, not memorable". Not at all disconcerted by this evaluation, 1 was confident that, as with
“Suno Re Kissa”, local musical talent had the wherewithall to create remarkable and memorable music.
Deepak Castelino has more than proved my point. The musical style and instrumentation that he has developed

create a ‘sound’ that is unique and very moving. Working alongside Deepak has been invigorating, instructive and
great fun. The production has benefitted enormously from his involvement, and l thank him with warmest appreciati o n.

Warm personal regards also go to Bharat Kapur and Rahul Prakash for their sustained support and encouragement.

Finally, to the cast, admiration for their 3-months-long cornmittment to the project, and the hope that they continue
their involvement with the same enthusiasm and effort.
BAR R Y1OHN

