I965-66

but perhaps it is just this that makes
Theatre the intensely, vitally exc1t1ng,
creative business that it is. Not only were
we confronted with the prodigious problem of ﬁnding a new Hall because the
old Assembly Hall on Mahadev Road
had been given to the Films Division
Auditorium of the Government of India,

but we had lost ﬁve of our original corn-

survey
of the

pany of eight members. Marcus Murch
to tour
returned to Shakespeareana
South East Asia, Roshan Seth left for
further dramatic training in England,
Sneih Dass and Kusum Bahl married and
went with their husbands to Canada and
England respectively, Sushrna Mehra left
for Calcutta where her husband was transferred. Salima Raza who had worked with
us from the beginning, had to join her
husband who was posted to Bahrein.
So it could not possibly have been worse.
No company, no Hall, and the bleak prospects of having to start almost all over
again, ﬁnd fresh talent, negotiate a Hall,
build a new audience, The odds were
stacked forrnidably against us. But~—we
had learned many valuable lessons in the
ﬁrst year and established a good reputation for Yatrik—these were no mean
achievements and so, undaunted and
determined, we planned another season.

season
Finding a H a I I

DWe were optimistic enough to think
that the ﬁrst year would be the most
difﬁcult in terms of getting our repertory
company established, ﬁnding a Hall,
choosing suitable plays, and building
a regular theatre—going audience. We
ended our ﬁrst season in May 1963 on a
triumphant note, convinced that never
again would it be so bad, that the worst

that could possibly happen, had happened, and that we could look forward to
the future with a certain measure of conﬁ-

dence and tackle problems with renewed
vigour. We soon discovered that one can
never take anything for granted in the
Theatre— there is always conﬂict, suspense,

the dramatic turn to a series of events.
The challenge is constantly hovering above
one, the struggle is never quite resolved

l 2

lehe ﬁrst most formidable problem was
ﬁnding a suitable Hall. We made several
unsuccessful attempts at trying to hire
various halls, but either they were too
large, not available on a long-term basis,
prohibitively expensive, or hopelessly inadequate for our purposes. Our require-

ments were very simple, as anyone who
has seen the Assembly Hall on Mahadev
Road will know. At one stage when
we were really desperate, we seriously
considered the prospect of asking the
New Delhi Municipal Committee for a
piece of land in the Connaught Place
area where we could pitch a ‘tent theatre’.
Finally we went in a delegation to the
Defence Minister and pleaded for the
Defence Pavilion. We owe Sai Paranjpe
a special vote of thanks for her efforts

on behalf of Yatrik. The ramiﬁcations of
how we ﬁnally got the Defence Pavilion

