Defence Minister and Mr. H. C. Sarin of
the Ministry of Defence who made it

that of actors who ﬂoat from one group
to another to get the roles they want.
How many of these actors would be willing
to sacriﬁce the urge to accept big parts

are too complicated to describe, but we

are deeply and everlastingly grateful to the

possible for us to have the Hall for the

by taking on small roles, of assisting back—

entire season. This is one of the best
Halls in Delhi but it has been in disuse
for so long that it is literally falling to

stage, painting sets, of working as a member
of a repertory company rather than functioning as a separate entity. What is the

pieces. However, with the cooperation of

solution? We have learned through experience, and we are realistic enough to

the authorities we were able to have it
whitewashed, cleaned and made stagepurpose—we have always wanted a small,

know, that the only way to commit an
actor is to pay him. In the ﬁnal analysis
it is the economic factor that counts.

intimate theatre, seating not more than

This would be the ﬁrst step toward pro-

200 people—so we screened off part of

fessionalism. It is our ultimate hope that
one day we can pay each actor, director,
and stage assistant, but until that time
comes we have to continue to grapple
with the problem as best we can.

worthy. The theatre is too large for our

the auditorium and used only the front
seats. At times of an overfiow we have
removed these screens. It has been a great

joy to work in a real theatre. After the
Assembly Hall to which we became
greatly attached, the Defence Pavilion is
luxurious—we have good dressing rooms,
a ﬁne stage with plenty of wing space,

storage facilities, an enclosed lawn and
an enormous foyer. The

most difﬁcult

problem has been to get rid of the hundreds
of pigeons that have made their homes in
the false ceiling and the enormous rats
that sometimes skip across the stage during
a performance, or a pigeon which merrily
ﬂies around the set during a performance,

Selection of Plays
DYATRIK was commended often in the
ﬁrst year for its wise selection of plays.
This has been more difﬁcult to maintain
during the second year because of the

perennial problem of ﬁnding good Hindi
plays. Most of the time one has to be
content in doing good translations or
adaptations of foreign plays because
good Hindi scripts are so difﬁcult to come

setting precariously on a batten or spotlight,
by.
oblivious of the utter

confusion caused

We have been criticized and rightly

so, for attempting to do only translations.

to director, cast and stage crew !

We are making a sincere effort at attempt

The Search for Talent

languages which could be translated
into Hindi, but even this presents
problems. YATRIK had set out to

ing to ﬁnd good plays in the regional

DAn even greater and more formidable
problem than ﬁnding a Hall, was ﬁnding
new talent, attempting to build the corn—

pany afresh into a cohesive group. Our

strength in the ﬁrst year lay in the fact
that we were a closely knit company of
eight people who had worked together
and who had the same common ideals—
we believed, ﬁrmly and unfailingly, in the
concept of the repertory idea—YATRIK
was the offspring of our joint efforts, and
as such, we felt inextricably involved.

The problem that arose in the second year

be a bilingual group, against last
years’ two Hindi plays, it was decided
that there would be three in Hindi and
three in English. However, the lack of
producers and plays, unfortunately, set
back the plans and again two Hindi plays
were presented during the year. In choosing
a play we make a serious attempt to present
what we consider is “good theatre”, keeping

in mind casting, sets, costumes, and trying
to choose plays which are representative
and at the same time with, what is so often
called, ‘a universal theme’. It is a common

was how were we to get this same degree
of involvement in YATRIK from new
members. How were we to tackle the
greatest problem that plagues every

play well done will always draw audiences.

amateur theatre group in the capital—

The criterion then is that a good play, well

belief that only comedies are box-ofﬁce
successes. Our experience is that a serious

3

