directed, with a high standard of acting,
will succeed in attracting audiences.

Delhi. The opening
performance 01
KHALAL HAI DEMAGH KA which
was in aid of disabled servicemen, drew

a packed house but this dropped noticeably
Lo c at i o n

in the course of the next few months and

DThe location of the Defence Pavilion has

been another handicap. Although it is
situated on Mathura Road. there is no

taxi or scooter stand nearby, with the
result that members of the audience
sometimes have diﬁciculty in getting transport after performances. We have tried
to arrange for a taxi or scooter stand,
but since our performances are only on
weekends, this has not been possible.
People have experienced difﬁculty in ﬁnding
the Theatre once on Mathura Road.
The lighting inside the Exhibition grounds
is far from adequate and until the time of
the ECAFE exhibition in March we had
no lights at all. We have prevailed on the
CPWD to give us a ﬂood light on the
Pavilion but lighting at the entrance needs
improving. The CPWD being as dilatory

as it is, this is no easy task. But we hope
to pay greater attention to transport and

lighting facilities for audiences this coming

year.

Theatre Membership
DThere has been a slight increase in our
theatre membership in the second season.
We now have 60 Theatre Members but it
is our intention to have at least 200 mem-

bers for the coming year. In addition to
the six plays during the 1965-66 Theatre
Season we have had a summer programme
consisting of plays and poetry reading,
recordings,

and ﬁlms,

both

then started building gradually again until
we had full houses for the last two plays.
It has been very heartening to ﬁnd that
the same people come back again and again
and that 80 per cent of our audience is
Indian. This is as it should be—we want

to build a regular theatre—going Indian
public. At the last performance of THE
LITTLE HUT in December when the

front portion of the auditorium was sold
out, we had to take down the screens,
open the back of the theatre and then sold
over 200 tickets at the Gate.

Playing for Schools
len interesting event this past season has
been our production of a children’s play

called

THE

DANCING

DONKEY.

Written in Dutch and translated into
English, it is a delightful story of a f'riar,
his donkey, two nice girls and two villains.
The moral of the tale is that one should
not steal. It is meant for age group 4 to
12 and is performed by adults. The music
has been composed by Harold Joseph,
Director of Military Music and of the
Delhi Symphony Orchestra. This has
been performed for ﬁve schools with

great success. It is our intention to play
THE DANCING DONKEY to all
English-speaking schools in Delhi and
perhaps later, to experiment with plays in
Hindi for Hindi-speaking schools also.
One of Yatrik’s objectives is the promotion of educational theatre.

from the

British Information Service and the United
States Information Service. This has
been a feature to which Theatre Members
and their guests have been invited. We
want very much to develop the idea of a
Theatre Club where members can come

Equipment, Finances
DWe have received great encouragement

from the Sangeet Natak Akaderni and
the Ministry ’of Education, Government

to a performance and stay on for supper
and meet the director and cast of the play

of India, in the form of grants speciﬁcally
for equipment for the theatre. Today

and members of Yatrik.

we have our own spotlights and with the
purchase of our own dimmers, switch-

Audiences have grown perceptibly as the
year progressed. We opened the season

during the days of emergency curfew in
4

board, and additional lighting equipment,
we should be moving far towards being
completely self-sufﬁcient in this respect.

