We also have standard ﬂats, doors, windows and platforms of varying sizes,

some costumes and properties. We have
acquired a
second-hand tape-recorder
and an inter-communication set. This
has been possible entirely because of the
grants so generously given to us. We
hope gradually to acquire more essential
equipment and stage property.
Financially we have probably lost what
little proﬁt we made in the ﬁrst year,
but our expenses have been considerably
higher and our liabilites have greatly
increased. The Defence Pavilion itself and
the cost of electricity have been eight
times more per month than what we paid
at the Assembly Hall. The cost of productions have naturally gone up a great

we feel that we have been able to make
some progress in two years, small and
humble though it be.

A New Season
DAnd so we look forward to our third
season. Looking back it seems incredible
that we have weathered the storms of two
rather hectic, exhausting years—years
that have been fraught with diﬂiculties,
with what seemed insurmountable problems, frustrations, disappointments, with

sheer physical fatigue—but then we have
won through, and once again we can hold
up our heads and say that perhaps it will

never be as bad again. With the Defence
Pavilion assured to us for the next theatre

deal because of a larger stage, the need
for more lights, realistic sets, maintenance

season, with the exciting possibility of
having a core of six full-time professionals

and other service expenses. For the ﬁrst
time we have made an attempt to pay

joining us to strengthen our Hindi wing,

actors, directors, and stage managers
something towards transport. This has

ahead. We plan to have a season of
the classics — Sophocles, Shakespeare,

taken away whatever proﬁt we might have
made. A full house of 240 seats priced
at Rs. 5/- and Rs. 3/- would give a total
of approximately Rs. 900/- per show,
but it is safe to estimate on a two-thirds
ﬁgure which is roughly Rs. 600/- per
performance. Each play runs eight per-

Moliere and Chekhov. In Hindi we hope
to ‘break new ground’ and present
some interesting and challenging plays.

we are already making plans for the year

If our plans materialize, we should have
rich fare to present to Delhi audiences
this season and for our actors, the best

possible parts in the theatre. With the

which is about what it costs to put on each

help and well-wishes of our members and
our audiences, we look forward with keen

production. It is therefore, a constant
anxiety to make “two ends meet”. But

anticipation to an exciting and rewarding
theatre season in 1966-67.

formaces making a total of Rs. 4800/-

