tigating officer, in sorting out the details
of what actually happened.
The Director brought out the mounting
tension and suspense in his production.
There were moments when the members
of the audience were literally sitting on
the edge of their chairs.
The set was completely realistic,_box-like,

and utilitarian, attractively furn1shed and
decorated.

“The Hindustani version of DIAL M FOR
MURDER presented by Yatrik Theatre
at the Defence Pavilion, is among the best
of the adaptations of the play staged so a
far.
DIAL M is a murder mystery and much
of the suspense would not have been created
but for slick acting. Strict timing and
intelligent sound effects helped to create

the bated breath”...
Hindustan Times

“Yatrik have developed a definite compeSumer threatens to reveal .l/Iic/lael’s true iden'ity to the police.

tence for interesting theatre, and this despite
a lately migrant company in parts. One
is assured of entertaining evenings at their
productions ; sometimes risque andfunny,
at others grimly absorbing ; at all times
carefully and often engagingly rendered.
In DIAL M FOR MURDER, the group
offers a hardy perennial among ur'hodunits
and a thoroughly gripping job they make
of it .....
It is a good adaptation in its essentials :
all the tortured scheming rings true, the
central situation holds, and the characters
behave as persons in any respectable whodunit have the right to .....
Veteran director K. C.Khanna does not balk
at murder : he is swift and purposeful and
when it comes to suspense he is unrelenting.

DIAL M FOR MURDER grips one
from start to finish.”
Times of India
“A Gripping Play by Yatrik”
Yatrik has recruited some fine fresh talent

for its latest production andone can only
commend its desire to provide intelligent
plays in Hindustani.
Dr. KC. Khanna’s production maintained
the suspense from the beginning to the
end and proved gripping theatre... .
Kewal Kapoor as the suave and diabolical
villain Sumer gives a first—rate portrayal,

while Nigam Parkash as the lover is equally
good... The actor who nearly stole the show
was Raghbir Singh as Inspector Iqbal
Singh—he was
impressive
throughout.
We also welcome the return to the Delhi
stage of the veteran thespian Rajeshwar

Nat/t, who gave a polished performance
as Michael.”
Statesman

The Inspector asks Rae/ma to identify the murderer.

