The Chandigarh trip wasco—sponsored by
the Literary Society of the Umversny and
the Home Science College.

“No one who loves good theatrical entertainment should miss Yatrik‘s delightful
presentation of “THE LITTLE HUT”. We
have seen this play in the very ﬁne staging

by the Bombay Theatre Group; but the
performance of Yatrik’s small but highly
competent company is so excellent that I
doubt if it can be greatly improved upon.
Mrs. Sushma Mehra, Mr. Prakash Mire/tandani, and Mr. Siddharth Kak, exploit every
funny line. Mrs. Mehra is absolutely charming as the obligingﬂ'male, Mr. Mirchandani
excels himself in a splendid piece of acting
as Philip, and Mr. Kak, with his scruples and
sensitivity, gives a comic reading to a very

good part ’ ’ .
Statesman
“The Little Hut” Sizzles on the Stage—
In certain Ways. THE LITTLE H UT.
is about the closest the British came to the
European Common Market : the play offers
an ebulient French style of sex enjoyed the

PHILIP : “Anyway shoes are one of the things that can’t
be (160' well shared like toothbrushes and wives."

SUSAN : “There can’t be much harm in

us all being terribly fond of each other."

Emits/1 1३ a)” ।प१// due ceremony. The result
IS a vmegar-and—salt mixture :
turf and

witty and furiously amusing, ﬁlled wit/z the
most winning suggestions a wife ever made

to a husband to cure him of the pains of
cuckoldry.

Yatrik’s production of THE LITTLE HUT
bears the hallmark of this most competent
and versatile group. As directed by Nigam

Prakash the play fairly sizzles on the stage.
The set is a big laugh ; it is a rich caricature
of a "'01)an l island scene, lush with painted
and papered vegetation and full of mons-

trous pumpkins, and ﬁ'angipani. inhabited
by butterﬂies. all of them large as sin and

curiously leery.
The production is delivered at a hilarious
gal/op, in a quick thrust and parry of line and
gesture. Pauses are signiﬁcant. the dialogue
carries the ceaseless innuendo wit/1 great
rlelish. the running and chasing are vigorouslv
( ()ll(’.

