ibsen—the man and the dramatist
lbsen’s plays have travelled all over the world for a century, with their characters Speaking for
this challenging playwright. His plays have always been a priority to students of literature or
lovers of art. Henrik I been is generally credited with being the ”father of modern drama.” He

is also credited with providing modern drama with Realism, Lyricisrn, masterful plot construction, and discussion—particularly of social issues in the 'Problem plays’ for which he is best
known.

_

.

lbsen was born at a time when the entire Western World was taking a new shape, Whatever
the ultimate pleasure of art may be the process of artistic creation always implies a conscious or unconscious reaction to life on the part of the creator himself. Born in 1828, Ibsen saw
in the course of his long life (died 1906) a series of happenings, the consequences of which
could not but effect the future of Europe and indeed of mankind.
The world was changing. it was the period in which the advent of Darwin’s theory of evolution in particular undermined, or threatened to Undermine, a number of old inherited beliefs,
including those religious and moral values ofmankind which until then hed been regarded as

unshakeable. The triumphs and the ravages of science also added their contributions. The
revolutionary outbursts like the abolition of serfdorn in Russia, the rise of united Italy, the
slogans against the colonies of imperialistic powers, shook almost an the - set ideas of the
period.
~

It was with these changing processes at work that lbsen’s creative years coincided. His social life was neither great nor dramatic in a Spectular sense. Just eight years after he was
born, his family lost their wealth and, impoverished and ~ostracized, moved to a cottage at
the edge of the coastal town Skien Because of his father's preoccupation with his business
failures and his mother’s dogmatic religious beliefs, Ibsen was close only to his sister Hedvig.
His schooling was poor, and he‘became introverted and bitter In 1843, the 15 year-old I bsen
left Skien and went to Grimstad, another small coastal town, where he became a pharmacist's
apprentice. lbsen Spent seven years there, drudging for a pittance.

As the result of an affair

with an older servant, he fathered a child that he SUpported for some fourteen years He
also read avidly-particularly romantic and chivalric poetry,and Norse history—and began writ‘ ing poetry. Participating in local politics, he attacked provincial hypocrisies and espoused
Scandinavian nationalism as a defense against Prussian expansionism The revolutionary atmosphere of the late 1840's, as well as his raeding, influenced the writing of his first play,
CATA L l N A .
lbsen did not sacrifice the artistic side of his work to any moral, philosophic or social consideration. In a way he balanced all these elements. For all that, the poet and the artist in him
remained uppermost, even if his worship was devoted to TRUTH rather than to beauty. This
truth is more than a mere logical agreement of thought and fact; it is rooted much deeper,
since it originates in the interpretation of life and. thought and involves the total personality.
The "truth” is that a traditional code of ethics is not an adequate instrument for the regula7
tion of human relations.
Life
purification.
and
liberation
Each and every play served the purpose of ’truth’, that is, self
effort to seek and
means to fight the ghosts of dark powers within oneself, he felt, and in his

