to find out the truth inherent in the age in which he lived, lbsen was one of those geniuses
who create because they must. His art never c0pied reality, nor is it a mere record of facts
but a creative attempt to highlight his ideas within the framework of theatrical conventions,
He would select, eliminate and intensity and never forget that he is writing for the stage. His
plays intensified his fighting Spirit as well as his quest for those conditions in which individual men and women realise themselves freely and fully in the very teeth of social, political or
any other taboos. As a playwright his favourite attitudes were that of a judge, critic and
fighter.

All his early works (Warrior's Barrow, 1850; St. John’s Night, 1853: Lady Inger of Ostrat, 1855;
The Fest at Solhaug, 1856; Olaf Li!iekrans, 1857; and The Vikings at Helgeland, 1858) are ro-

mantic verse dramas based on Norwegian ballads and history. They are typical of the melodrama popular in the nineteenth-century theatre. But though artificial and for the most part
llfeless, they have the characteristic lbsen touches associated with the later and greater plays:
the reappearance of "ghosts" from the p ast, the conflict between idealism and reality, recurrent mysticism. a concern with social problems, and— perhaps most who struggle in tneir quest
for individual "freedom under responsibility".

After ”Peer Gynt” (1867), lbsen gave up history, legend, and verse and now he presented
contemporary problems NATURALISTICALLY, it often rnelodrarnatically.

His later plays (The Leage of Youth 1869. A Doll's House 1879, Ghosts 1881, An Enemy of the
People 1882, The Wild Duck 1884 Rosrnersholm 1886, the earlier-noted The Lady from the Sea
1890) the major problem plays. usually depicting small-town life, are meaningful beyond their
portrayal of contemporary issues of marriage and female emancipation,

fanaticism, parochial hypocrisy, and corruption.

religious and

moral

Such immediate problems, if not totally

resolved, are now atleast cons?dered respectable topics of discussion. But there is much to
lbsen’s plays They grapple with and reveal human problems that are as relevant to our age
as to lbsen's. The characters are complex and universal; one can still identify with their struggles for self-understanding and self-realisation. Yet the brooding and the classical starkness
of many of these dramas are punctuated by humor-an ever-present quality in l bsen's works.
His last plays (The Master Builder 1892, Little Eyolf 1894. John Gabriel Borkman 1896, and
When We Dead Awaken 1899) deal with the guilty intrOSpection of artists and businessmen,
and goes back, as it were, to the poetry of his ﬁrst plays - though the last plays, allusive and
poetic as they may be, are written in prose. Beginning with the earlier THE WILD DUCK,
l bsen increasingly turned from problem plays and from the societal to the individual, the
SYMBOLIC, and the mystical. These last plays are difficult, enigmatic, and highly metaphorical. in them, as in his earlier plays, it is not the “realism" or the choice of the particular
situation or problem that constitutes lbsen's artistry. It is rather, the striking dramatization
of his poetic vision of the human enigma that, finally, puts Ibsen in the forefront of modern
literature and makes him the father of the modern drama and theatre.

