. the paradox of ibsen
“More a poet and less a social phiIOSOpher.”

The words are quoted from an address given by Ibsen to the Norwegian Women‘s Rights
League, in reSponse to a toast on the occasion of his seventieth birthday.
This group of women, who literally idolized him as the great champion of
women‘s rights,
were doubtless a little shocked and offended by his blunt disclaimer of all credit for advan—

cing the cause of women, and by his assertion of the priority of his call as a
poet.

“I have

been,” he said, “more a poet and less a social philosopher than people generally seem
inclined to believe "
.
The women of Norway whom he thus addressed apparently held, in ﬂat
contradiction to
lbsen's own view, the generally prevalent idea that he was primarily a social
philosopher,
and that the most signiﬁcant aspect of his thinking was certain strain of
militant feminism.
His remark may be regarded as semething more than a good-natur
ed remonstrance: a
forthright, sincere declaration from the author himself of the more
essential yet generally

overlooked values within his so—called social dramas.

virtually says, than social theory.

.

i

There is no poetry in them, lbsen

I

I

But the most convincing evidence that his decision to renounce verse
was irrevocable and
dictated by aesthetic principles comes later, in his letter in the spring of
1883 to Mrs. Lucie
Wolf, a distinguished actress who had contributed signiﬁcantly to the
theatrical success of
lbsen’s work. She had invited Henrik Ibsen to compose a prologue
for the festival to be held
at the Christiania Theater in June of 1883, honouring the thirtieth anniversar
y of her stage
debut. In his reply, lbsen declined with sincere regret but took
the opportunity to state
his position concerning dramatic verse.
Almost dogrnatically, he asserted his belief
that nothing had been more detrimental to dramatic art
in the past than the use of verse,

and that it would be completely discarded in the future as
incompatible with contemporary
developments.
This letter throws a great deal of light on lbsen's motives
in making the momentous
decision of 1875. After writing his “Emperor and
Galilean" he never again returned to
verse. He discarded the romanticism of his youth
and boldly entered upon the realistic

phase of his development.

ln 1867, with passionate indignation, he had

defended his
poetic drama “Peer Gynt” against the strictures
of Clemens Peterson that his work,
although 'composed in verse, was not really
poetry but essentially “polemical journalism".
“My book is poetry" retorted lbsen; “and if
it is not, then it will be. The conception of
poetry in our country shall be made to conform with the book
.. " Less than a decade
later, he defended with equal passion the superiority
of prose as a dramatic medium.
After “Peer Gynt", which is his ﬁnal concession
to romanticism, lbsen discarded versiﬁed
dialogue entirely.
_
This renunciation of verse was at ﬁrst identiﬁed
with his awakening interest in naturalism.
George Brandes was so deeply touched by
the poignant beauty of lbsen’s youthful poems

that he felt “some time in the battle of life a lyric
Pegasus must have been killed under him.
The gain was

immense, but something was lost.

lost a poet".

The world gained a dramatlst; Norway

