It was at Grimstad where Ibsen Spent six lonely years of his adolescent life as an apothe-

cary’s apprentice that he felt the ﬁrst urge to become a poet.

He sought relief from a

depressing environment through reading and writing, in dreaming and trying to find articulate
expression for his yearning aspirations.
Thoroughly steeped in the romantic Spirit, he
revelled in the exquisite melancholy of unrealized love and the evanescence of beauty, in
landscapes and seascapes drenched in sentimental moonlight, and in nostalgic recollections
_of happy hours gone by.
All the familiar themes of conventional romanticism are found
In the early poems, but eventually they give way to more serious and universal themes.
When Ibsen in 1898 reﬁerred to himself as ”more poet and less social phiIOSOpher",
he had

in

mind the controversial social dramas that belong

to the

years immediately

after his renunciation of verse, and from which the image of Ibsen as the proponent
of women’s rights was derived. Almost invariably, in his explanations of his purpose
in making the change from verse to prose Ibsen reffers to a desire to produce “an
illusion of reality".

This does not mean that he was primarly motivated by any compulsive

desire to align himself with the current naturalistic school.

He condemned verse as an ana-

chronisrn in the modern theater and as a hindrance to a truthful attitude upon what he regar—
ded as the realities of life. This implies the necessity for further and more dramatic reforms
in structure and content of drama, but no automatic commitment to the cause of naturalisrn.
However, many critics in France and England were nevertheless deeply concerned with Ibsen
the social phiIOSOpher, and with the ideas dramatized in his plays. The ideas, it was realized,
bristle with startling paradoxes, baﬁle systematic categorizing and discourage any attempt to
pigeon-hole Ibsen philosophically. His social thought with its elusive poetic nuances, dramatic hyperboles, provocative questionings and devastating inconolasm, both shocked and stim ulated the theater audiences of the 19th centUry.
In the light, of the pronounced realistic tendencies in lbsen's social dramas: what are the
implications of his statement that he was more poet and less social philosopher? Among
modern scholars, Eric Bentley and Francis Ferguson have in particular made brilliant efforts

to cut the Gordian knot of this enigmam Bentley by his simple declaration that “Ibsen did not
reject poetry when he rejected verse", and Ferguson by his development of the idea of tragic
rhythm, by which he attempts to establish a poetic relationship between Ibsen and Sophocles.
Both seem to reach the common conclusion that Ibsen after 1873 evolved a new, revolutionary, and liberal concept of poetry particularly applicable to the needs of the modern theater.
Hence he may be considered as great a poet in “Ghosts" as in “Peer Gynt".
“Peer Gynt“ is an exuberant poetic fantasy, rich with haunting lyricism and not overburdened
with symbolistic overtones. Its external beauty and charm are unquestioned, and accepted
for what they superﬁcially are -—the patent manifestation of the conventional concept of poetry
he followed until he resolved to abondon verse. “Ghosts” on the other hand, represents a new
transcending the spirit of realism without neutralizing it and extending throughout the structure
of the drama a pre-emihent impression of strength and beauty. Francis Ferguson, quoting
the words of Mrs. A lving as she talks to Pastor Maunders at the beginning of the second act,
writes that “this passage is not by itself the poetry of the great dramatic poets. But in the
total situation ...... it has its own hidden poetry; a poetry not of words but of the theater,

poetry of the histrionic sensibility

The poetry of “Ghosts” is under the words, in the detail

of the action, where Ibsen accurately sensed the tragic rhythm of human life I n a thousand
small ﬁgures.”
step toward
His abondonment of verse was not a disavowal of his poet’s call, but the initial
of his
the realization of a richer poetic experience. If is indeed the most amazing paradox
poetry.
creative genius that out of realistic prose he could weave truly great

