_

में, कलाकारों क्री चुनाव समिति आदि में मैं उनके साथ रहा हूँ। हमारा उनसे संबंध बराबर सौहार्द पूर्ण

रहा । अब जब भी ऐसे मौके जाते है, मोहन जी बराबर राद जाते है । वे चले गये । जितनी सुखद स्मृतियां
है, दुखदायी लगने लगीं है । उनका अभाव खटकता है । उनके चित्र उभरते रहते है । उनक्री याद बनी
रहती है ।
वे एक Legendary Figure दे-भेरा ऐसा मानना है I उन्हें मैंने कभी नमस्ते नहीं क्री, पर अब
के

Q;

.

श्करता हू। उन्हें शत् शत् प्रणाम-

या मुट्ठी बांध कर कहूँ-लाल मनाम .......
-पंचानन पाठक
2 9 -4-3 8

ABOUT OURSELVES
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was registered as society in 1968 with a View to
promote the folk forms of Uttarakhand connected with the rituals, ceremonies,
dances and songs, legends, ballads, tales, as also the traditional Ramilila in order
to enhance and enrich opera theatre. The Kendra began slowly by adapting the
folk dances and songs of this region to the requirements of contemporary stage,
resulting in various choreographic compositions, which were staged on different
occasions in Delhi and other cities of the country, as well as abroad.
FOLK DANCES 8c FOLK MUSIC

The songs and dance ensemble was the ﬁrst phase of artistic growth of the
Kendra extending from 1968 to 1980. Programs of about two hours duration
were presented which projected the complete cultural milieu of the region. The
Kendra was cautious from the beginning to choose such a path that would help it
to avoid the pitfalls of the so called pure presentations in the name of authenticity
- which could only be crude copy of the original forms, or the other pitfall of an
individualistically oriented abstract choreography that would have gone beyond
the matrix of prevalent folk forms. This approach helped the Kendra to preserve
the vitality of the folk forms as also helped it to make them stage-worthy. This
was also necessitated by the fact that the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural
needs of a fast growing population of Uttarakhand dwelling in vast metropolis
like Delhi and, what is more important, to a new generation seeking its roots in
its ethnic culture. In a way this was an extension of the work started by Lok
‘Kalakar Sangh in Almora, wayback in the ﬁfties.

