and was also telecast in the National Network (1992) by Doordarshan.
Inder-Sabha ( 1991) was another major presentation to revive the traditional
theatre of India. Amanat's Inder-Sabha occupies a signiﬁcant place in the historical
development of modern Hindustani Theatre. The Kendra presented it in Delhi at
Shri Ram Centre and again at National School of Drama . It was also presented in
Udaipur and Jaipur under the auspices of Raj asthan Sangeet Natak Academy.

Similarly, the all time great play Meghdoot by Kalidas was presented in a
mix Of Hindi and Sanskrit in an operatic form (1993). On the demand of theatre
lovers it was repeated again (1994-) and again (1995).

Finally to bring into focus the contribution of the great Urdu poet and saint
to our composite culture - Arnir Khusro ( 1997) was staged which was well received
by Delhi theater lovers. It was selected as a play of the year (1997) by Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi, and was staged during its drama festival - Bhartendu Natya
Utsav, on Feb. 7, 1998 at Shri Ram Center, New Delhi, and again on Feb 11,

1998 at Shanker Lal Auditorium, Delhi University, Delhi.
Apart from these, the Kendra though concentracting on the folk heritage of
central Himalayan region, also used the heritage of songs and literary creations of
theatrical productions having roots in struggle for national liberation. Ganga
(1986), Lal-Gulab ( 1986), Vande-Mataram (1987) and Sanjhi Virasat were four

such ventures. Of these Vande-Manataram, sponsored by Delhi Sahitya Kala .
Parishad, became an annual event till 1994 which was witnessed by thousands of
general public and school children.

PARVATIYA KALA KENDRA
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
President

o

‘

Smt. Naima Upreti

Vice Presidents
General Secretary

B .M. Shah, V.M. Badola
H.S. Rana

Secretary

D.C. Ioshi

Joint Secretaries

Gopal Singh, C.M. Papnai

Treasurer
It. Treasurer

K. D. Satyawali
C.D. Tiwari

Members

A.S. Kumaoni, B.C. Upreti,
Bhairab Tiwari, Dayanand Anant,
D.K. Pant, D.S. Bajeli,
Harish Kargeti, M.C. Ioshi,
M.S. Mehra, Smt. Puspa Bagga,
Smt. Sushila Badola.

