About the novel
Mirza Mohammad Hadi “Mirza” wrote Umrao Jan Ada in 1899 under the assumed name
“Mirza Ruswa”. That was the name which brought him acclaim. The Urdu novel had its
beginnings in the reformist novels of Deputy Nazir Ahmed and took a definite turn towards
realism with Urnrao Jan, a pioneer of the modern novel. Ruswa's famous contemporaries,

Abdul Haleem Sharar and Pandit Ratan Nath Sarshaar were writing their masterpieces at the
time when Ruswa wrote Akhtari Begum, Zaat—e—Shareef and Shareefzada. But it was Umrao Jan
which gave so much m'khar (clarity) to the art of the novel, that it is regarded as muraqqa
(portfolio) of its times. Ruswa wrote about the art of rzovel-m'jari in Zaat—e—Shareef:
Our novels are neither tragedy nor comedy. Our heroes are killed neither by sword nor do
they commit suicide. There are no meetings or partings. Our novels should be considered
histories of our times.

The fact that Ruswa decided to write about the life of a courtesan, regarded in the social order
both as the lowest of lowliest, and as the repository of culture, puts him in an ambivalent
relation to the subject, especially given his own modest origin and itinerent career. An even
more complex relation of author to character is suggested in a text called Nal-ai-Ruswa (Ruswa’s
Complaint). Here Ruswa describes his relationship to Sophia Augustine, a woman of AngloFrench parentage, recounting it as if in Urnrao's voice — an Urnrao revenging herself on Ruswa
for having made her life public. Although most of his contemporaries were writing heroine
centred novels, Ruswa's treatment of a subject as vulnerable as the life of an educated courtesan
is sympathetic as it is imbued with the fullness of life. Urnrao attracts men by the refined
culture she embodies rather than by her charm or beauty. At the time it was not unusual for
women to write poetry and some of them, writes M Garcin de Tassy in Histoire de la litterature
_ Hindouie et Hindustani, were "beauties of the bazaar”; de Tassy, in fact, enumerates 71 female

authors from sources such as Mohamrned Fasiluddin Rang's Tazkirat—e—Baharistan-i—Naaz, (Meerut,

1864)
How Ruswa, a man who performed scientific experiments in his indigenous laboratory, and
sold off household goods to buy lab equipment, could delve into the mind of his protagonist
and create real life Lucknow-wallas on the canvas of the post-gadar period, testifies to his
versatile genius. While his basic philosophy continues to have contemporary relevance, the
novel naturally stops at a certain point of time. However, it is worth noting that from the time
of its Writing till today several different versions exist, making it a text of interpolations. The
present adaptation by Geetanjali Shree and Anuradha Kapur weaves the modern woman and
her gender consciousness into the matrix of the novel. Urnrao, therefore, while shown every bit
the Lucknow courtesan, is equally a contemporary voice. Embellishing Ruswa's gift to Urnrao
of a robust liveliness, the stage adaptation moves right into out lives, and at the end of the play
we lip-sync the last line of Urnrao :
Ab to hum karvat badalte hain (Now, I just move from side to side).

—— Syeda S. Hameed.

