About the music
When Anuradha Kapur asked me to work with her on the music for her production of Urnrao Jan
Ada, I saw this as an opportunity to work with the music of the tawazfs —— thumri and ghazal — in a
meaningful way, in a way that I hoped would ask questions about the relationship between women's
lives, their life-styles, and their more consciously practised art-styles. This work was shared by Amit
Bararia, who brought to it his understanding of music, and also of the image, the Visual, in still and

cinematic photography. Without his ideas and input, this work would not have taken the shape it
has. I owe, too, a deep debt to my guru, Srnt. Naina Devi, for her encouragement and guidance. Sadly,
she is not with us to see this work completed. Many thanks to Shri Vitthal Rao for composing the
music for the ghazal "Shab-e—furqat”; also to Shri V.A.K. Ranga Rao for generously sharing with me
his collection of old records.
In the novel Urnrao Jan Ada, the protagonist often speaks of the process of learning, and of the thrill
of performance. It is, one realises, their acquiring of skills, and their claim to the magical space of
performance that enabled women like Urnrao Jan to percieve themselves as actors in the stories of
their lives, authors of their destinies. This is borne out by many discussions with elderly singers. So,
in attempting to understand Urnrao, her life, her story, and the ways in which she is represented, it
is important to understand her art-form. The novel portrays Urnrao as a writer of Urdu poetry;
throughout the book there are also references to music—raga-sangeet, and to the songs of the thumri
repertoire. Bega Jan, for instance, she whose face is pitted with pock marks, enthralls Urnrao with her
singing of "Ihoola kine dam”. Women like Urnrao were trained in raga-sangeet; their performances,
however, were primarily of thumri and ghazal. In memory and the imagination, therefore, thumri and
the tawaif are inextricable linked.
As we know it today, thumri is the product of the regional medieval courts, successor states to the
Mughal empire. Musicians and rnusicologists are often concerned with identifying the “authentic”
voice of a form. In the case of thumri, while authenticity is claimed by accessing a distant past (Via
references to texts like Natya Shastra), this “authentic” is named and located in the early years of this
century. Inevitaby so because this is when the earliest recordings of music become available. In fact,
thumri as sung and performed today (and claimed as authentic) is much removed stylistically and
performatively even from the style and performances of women like Gauhar Jan.
The names that are cited as .the authentic voices of thumri gayaki —— Moujuddin Khan, Bhaiya Ganpat
Rao, Gauhar Jan etc. — these voices, significantly, sing and shape the gayaki at precisely that historical
moment when a western, colonial world View, with all its notions of class, morality, women's status,
aesthetics and realism had burst upon the Indian scene. It seems to me that thumri, as we imagine it

today, was being reformulated, and performing traditions were both assirnilating and contesting
western ways of seeing and hearing, western ways of understanding the relationship between
performer and audience.
'
'
A form like thumri is the coming together of several elements that comprise its text— sound, the
word, movement, and the context of performance. Stylistically, thumri draws from the desi music of
the purab region, refining it and "classicising" it to cater to courtly tastes.
It is characterised by typical methods of voice production and delivery, and the use of specific musical
ornamentations. These are considered to highlight thumri’s emotional, dramatic quality. Because it
emphasises bhav, emotion, thumri allows for the mixing of ragas in order to fully explore these

emotions. Musically, meaning is created and communicated through the nuanced use of both swar and
bol, in what is called the "1701 banao" style. This style of performance focusses as much on the word as
it does on swar. 801 and swar are, along with movement, simultaneously developed narratives.
From oral and written accounts it appears that till as recently as the early years of this century, the

mode of rendering a thumri included both musical and danced elaborations and improvisations. The

