artist — more often than not a tawaif— elaborated the bandish in terms of its musical and poetic
possibilities (“bol banana”), and also moved about the performance space as she elaborated the poetry

of the bandish ("bhav batamz”) through the techniques of "ada" (movements of hands, torso) and "hav' bhav" (facial expressions). In between verses, she might also have danced, the dazzling footwork of

"Kathak", to the accompaniment of laggi (doubled tempo) on the tabla. This thumri had therfore a
strong visual aspect — the tawaif’s body was ineradicably present in the performance. The visuality
of thumri is both in the escapably material body of the performer, but it is also present in the iconic
body that the text (simultaneously musical sound, Words and movement) creates.
Our intention here has been not so much to create an "authentic" musical text as to create a parallel
text that echoes and interrogates oUr ways of reading the lives of women, women performers
especially, as also this particular script, the performances of these particular actors. Such a musical
text hopes to do more than evoke, build an atmosphere, illustrate action, or uncover a hidden or

unexpressed meaning. We wanted, first of all, that it should signify thumri itself, the form and the
performance. The musical text had therefore to interact with its history, with the stage space, sets,
speech and movement; it had moreover to do this by foregrounding the dramatic nature and
conversational tone of thumri gayaki, and the fact that in this gayaki, decoration, embellishment,
"nakhra" are the form, not extra elements, added-on elements. We wanted too that rather than being

just a pleasant background sound, the music should pose questions regarding music and art, forms
३ of representation, gender and society.
Thus, for instance, we trace thumri '5 story and the stories that are told about it — a parallel narrative
to Ruswa's about Umrao, and Umrao's own. We do this through the references to film music,

whereby we trace thumri’s story from darbar and mehfil, through popular forms like nautanki to the
world of commercial recordings and Bombay films, and the creation of a "modern", "Indian" cultural

representation. Through film music, we also suggest the stories of women who might be Umrao's
daughters — those wonderful actresses of our childhood days, whose beauty and presence still haunt
1
us, and who defined for us and our generation, our ideas of love and romance.
At other places the music attempts to create, to become spaces and times. This echoes Geetanjali's script
and Anuradha's dramaturgy where the word is made ﬂesh; it becomes that which it signifies, while
simultaneously going beyond it. We use the baramasa "Nayi jhoolan" in this way — to signify Faiz Ali; to
signify also his nostalgia for the pastoral charm of Farrukhabad, and a listening Umrao's for the remembered innocence of her Faizabad childhood. Our use of baramasa in this fashion also suggests that this
nostalgia is at the heart of thumri performance — perhaps of all our engagement with "traditional" art
forms. In an earlier time, just so might a newly-urbanised taluqdar have listened nostalgically to a baramasa;
today's listeners nostalgically imagine a world of beauty and romance, now lost forever.
Inevitably, because we have refused the notion of authenticity, we have had to address it head—on.

We tried to deal with this issue by juxtaposing, without hierarchising, music from different sources
and times — film music, representations from film of thumrz', ghazals, Begum 'Akhtar, Kamla Iharia,

and ourselves.

'

As I understand thumri, it is a form that has all the detail, nuanced Vision, and intimacy of address that
one associates with miniature painting. As I understand it, thumri is characterised also by its ability
— desire perhaps? — to extend itself, to make its boundaries ﬂuid, by discovering many layers of
meaning in a single sound, word or gesture, by dwelling on detail, and most of all by questioning our
notions about identity, whether of ragas, moods, or of self-and-other. These ideas, I felt to be at the

heart of Geetanjali's script, Anuradha's direction and Nilima Sheikh and S. Badrinarayanan's stage
design. Fortunately then, we were together in this task of developing a musical text for this play.
— Vidya Rao

