५८८ "

,क्या ३३८

,2 दृड्डे/

"३ ४ ”few?” = x1. ज्ञ' १ free a!

3w
"३ , .
U ate/{e

CAMUS ALBERT (1913—1960)

३ rench journalist, essayist, novelist, and dramatist. He was born on November 7, 1913, in Mondovi,

Constantine Department, Algeria. After his father, an agricultural worker, was killed in World
War 1, his mother, of Spanish descent, moved to Algiers. There, while she worked as an servant,
Camus attended community schools and in 1923 won a scholarship for the Lyee’e el’ Alger. To earn
pocket money, he spent his spare time working at a racetrack. In 1930, the year of his graduation, it
was discovered that he had tuberculosis. Nevertheless, he went on to the University of Algiers, where
he majored in philosophy while working at various jobs to support himself. He was married in 1933
and divorced in 1934, joined the Communist party, organised an amateur theatrical group, Le Theatre
a'e. Pal/ail, and toured Algeria with the theatre wing of Radio Algiers. By 1935 he had received his
degree in philosophy, but in 1937 he was too ill to take his doctoral examinations. Beginning in that
year he became associated as actor and director with a theatrical group known as L ’Equipe. Later, he
went to France and spent about a year in the Savoy mountains recuperating from an attack of
tuberculosis. During this period he was inspired by his reading of Suetonius’s Liz/e5 ofthe Caesar's to
write his first play, Caligula, which was not, however, to be produced until 1945.
Returning to Algiers, Camus began to work as an journalist for L ’Alger Re’puhlieain. In 1939 he tried
to enlist in the army but was rejected because of his health. The next year he married and went to Paris, I
Where he worked for Paris-Soir. After the fall of France, he returned to Algeria and for the following
two years taught in a private school in Oran. Back in Paris in 1942, he joined the Resistance and
published The Stranger (L ’e’tranger), a short philosophical novel that was to establish him as one of the
leaders of the postwar French literary scene. The Misuiitleistandiizg, also translated as Cross Purposes (Le
malentena’u, 1944), was the ﬁrst of his plays to be produced, and the same year, as editor in chief, he
published the first issue of the then—clandestine newspaper Comhat, which he edited until 1947.
The publication of Camus’s second novel, The Plague (La peste, 1947), was an international literary
event. The allegorical theme, in which a city in the grip of an epidemic is compared to a country under
totalitarian rule, was taken up in different form in the play State ofSiege (L ’e’tat ale siege, 1948). Camus
toured South America in 1950, but the following year he was forced by illness to give up all activities
except writing. In 1953, he broke with his friend Jean—Paul Sartre after the latter had criticized his
philosophical essay The Rehel (L ’homme re’volte’, 1951), an analysis of the phenomenon of revolution,

on what Camus regarded as narrow Communist party lines.
The publication of The Fall (La chute, 1956), a short novel, was taken by some critics as an indication

that Camus had reached a new stage in his ideological development and was trying to establish for a
guilt-stricken war generation a new basis for action. Camus received the Nobel Prize for Literature in

1957 and the same year published a short-story collection entitled Exile and the Kingdom (L 'exil et le
royaume). He was killed in an automobile accident near Sens on January 4, 1960.

