awed/wk wM/Wlmﬁon/

o‘y’w/éwy
Natya Shodh Sansthan has three—fold objectives
before it. Being a research institute, it's first
objective is to build up a rich library and valuable
archive of theatre in India dealing with theatre
related activities in various parts ofthe country in
different languages. Working on Research
Projects, holding Seminars on important
subjects, arranging Programmes and
Documenting important events are regular
activities ofthe Sansthan.

Sansthan’s second objective is to develop into an
academic institution, supplementing the higher
education at Post—graduate and Research levels.
Sansthan has got valuable information and
material in it‘s repository and educational
institutions can be immensely beneﬁted by them.

Both the aspects of research work - collecting the
source material and studying the same are given
and
equal importance at Sansthan. Old
contemporary information and material is
collected from the individuals. Extensive
interviews with more than 400 individuals from
all over the country, both urban and rural areas,

The third objective before Sansthan is to widen
it's field of activities and reach the common
people in and around Kolkata, and also suburban
towns and villages with the aim of making the
people aware of the rich heritage that we have in
our store and use the same for improving physical
and mental health.

provide important datas and serve as authentic
source material. Books on Master Fida Hussain
and Habib Tanvir in Hindi by Pratibha Agrawal,
’Sekaler Theatre 0 Beshbhusha’ (Costume
designing in Bangla Theatre) by Debnarayan
Gupta, a booklet on Manmatha Roy by Debashis
Roychaudhury are based on our source materials.
Two more books related to Folk theatre in Bengal
are in press and some research papers on District
Theatre are getting ready for publication.

Folders on the works of Khaled Chowdhury,
Shyamanand Jalan, Mohit Chattopadhyay and
Ashok Mukhopadhyay are the
results of the work of the inhouse research team.

Seminar .' Plays in u rzulionalpers'pcaivwRound 721hli' 3
Amol Pulckur. Samik Bamlyupuzlliim' & Mohit Chattopadhyay

'Rangavarta', the research
oriented theatre bulletin
published between 1986 to
1997 edited by Samik
B a n d y o p a d h y a y was
acclaimed as an important
contribution towards the
स्ताज्जह्माध्याह्माक्शाणास्वाफ्लाक्शा
widening ofthe theatre horizon
Firs! issue ufRangavurta January [986
ofthe readers.

