Nil/60 W0 ”/1?”er

aux/i0 zawu/zlny.»

(nu/ﬂint.»

an 3 mmmﬂ/mmw (/IMJ,
(um/('12 «MM/lea amz/ J/loo/J'

Audio Recordings at Sansthan are available in
three forms - Gramaphone Disc Records, Audio
Cassettes and Spools. Gramaphone Discs date
back to 1902 and contain instrumental music,
songs, skits and recording of plays in various
Indian languages. Voices of great actors and
singers are preserved in these.
Audio Cassettes are the biggest store of
information and data at N SS . Recording of plays,
songs, recitations, discourses and discussions and

interviews throw light on various aspects of
theatre history, practice and practitioners. A lot of
recordings originally on discs and spools are
transferred on Audio Cassettes for easy handling.
Spools are comparatively new addition to
Sansthan's Archives. Recording of plays, songs,
music and sound effects of the productions of
some old and important groups are available on
spools.

Video recordings being just a few decades old,
contain the recent events only. The oldest
recording at the Sansthan is that of the Silver
Jubilee celebration (1981) of Anamika, a theatre
group of Kolkata. 9 hours' recording contains
excerpts from plays, interviews and proceedings
of seminar. This was followed by more than 20
hours of documentation of The International
Seminar on Indian Dance Tradition and Modern
Theatre, an important event organised by Padatik,
Kolkata in 1983. Rabindranath Thakur, Sornbhu
Mitra, Laurence Olivier, Marcel Marceau, Utpal

Dutt, Shyamanand Jalan, Girish Karnad and
many others can be seen on the small screen in
video section. Commercial and private recording
of plays and musical soirees in English, Bengali,
Hindi and Marathi are also available with
Sansthan.
Sansthan has two documentary films on Prithviraj
Kapoor and Gubbi Verranna, the actors along with
Pakhira, a one-hour ﬁlm on the works of Badal

Sircar, the playwright and propagator of the
Third—Theatre movement

'सकाल पेपर्स ट्रस्ट

५' gm .

प्रकाशित करीत आहे

W”

एक बहुमूल्य “were; ठेवा I

नू

l . . n.Awar pm.nu!Ion

Meglmadbadh
, Katya

Epic ८
शाक्लैशां Mudhuw-Im

Vijay 7l'ndu/kur and Prati'bhu .Algruu‘u/
an the [21/1 Foundation ('c/ebrumm u! N S. S त्मा l 9, 7. I 993

ﬂu

.

m

१

