DIRECTOR’ NOTE
Almost 250 years ago, in a remote village KHEJARLJeI'n the
estwhile Jodhpur state in Rajasthan, 363 men and women sacriﬁced
' -eir lives to prevent the cutting of the trees. I was inspired by this
lfless sacrificed and sincerely felt the sacrifice of these men 250 years
. . ck is far more contemporary in today’s life when environment has
. come very important. it is because of the contemporaneous of the
- - crifice that inspired me to dramatise it for the stage.
In today’s world where environmental pollution has become imporo
ant and '5 placed on the tap of the world agenda, where people are
. ware and sorried about felling of the trees in India Brazil and many
. . er developing countries, where the new generation is not concerned
. r only gives lip-service, where for the governments and many Interna°onal agencies enviroMental pollution most of the times becomes a
प्रात - ow business, such a non-violence and tragic human sacriﬁce by a
uandful of villagers of a remote village 250 years ago becomes very
॰ elevant for the society of today.
Vishnois even today worship the trees and donot kill animals speo
-'ally deer, and donot allow anyone else to do so. I have made an attempt
o weive together the complete way of life of the VLshnois in this play.
- eir rituals, beliefs, traditions whichare unique and are even practised

oday. Such as, being hindus they donot cremate their deads but hurry
. em. The scientists are of the opinion today, that the custom of the .
. urial is better than cremetion.
'
The style of the production is going to be realistic. The style of pagri
ofdifferent people, their costumes, the colour of the dress of the women,
'ewellery, props of both men and women will be of that particular
:0

tiOd.

l have tried to bring the religious feeling and teachings of Jamesh—

'ar, who is the Guru of the Vishnois. H's teaching which preached the
Hindu-Muslim unity, is going to be one of the important aspect of the
play, which today is the burning issue.
Ofcourse the rich cultural heritage of Rajasthan, its full colour and
plendour, its folk music and dance will form an integral part of the
,. roduct ion.

।

The main purpose of the paly is to show the human sacrifice of the l
people Of 250 years ago to the generation of today. To show that how a
handful of unarmed men and women sacrificed their lives to save the
trees, because they sincerely loved them. It was not a mere show. When
a situation is sincerely and genuinely felt, then the action taken is far
more effective then discussions on the round table organised by the
nternational agencies.

