MILLENNIUM Post | New Delhi l Wednesday, November 18, 2015

Th ﬁve dayfestival which c 711prlses offolk performances andfolk theatre by
18 groupsjrom 13 states will converge on the campus ofNational School of
Drama to present the cultural heritage ofthe country

0 U R CORRESPONDENT
ith the arrival of Fall. comes the
time to soak in the warmth of the
ongoing events in the national
Capital and every year the
National School of Drama campus turns into a
me a ground. which attracts children ofall ages
to participate in the yearly children's testlval 'Bal
Sangarn'.
’[his year t ou. vibrant colours, myriad clothes.
different languages. soulful music. ethnic dances
and other activrties from 13 lndizn states will
come together this year. Folk perfors .
rnnnces and folk theatre by 18 groups
will be presented during the9th edition of
‘53] Sangam’, which begins from November 21
to 25 The ﬁve day festival. with free entry. will
present performances at the National School of
Drama campus atMandi House.
To add to the festivities, longmms. clowns.
dhol drummers, tight rope walker, jugand band
performers. acrobats.jugglcrs, behrupiyas, magi cians. kacchi-ghodi pcrtormers, kathputli exponents, and many more ' converge on the
campusof National School ofDrama to present
tothe young mindsthe cultural heritage of the
country which is fast depleting and need to be

showcased to the young urban Indians,
A highlight of this year‘s ‘Bnl Sangam’ will be
the regional folk performances such as Chhau
from West Bengal. Yakshugnnn from Karanataka, Bhand Father from lammu 3t Kashmir and
Rims Leela from Manipuri This. together with

ﬁve workshops on Paper Puppet making. Origami. Madhubani paintings. Mask Mal-ring, Pot‘
tel Craft. will prove to be very educating and
enriching experience for the young children of
national Capital.
'1anmore aboutthis year's edition of ‘Bal
Sangam'. Abdul Latithatann, Chief, TIE Co.
said. 'BalSaugarn is an effort to bring folk and
urban face to face, Where thereare children today
lost in the intemct and technology. TIE festival
bring; the open and varied folk to the kids of
today. amalgamating the past and the future in
the present.”
Mnny schoolboys and schoolgirls of Delhi,
including those from Mayoor Public School.
rlamia Middle School. Red Rosses Public School,
Bengali Boys 5L Secondary. Hingli Founda' "'५ tion. Andhra Society, will be bringing different components offolk culture to stage to
this year‘s festival.
Wanton Kcndre. Director. National School of
Dramasaid. "this ‘BaJ Sangam' is anunique effort
to exposethe children and youngcitizens to real
strengthof Indian folkand traditionalperforming
arts. It is also aneffort to understandthe mots of

.

३१2८.

Also during this year's 'Bal Sanng the NSD
authorities will be making special arrangements
through various NCO working with undcrprivrlcgcd children and social organisations to readi
out and invite children from thenot so privrlegcd
class so as to give them the due privtlege to experience and beenriched by this long awaited festival of National School of Drama for children.

WHEN: November 21 to 25
". lng of Indian value system and way ofleodlng
life only will help us mark our presence on the WHERE: National School of Drama cumglobal platform. 'Bal Sangam is about shat:
ing. learning. teaching. enriching and gain» pus, Mandi House
ing conﬁdence for showing our indigenous TIMINGS: 4pm to 8pm
cultural identity while lacing the globe."
. I ~, T v: - 77*. 3—1,..- . i:—.—.(—- my,rip-m: गंत्रुज्जमु'झाश्वहूँ S च्वंदुदुबुणाफुग्नच्चाफ्लॉ'दृvat—"tars
'
दृ १.८५ ८८ —
.. .

