०1००५०५3००१००2००2८०2००१००१००५'०३०र्ककैकैकैकैकैकैकैफैफैफैर्ककैकैर्द'फैकैकैकैकैफैर्द'कैर्थ'कैकैकैकैकैकैर्दर्ण'कैकैकैशैकैन्धीकैफैइफै"3०

FROM THE DIRECTOR OF “GINGERBREAD LADY”
Rehearsals have ended ; the reality of the production is here. Casting was done
during the monsoon ; now Delhi is drying out, the nights are cooler and Gingerbread
Lady is opening. These last hectic days I’ve been saying to myself: "run, run, as
fast as you can ; you can’t catch me, I’m the Director of Gingerbread Lady.” However,
I would like to share some of my thoughts and feelings about the play with you, and the
experience of working with this very ﬁne cast.

Neil Simon of Odd Couple and Plaza Suite fame needs no introduction. His characters,
through the New York idiom of Schraﬁts, Bloorningdales, Saks, Manhattan, and Central
Park, have taken the frustrations and enigrnas of modern man and portrayed almost

classic everyrnan
sal message.

Gingerbread Lady is another of Simon’s New York plays with a univer-

I ﬁnd Neil Sirnons’ vehicles very exciting, and I hope some of this enthu-

siasm for “Gingerbread Lady" will filter through to you.
Working with this cast has been very stimulating. They have stood up to the pressure
of nine

(9) weeks of very exacting and constant rehearsals.

It is not easy in Delhi to

make the world of Manhattan’s silk stocking district come alive and keep this illusion
going. it is not easy to take the roles of sophisticated, creative, frustrated, middle-aged
New Yorkers and make them real people.

However, in these last nine (9) weeks the

world of the Gingerbread Lady has come alive for us.
The Gingerbread Lady HERSELF is portrayed by Maura Moynihan who has been able
to generate excitement in a very natural way. Her objectives as an actress are “REAL”.
Maura is a creative and perceptive young lady, and despite

being a teen-ager, she IS EVY

MEARA. Maura has “lived” the role ever since she won the audition. It is my pleasure
in introducing Maura Moynihan to the Delhi Community and a hearty welcome to Maura
as a new member of the “THESPIANS”. The experience of working with Mark Vollrner
has been extremely gratifying. The role of JIMMY PERRY has called for an exceptional
type, capable of feeling and experiencing artistically what it must be like to be at the
ripe age of forty (40) and still be professionally disgruntled. I think Mark has been
bitten by the “theatre bug”. Linda Finlay, Debbie Daugherty, Kiran Mehta, and Sanjay
Gupta have been equally as creative and are all real “TROOPERS”. Debbie as POLLY,

Evy’s daughter, becomes a sensitive counterpoint to her vulnerable mother. Linda stands
up to the challenge of creating TOBY, the tragic and “close” friend of Evy.

The role of

LOU TANNER, Evy's former lover is taken by Sanjay Gupta who gives a solid performance
as the aging hip musician. And Kiran Mehta creates with validity and tenderness the
part of MANUEL, the delivery boy who knows all about the “injustices” in the world.
Any director can be driven up the wall by sticky problems with tickets, publicity,
costumes, and sets.

I am very happy to report that l'rn still in my right mind.

However,

my sanity is due in a large part to the cooperation of the “OTHER” cast : ADVERTISERS,
FRIENDS. PARENTS OFCAST, SET CREWS. PROP MEN AND STAGE DESIGNERS.
As always, the support and enthusiasm that the Delhi Community has always given
me for productions at A.E.S. these past ﬁve years, is a source of energy and morale.
Without you, we would never have made it.
Respectfully,

८3३" K 7/4719:
JAMES R. PEPPERLING, JR.

Meow ++++e++MMMM + +4»:-+ 4»?M ९०८०-४०: : Mकृ ~z~: ०१-: :: ९००१०4- :.1. : .3. :.3. :: :
11

