a
,u : a i I घ है W i I i 1 s y झ n v . ५ . . . . s . r . . a _

WHEN: Featuring some ofthe
'7' >

SSE
. ave

थीं

Are You
Ready to Ride
Pegasus?
Get ready for some heady
campus fun at CMC when
हुँ
Pegasus comes, says

हुँ

BlessyMathew Prasad

5 best talents in the country,the
1;: fest is from October 2631

TICKE”1 PR {C13 8: Registration
per person per event is 3250 plus
जिमी for every extra event

hristian Medical College, Vellore, is most
often known for it’s quality of medical
education. But, there is much more to
this college than just surgeries and stethoscopes. Every year,since the 19803, students of CMC
Vellore get together to organise what they consider
the greatest inter-collegiate event in this part of the
world, PEGASUS.
And true to its name, it is one surreal event.
What once started off a couple of decades ago as
a platform for students to showcase their sporting
talent, it has since grown by leaps and bounds to
encompass culturals, music, theatre and arts, the
annual UG research conference Cognitio, and the
ﬁercely competitive mediquiz, Epidauria. Year
after year, students from colleges in Chennai and
Bangalore get their groove on and head to Vellore
to ensure they get a piece of the action. One of the
most impressionable things at Pegasus is the fact

. vino,» 05mm 9597423561
Jayakar Boon‘965 54 25478

that out-of-towners are accomodated in the aged,
old buildings that constitute the dorms that CMC is
instantly famous for. And so, whether it’s for some
thing as small as a literary and debating event or
for something more high energy as the rock show,
Pegasus is a draw for students of all sensibilities.
The fact that it is organised and conceptualised by
medicos does not take away from its cool factor in
the least — if anything, the planning is done with
clinical precision, so it’s all the better for people
making the trip.
This fest draws the attention of innumerable colleges spread across the nooks and corners of India.
with about 150 colleges and 5000 students participating every year in the plethora of events avai1~
ablei So whichever part of the country you are in,
just book a ticket. grab your backpack. and come
experience this enthralling enigma. As their catchphrase goes, “leave the world behind".

