TH A N A

THEKE

ASHCHHI

A ' Synopsis

The play commences with a note of contentment prevailing in the drawing room of
Chandra Madhab Sen, a rich businessman, whose only daughter Sheila has just been
engaged to Amiya Bose, the only son of a richer businessman. When Chandra
Madhab Sen is dreaming of still higher attainments in the business and the political
circles and expounding his philosophy of success, the arrival of a Sub-Inspector of
Police brings a rift in the prevailing harmony of the evening. It transpires that Tinkari
Haldar has come to hold an enquiry in connection with a death by suicide of a young girl
named Sandhya Chakravorty, which tragic event reveals that all the members ofthe
affluent family had been instrumental in leading the helpless girl to take the drastic
action step by step.
Chandra Madhab had dismissed the girl employed at one of the institutions owned
by him when she led a demand for a very small rise in wages. Sheila complained
against the girl employed by a chain store merely because her vanity was pricked. That
cost her the job. Sandhya changed her name hoping for better luck and took up a job
at a massage clinic. Son of another richman wanted to take advantage of her lowly
position at the clinic and Amiya Bose for a time saved her and gave her protection. His
fancy over her was very short lived and they parted company. Tapas Sen, the only son
of Chandra Madhab, in a mood of drunkenness led the girl to a place. After a few
months it was known that she was going to be a mother. The girl refused to take help
from Tapas when she came to know that the money was not earned by him but misappropriated. The girl sought help from a Society for protection of women of which Mrs.
Roma Sen, wife of Chandra Madhab, was the President. When the girl disclosed the
identity of the man before Roma Sen. she was greatly enraged and made the committee

to turn down the request for help. She had by then reached the dead end and suicide
was the only course left to her.

Tinkari Haldar holds each one of them responsible and says that this is not an
isolated tragedy but millions of such girls with aspiration and hope are crushed in life
through callousness. All that is happening to each one of them is the responsibility of one
and all. Tinkari Haldar then departs.
Gradually the members of the family try to rehabilitate their shattered conscience.
Amiya Bose brings the information that there is no such Sub-Inspector as Tinkari Haldar.
That is further conﬁrmed by a Police Ofﬁcer in their family. A telephone at the hospital
reveals that there has been no case of suicide during the last three days. Chandra Madhab
never bothered about the actual death of the girl of no consequence. But he was scared of
the scandal it would bring. Relieved from that fear he tries to restore the atmosphere of
placidity as at the opening scene without much response from others._

A telephone bell rings, Chandra Madhab listens to the call. While he replaces the
receiver he announces that a girl has just died due to suicide and a Sub-Inspector is
coming from a police station to hold an enquiry.

