SOLILOQUY
By Utpal Dutt

Edmund Jones left the theatre in disgust because modern drama had restricted
itself to problems of coffee-stirring and whether the father likes his eggs hard or _ soft
at breakfast. Gordon Craig resigned himself to a life of solitude and began writing
Meyerhold had his theatre shut down, Toller shot himself
his bitter autobiography.
The protagonists of high drama have been successfully
and Vakhtangore died young.
d i8p er sed .

And since the ﬁeld is clear, the “realists” hold sway, except for a Brecht here and
a Gorelik there. And drama consequently now means whether the boy meets the girl,
or the girl chases the boy, whether they lose each other—tragedy, or they ﬁnd each
other—comedy. The characters now do not soliloquize, they speak as in real life, or
The characters do
what the copperbottomed bourgeois thinks they speak in real life.
not do things, they behave. They do not strangle Desdemona, they merely sigh and say
“There, now, you’ve broken up my home”.

The question, however, remains whether this is an adequate portrayal of life.
Whether Mr. Noel Coward’s natural men and women capture truth with the same
Intensity as Shakespeare’s big, larger than life heroes. Whether “Hay Fever” is more

real than “Twelfth Night.”
If realism were merely a photograph of externals, Mr. Coward and Mr. Ben
Hecht and Mr. Tennessee Williams would hold their own against Fry, Elliot and
If realiSm includes man’s innermost thoughts, his spiritual experiences,
Shakespeare.
his outlook on life, his attitude, mental as well as expressed, his dreams, his unexpressed
desires, then the drawing-room comedians of Drury Lane are wasting their time (0,
really, Judith Bliss, I love you, but cannot marry you i) and the sooner they quitted
the legitimate theatre the better it is for all concerned.

Language today has lost a lot of its picturesque quality. One does not
serenade one’s lady below her window, nor are duels allowed. Man has become reticent,
sophisticated. It is unfashionable to show one’s emotions. It is just not done. The
closest you come to saying to a lady you would die without her is to open a conversation on the weather. One does not ﬂing one’s arms about any more; the city is too
crowded for that. Naturally, modern drama, true to its pretensions of realism, brings
these dull, stolid, silent bank-clerks lock stock and barrel onto the stage. And the stage
becomes crowded with characters who speak little, express little of what they feel and
how fearfully boring it all is !

Now more than ever we should explore man’s inner thoughts, and make our characters speak out in stirring soliloquies how they react to events and conﬂicts. The audience
has the right to demand awe and majesty and grandeur in the theatre, and you cannot give

them to him if you limit yourself to the calculative l.fe of the present day middle class.
Before anything a man does, there is a long process of what he thinks; what he does is
restricted by the requirements of fashion and custom and middle class ethics; what he
thinks is usually free, powerful, primitive, passionate. Modern drama basing itself on
what he does has become bound by everybody’s reality. If it were to invade man’s

mental world, an inﬁnite variety of unexploited material would come within its view and
modern classics would be born.
But the how] goes up at once that

it

would be “unrealistic” to

make the

