AN ‘ AMATEUR’S PROBLEMS
By

J. D. ’I‘ytler
I

The question is often asked why it is that anyone should want to act particularly
an amateur who does not make a living out of it. When the standard is low and the opportunities of taking part in theatricals are limited, it is perhaps a harmless activity which is fun
for all who take part and provides an evening’s entertainment for their friends.

But when the amateur performs in public and under the hard glare of criticism——
quite often adverse—what is it that makes him go on doing it? It is a difﬁcult question to
answer. Partly it may be because it is fun belonging to a group of people all doing the same
thing; more likely it is because in spite of the inconveniences of repeated and lengthy rehearsals, he really enjoys acting.
So, he enjoys acting; but enjoyment calls for responsibility or it is mere indulgence.
The actor, once he has undertaken to play a part, has to forget himself and think only of his
responsibilities towards everyone concerned with its production—his fellow players, the
author, the audience and his director.

The last is perhaps the most important and often the most difﬁcult, particularly for an
amateur who has had a fair amount of experience. The more he thinks he knows, the more
he is irked by direction. Yet it is only the director who can see the play develop as a whole
and who can visualise properly the way each character should move and speak his lines. An
amateur play can frequently be branded as badly directed just because there are some players
who simply will not be directed.
The responsibility to the author lies in the player’s interpretation of the character
whom the author has created. Here again cooperation with the director is needed, but if
the player is to portray the character as a living person he must study very carefully the
kind of person the author has created and must live the part; for the time being he must
really be that kind of person. He ceases for a while to be A.B.—himself—but becomes
C.D.———the character in the play.

Too much consciousness of the audience can have a shattering effect upon an amateur,
but the actor must never forget that he is interpreting the part to the audience. Some audiences, as we all know well are responsive and some are not, and a responsive audience always
helps the players. At the same time it is the players who have to evoke the response, and if
the players have lost themselves, their own individuality, and have become immersed in their
part, the response will come, provided the play is good. Acting a play in a vacuum, with no
audience, would have no meaning, and what makes all the difference between acting in a
ﬁlm and in a play is that, years make in the latter case, there is always the living action and
reaction between the players and the audience. Good players make the audience feel that
they too are actually experiencing what the players are portraying. The audience may enjoy
a play without that experience, and that is mere escapism. Great acting never stops at that;

