'

'

SISIR BHADURI
Reminiscences of a Friend
By Am al Home

It was in July, 1910 that the portals of the University of Calcutta and the
Calcutta University Institute were simultaneously opened for me. And it was on the
ﬁrst day of my joining the Institute that I came to know Sisir Bhaduri. I was a
“Freshman”, _ and he was a “Sophomore”—one of the most brilliant in the galaxy of
Post—graduate students among whom Were Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, Kshitis Chandra
Sen and Sudhindra Kumar Halder. He was easily the most popular Junior Member
of the Institute with his wide reading, ready wit and charming manners. He took kindly
to me from the very beginning. We shared our love of literature and deep admiration
for Rabindranath.

He soon drew me inside the inner circle of his friends, who

had

formed a small club of their own within the Institute. It came to be known as the
Marigold Club, because it used to meet on the steps of the southern porch of the
premises, then occupied by the Institute, facing a plot, adjoining College Square,
overgrown with rich shrubs of rnarigold. There was no subject under the sun which
was not discussed there, and there was no one who held the attention and admiration
more than Sisir Kumar did in that gathering of ‘student elect’. It was mainly
through his active and powerful support that I could win my election as an Under
Secretary of the Institute in 1911-12. He was more pleased than I was at my success.
His close acquaintance with Shakespeare, whose plays he knew from cover
to cover, was more than evident as he would delight and edif’y us with his magniﬁcent
recitals often followed by critical comments revealing the depth of his knowledge.

There was hardly anyone to match him there except K.C. Sen and SK. Haldar.
Sisir’s love of Bengali dramas was no less. He would give recitals from his
favourite playwrights with equal alacrity, appropriate voice and gestures. It was then
that his friends discovered in him a noted actor in the making. The opportunity soon
came to prove his histrionic talents on the boards of the Calcutta University Institute
with a group of distinguished amateurs drawn from among the Junior Members of the
Institute. Among them who later rose to great distinction and prominence on the public
stage was Naresh Mitra.
I have a vivid recollection of the memorable night in 1911 when the Calcutta
University Institute staged D.L. Roy’s Chandragupta with Sisir as Chanakya and
Naresh as Katyayan. On the front row sat side by side Gooroodas Banerjee,

Benoyendra Nath Sen, Dwijendralal Roy and Dani Babu, who had then created a
sensation in the role of Chanakya on the stage of the Minerva Theatre. I remember
well how he was the cynosure of all eyes assembled in the old hall of the University
Institute, which then formed part of the premises of the Sanskrit College. Very few had
ever seen Dani Babu oﬁ‘ the stage.
Sisir held the stage. The applause that burst out when the curtain dropped
announced the advent of a star of the ﬁrst magnitude on the ﬁrmarnent of the Bengali
stage. At the end of the performance when Sisir came down to receive the blessings
of Gooroodas and Benoyendra Nath and the congratulations of D.L. Roy, Dani Babu
spluttered out his compliments. The famous actor could only say that while he had
played as directed by ‘Bapi’——as he called his great father Girish Chandra Ghosh—Sisir

Babu acted and interpreted the role as he alone could with his education and talents.

