Ten years later Sisir appeared on the public stage.

He made his debut with

“Alamgir” at Madan Theatre followed by D.L. Roy’
s “Sita” in the Eden Gardens
Empire Ex

hibition. Later he had to forsake it for the “Sita” of Jo
ge
sh
Ch
au
dh
ur
i
on the board of the Monomohan Theatre. This play, it
may not be generally known,
largely bore on it the imprint of Sisir. He appeared as Ra
ma in panoplied glory. It
was a revelation. The new Bengali stage had come into be
ing. It was a complete
departure from the traditions of the Bengali Theatre as kn
own till then. He had

oriented it to a new outlook and technique. He took the public
by storm, and it was
\‘Vini Vidi Vici’ for Sisir Bhaduri. From then till only a few years
back Sisir was the
Bengali stage. His popularity knew no bounds. Rabindranath once
told me that the
acceptance of Sisir as an actor and producer by the public of Bengal
was much quicker
than it was in his case as a poet and man of letters.

I shall never forget the ﬁrst night of “Sita” at the Monomohan Theatr
e.
Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das was in the ‘Royal Box’. Nirrnal Chandra
Chunder and
Rakhaldas Banerjee sat on either side of him.
I could see how deeply moved Chittaranjan was—a frequent and critical theatre-goer. He seldom missed an
y ‘ﬁrst night’
while at the bar.
I wrote at his instance for his organ, “Forward” a column-long
review of the performance under the heading

“The Genius of Sisir Bhaduri”. I wish I

had not lost the affectionate letter Sisir wrote me when he read it.

After “Sita” he rose from height to height. He built up a new histrionic shool.
He invested dead plays, dull with age, with a new life and spirit. He chose dramas
written by old playwrights, some dead and some living. He interpreted Rabindranath
and Saratchandra. Whatever he touched he adorned.

I saw him last a few months
Saumyendranath Tagore with a request
the Commemoration Volume published
Chandra Pal.
I met him after many

was almost embittered.

ago when I called on him with my friend
to contribute an article on the Bengali stage to
in connection with the Birth Centenary of Bipin
months. I could see he was very unhappy. He

He would not admit that the Bengali stage had made any

progress in recent years.
He spoke strongly against overloading the Bengali Theatre
with elaborate stagecraft of all kinds.
He wanted to see it in a Simpler garb.
He
deﬁnitely held the view that our stage should hark back to a modiﬁed form of our ageold ‘jatra’.
A most warm-hearted person, his loss will be cherished with grief by all who
had the privilege of his friendship.

