AMATEUR MOVEMENT AND FESTIVALS
By

Ranajit Sen

The desire to express in some particular direction, such as music, drama, art,
literature is only but natural and is found in many people. But only few can

survive the set-backs, disappointments and attain. heights.

Nevertheless, their Sincere

efforts, even if unsuccessful, are praiseworthy. Enwronment, both phySical and mental,
has a tremendous inﬂuence in shaping a person and success is usually achieved by sheer
determination, perseverance and an indomitable spirit of battling against many odds.

This is far from being easy. I have seen many talents dying for want of training and
encouragement. In regard to the successful ones it has. been observed that favourable
circumstances, and to a great extent luck, had a hand in shaping their lives. Life is a
continuous struggle and only those who do not allow themselves to be discouraged by
misfortunes can hope to win.

Against this depressing but inevitable background it is most interesting to watch
the steady growth of the Amateur Dramatic Movement in India. The amateur someties
are handicappd in many ways, particularly for want of ﬁnance, and can hardly hope to
complete with the professional stage and display the same technical excellence. But they
have other qualiﬁcations which distinguish them from the professionals. They are bold
in spirit. They are not satisﬁed with easy imitation of the professional productions.
They have the courage to experiment with new ideas and produce plays without
an eye on the box-ofﬁce. With meagre ﬁnance they often stage interesting plays
proclaiming the old truth that play is the thing, to which sets, costumes, properties
are but accessories. Their accent is on good acting and they delight in working together
as a happy team and presenting plays on a co-operative basis. This spirit is seldom found
in the professional stage.

Soon after the attainment of independence signs of a new development in
amateur dramatic movement was noticed in India. The movement began

rather humbly,

inspired with the object of promoting a correct relationship between Drama and
the Life of the Community. A number of new groups came into existence and started
producing plays, many of whlch dealt with social problems. Often they have been
successful in putting across their ideas and stir the imagination of the people. The
professionals do not look upon this amature movement kindly. But they should realise
that a good relationship with the amateurs is a welcome feature of our dramatic life and
that the amateur stage is a useful ally as a training ground for young actors and an
incentive to intelligent theatre-going.
Despite innumerable difﬁculties the amateurs have and are continuing to progress
steadily. But one major defect has been the lack of impartial and constructive criticism.
Whenever an amateur production has been passable the easy praise of friends and relations
has always dropped a rosy veil over all shortcomings. Easily earned praise has an adverse
effect on progress. Critics should not hesitate to point out the defects and should be
helpful by offering constructive suggestions. The growing popularity of drama competitions and festivals is, however, doing much to counteract this vicious tendency. The
highest art may not often be found as a result of these competftions, but at least it is a
safeguard against the worst and there is no doubt that the general standard of amateur

production has vastly improved among the societies who have taken part in the various
festivals and competitions.

In the capital city the Delhi Natya Sangh and the Song and Drama Division of
A.I.R. are helping in advancing the drama movement by organising regular yearly

