festivals.

For an amateur society entering a festival is indeed an invigorating experience.

It should not matter whether one wins or loses, but these festivals spur the societies on to
better work and bring them into contact with others in the same craft. Thus they get a
wider sense of the amateur movement. New dramatic societies should be eager to test
themselves in these festivals. They will ﬁnd it beneﬁcial. But one word of caution. To
enter a competition merely for the sake of scoring off some other group or for the sake of
winning a trophy is not the correct attitude to be taken. Here I would say that the word
“festival” is preferable to “competition”, and the aim should be a friendly attempt to
sueceed rather than a ﬁght to the ﬁnish.
Some amatures believe that competitive work is beneath their dignity and the
competitive spirit itself is bad and should not be connected with art. There are others
who feel that they are not good enough and should, therefore, leave the competitions to
the more experienced and organised groups. None of these excuses seems to me to be valid.
Entries of the advanced groups would be a great incentive to the less experienced
groups.
Amatures are advised to select a good old play in preference to a bad new play as
no art that does not welcome fresh ideas can live. Plays are equally as important as
the actors. The adjudicators get wearied by constant repetitions of hackneyed plays and,
therefore, they are eager to welcome new material which must be chosen very carefully.
Dramatic societies should not fall for a play simply because it has been successful earlier
on a professional stage.
Adjudication in a festival poses several difficulties. In Delhi different groups
present plays in different languages—English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Punjabi and so on.
Adjudicators cannot be expected to know all the languages. They have no alternative
but to depend on the synopses prepared by the competitors and, therefore, they miss a
good deal of the poetic quality and inner signiﬁcance ofthe dialogues. Secondly, the
plays are not divided into groups such as tragedy, comedy, farce, historical and social.
All types of plays are entered for the same competition. The adjudicators have the
difficult task of weighing the merits of a comedy against a tragedy, a historical or
mythological play against a farce. This is extremely difficult. The organisers would be
well advised to take these points into consideration and evolve a plan whereby these
problems may be solved. In music festivals generally the songs are classiﬁed into different
groups like D/irupad, Kheyal, T/zumri, Light Songs etc. and competitors can enter for
different groups. In the same way the organisers of drama festivals can formulate rules
and offer prizes for the best comedy, tragedy, historical and so on. This, of course,
would only be possible if the number of entries in each group is large.
Before entering into a competition the producer should read carefully the
explanatory details that are sent by the organisers. He should see if there _ is any pariicular
requirement of the organiser, i.e. whether the organiser is looking for experiment in
production and new ideas, whether spectacular or Simple presentation is preferred and
whether the balance is on the side of big cast or small cast. _ All these pomts must be
considered when selecting a play. Then only the production will appeal to the
adjudicators. Rules and aims are often vague. Therefore the aim should be to get
these cut and dried before the entrants begin to rehearse. When the decision to enter
into a competition has been taken and the aims and objects have been studied carefully,
the next thing to do is to select the most suitabie play. A wrong Selection may be damned
from the ven7 beginning because it is not in keeping with an organisation which is seeking
to develop certain ideas, or has some particular aim. It is not always that a bright piece
of entertainment will win laurels. The judges may like to see that an honest effort has
been made for all-round demands from the playwright, producer and actors. A poor
play will never be successful however well it is played. It may get high marks for

technical points, but the lack of spirit, atmosphere and the dramatic effort of the whole.

