" FENGALURU | MUMBAI

Stellar directors, new plays
What to Watch out for at the Ranga Shankara and Prithvi Theatre festivals
BY CHANPREE'I‘ KHURANA
chanpreet. k@ livemint.com

huri, across 10 plays till 8 November.
The directors will take part in a
round—table discussion on 7 Novem-

point it fails (J2), and on farmer sui—

r 1wo venerable theatre institutions

ber on their process and craft, and the

in two cities are staging their

themes that concern them.
Lillete Dubey, Mohit Takalkar,
Makrand Deshpande and Akarsh
Khurana are among the directors who
are taking part in the Prithvi festival.

the play is based loosely on Harold
Pinter's Lover. “The idea is from the
Pinter text, but we have layered it with
instances from plays like Romeo And
Juliet and Ashad Ka Ek Din, as well as
personal anecdotes," she says.
Padamsee, whose play A Peasant Of
El Salvadore will be performed on 7 A
November, will also be participating in

annual festivals.
In Bengaluru, Ranga Shankara
started “Youth Yuga" on 30 October,

focusing on directors under 40 years
who have made a mark on the Indian
theatre scene.

The 11-day Prithvi Theatre Festival
in Murnbai started on Thursday.
Both festivals have a line-up that
includes some of the best theatre

directors in the business right now.
Surendranath Suri, artistic director,
Ranga Shankara, says: “For the first
time, we contacted the directors we
wanted to invite and later asked them

which plays they were bringing.”
“Youth Y'uga" is featuring 11 directors,
including Abhishek Majumdar, Quasar
Thakore Padamsee and Neel Chaud-

What to expect at Ranga Shankara:
Each year, Ranga Shankara organizes
its festival around a theme. In 2013, it
famously organized the festival
around the plays of Girish Karnad.
Last year, the theme was “Celebrating
Indian Theatre: From Shakuntalam to
Sakharam"—the festival coincided
with the 10th anniversary of Ranga
Shankara. This year’s theme was chosen to reﬂect on the “challenges of our
times’j says Suri. These include ques—
tions, for instance, on what keeps the
modern marriage going, and at what

cides (A Peasant OfEl Salvadore).

Aditee Biswas, director of \/2, says

the director's round table. “We (thea—

tre directors) know each other. Usu—
ally, when we talk, we talk about the
next play we are doing. This will be an
opportunity to sit down and talk about
our processes and inﬂuences," he says
on phone from Murnbai.
What to expect at Prithvi Theatre:
The “Prithvi Theatre Festival 2015”
will feature 25 performances, includ-

ing the Aasakta theatre group’s Main
’

Modern marriage: Director Aditee Bislvus’ V2 will be staged at Ranga Shankara today.
Huun Y'usquur Yeh Hai Mera Bhai,
directed by Takalkar and based on
Arnir Nizar Zuabi’s 2010 play I Am
Y'usqund This Is My Brother. The

new plays by stellar directors.
The Primetime Theatre Co's Gauhar
will open on 14 November. Directed
by Dubey, the play is about Gauhar

story, set in the Palestine of 1948,

Iaan, the first Indian musician to

looks at the impact of border conflicts
and politics on personal lives. Main
Huun will open at the Ranga Shankara

record her voice—starting in 1902, she
cut close to 600 records.

festival on 8 November, and travel to

Timings, ticket prices and venues vary.

Murnbai for the Prithvi festival on 12
November.
There’s no theme; the big draw at
the Prithvi festival is the number of

For details on ” Youth Yuga 1’ visit
www.rangashankara.org, andfor the
"Prithvi Theatre Festival 20157 visit
www.prithvitheatre.org

क्तद्गल्यदृट्टेच्वच्चोंब्द "दोंहृअंट्वेंच्चा ' "है च्चि

