Tl It है देई। l t l(l; ty ht .- tti झा 1 t:I l t
[6 OCTOBER 2016

9

§1‘~'

The mitts [ responsibility .

peers remain conﬁned शालोमा the
tottering walls oltlterr home and
rarely get to see ant-ont- front the
outsrde “orld except a few Visitor‘s
got a ltletrrtte opportunity to corn-

८१ «4.1::v

lIlUlllCJlL‘ “'IIh connoisseurs Of an

art the) had .t tough trrtte mastering
at one of the most impeccably nttuntarned arrcondrtroned atrditorrunts of
eastern lndra. where some 01 the
best thespians of the region rarely
get a chance to showcase their tale nb
The play was a part of an evening
of trilogy based on sortie of the best
shon stories of Tagore The proceedings nere organised by one of the
most renowned theatre groups of
Bengal. Ritwrlc in an atterrtpt to
rediscover Tagore. the one who
shaped India‘s literature and rttu5tc
through his life and writin
Though the life of this proliﬁc hard
cannot he encapsulated in a few
hours and presented on
stage. Rather Roth and the two
other plays scored well in this
department as they gave the audience a taste of what the real mart
behind this persona must have been
like We have always knovm hiin as a
poised, calttt and intellectual personality But was Tagore a Communist
rebel“ Did he foresee the use of yellow journalism as a tool by the powers that he to tnahgn their political
opponents and gain mileage? They
tried to answer all these lesser-asked
questions and more,
Just like RatherRos/1i, the two
plays that preceded it भायँ। their contemporary and dynamic meanings
were ﬁne examples ol top notch acting. direction and content The two
plays. Sampadolz and .lusbll, were
odt based on Tagore's famous 510"८3 bythe same names and directed
by Suhhankar (ioswamr and the
doyen of theatre in biligurt, the
founder of Rttw‘rk. the late Malay
Ghosh
After several years of successhrl
runs of various classic presentations.
it is apparent that ltirwik's strength
पम----------,

“* " " ‘ 15""चिं" V:

Ol'TSlDE the italls is where the
vrtttnts lie. once I'L'MLlL‘lllS old place
“till a limo“ olntanslaughter kidnitpping hutglan .Lvault and
ettntes ofsemal connotation \K'ithin
are others who hate weathered the
\aganes {or llllnl years Tirttt' loads
Oil! is ten much on their hands
thromng up a scettano “here ﬁght~
mgboredom isolation anger and
peer pressure the boning and
scraping and general negatintv
demands courage. deterrrtmatron.
and a fresh turn of mm
For prisoners of the ,lalpargurt
Lentral Correctional Home who
must mirror themselves. given the
plight [het' ﬁnd themselves in. the
staging of the plat R/tlber [60:17: at
Dtnabndhu )lancha m Silrgurt on 28
September deﬁnitely had the potential of being lde-altenrtg
Rabmdranath Tagore wrote this
than «Rope of the Chariot) In 1952
soon after he had \‘lSllL‘d the Sovret
L'nron. where the concept of a classless socrety in Ruser appealed to his
sense ofrusttce and. back in India.
he embodied in RalberRnsbi' a
Vision that sprung from the Shudmr.
the lowest of the low in lndran sociery pulling on tlte rope of the chartot of the Lord which had inexplicably lain inert and unresponsive and
which its traditional handlers. the
high-born upperclass of the community refused to pick up
it would not be wrong, therefore
to read the play as highlighting the
LSSIJC of a class-strugye tn the Indian
social order But the pnsoners of
uric of the biggest communal
homes in Jalpaigurt. who. perhaps
see themselves as a class apart from
people outside, saw it as a play highlighting the issue of their reformation and rehabilitation
The ugh! security provided bya
huge contingent of prison. police
and DH} oﬂictals at the rttancha was
still pretty good ~perltapsmore so
at the ume of the performance.
when 24 male and four female
inmates ol tlte home who, like their

Prisoners of a correctional
home in Jalpaiguri enacted a
Tagore play and kept the
audience thinking long after
they’d filed back into their
cells, writes parag biswas

lies in its ability to stay as relevant is

'l'agore. The theme of the playsand
their compositions notwithstanding.
it was undoubtedly the stellar acting
— especially of the senior cm _ that
made the two plays extremely
engrossing to watch, Already why
ncrs {or their intricate plot and real
drama, the plays were also my edu-

cational in their depiction of a certain time in the political history of
India, in both explicit and implicit
ways. Sampado/z andSaab", which
ely maintained their period aesthetics in their sets and costumes —
the gaddi' and diu'art as furniture
old rotary hand-fans. 41701! and
[mud-wearing babu culture — dis

played great relevance in the depiction of the exploitation of the poor
and the downtrodden in society
It was, indeed, a thought-provoking evening and kept the audience
thinking long after the actors of
Rulber Rosbl tiled back to their cells
in Jalpaiguri' and the doors clicked
shut behind them.

tl

रै

