I T H EATR E I

VIJAYAN'S THE LEGBVDS OF KHASAK
CHANGEDTHE DIRECTION OF
MALAYALAM LITERATURE AS IT
CREATED A NEW PERSUASIVE
LANGUAGE, BLENDING MYTH,
MAGIC AND REALITY IN WHAT
WAS THEN AN UNPRECEDENTEU
ATTEMPT IN MALAYALAM
—

i NDi A ToD AY

Malayalamoriginal Khiisakkmte
ltlulmsamwas written. It is a societythat is
atthe mercy of individual eccentrici ties,
shifting loyaltiesand desires thatbecome
sms whenacted upon Thesecomplexi
ties are whatdirector and scenographer
Deepan Sivaraman strives to resolveon
stage in his adaptation titled'The
legends othasak‘, atlireerandra half
long hour long performancethat was
staged in Bengalururecently. He mostly
succeeds, the nitpickingI am tempted
to do is because oftlie complexity of
\iiayan’s debut novel and has less to do
with the skill ofany director who is brave
enough to pick up this particulartext
There is no ﬁxed storyline or timeline
forthe events that transpire in Viiayan’s
Klinsak It must be around a few decades,
because deaths and births areaplenty
Nothing ‘happens’ as such. But here, in
Khasak the village, the past merges with

the presenL the living with the ancestral.
the shamans with the commonersand
myth with the real to whip up aconcuc
tion ofunsettlingscenarios an ddays
that can bestbe described as imbued
with magic realism.
Ravi, acollege drop out. trying to run
awayfrom the guil t of an ill1 L it rela

5a

tionship with hisstep mother, opens
the play, as he does the novel. when he
comes to Khasak to run a siriglerteacher

school. Over the coming years,he meets
the villagers, whocarry awealth of
ritual. myth and eccentricity. He is ﬁrst
witness to and their participant in the
manycomplex layers ofthese people.

elements ofﬁre. air and water, and the
senses ofsmell and touch, Si \ ara man
creates an immerSive experience, By
stretching the limitsofthe proscenium.
lie ensures his audience is participative.
Wemeet Madhavan Nair, the village
tailor by day, Rai'i's drinking buddy

by evening, who invitesa member

The play follows the livesofthis handful

ofthe audience to measure him for a

oftharacters as they live. love.hate and
die.Even when their interactions with
eachother are peripheral, theyare still
bound by the strangeness oflegends,
dreams, fantasy and the magic that
coloursthe pastand predictsthe future
oftheir village. In following their lives,
the play mirrors the novel by showing
howthese characters canneither ﬁnd
respite from the influence ofthe spirits
that make the Khasakcountryside their
home, norquell the demands ofreality
satisfactorily.
\M iii no set story and nothing heppenirig’ in the course ofthe narrative,
visual isirig the novel as aplay see ins
foolhardy. 'I'he nonlinear narrative is a
perfect choice forSivararnan,\vho has
directed several such storyliries in his
त्मा. odecade long career.By staging
Khasak in an open arena, and using the

shin. When the beautiful and troubled
Maimoona gets married to ( 2h ukkru, at
the insistence ofher muIIiih father. A]
lapic ha, afew front row rrierri bers ofthe
audience are served traditional Mappila
food. The talc and perfume (Zhukkru is
sprayed with. while beingdressed up

for thewedding, wafts through the air.
We meet NizamAli, an orphanturried
bardiiseller turned quzitumedrselfapr
poiniedrrepresentative ofSaved Mian
Sheikh, the ghost Ofari inﬁrm horse
that gallops with the east wind in the
valleys othasak. We meet Appukkili,
the village idiot. who hunts forspiders
and dragonflies that have wings as
light as air. We also meet students ofthe
school Ravi mans, a teddy upper.the
headrnan. the women who affect each
other‘s lives and build more layers to
the my!hs ofKhasak. “3: follow their

3 D MAV 2 O I 8

