THE NON-LINEAR DIRECTOR
Deepan Sivaraman believes that the possibility तो
imagination is more in complex narrative structures
E E PA N SI VARA M A N, the
directorof’lhe legends of
Khasak',is mociate professorat
AmbedkarUniversity, New Delhi. and
foundingartistic directorofOxygeri
Theatre Company, Thrissur. Winner
ofthe Mahindra Excellence in Theatre
Award(META)and Kerala Sangeetha
Nataka AkademiAward. hisother
notableworks include ‘Spinal Cord.
‘Lo rd 91the Flies‘ and'Ihe Cabinet
ofDr Caligari‘, In an interview with
DEEPABHASI'HI. he talks about

i s ac c 1eh rati0n o1 a nc estors, of the
dead. Th 9 stage is constructed like the
ritualground. withbenches around
it.And ﬁre is fundamental. The snake
that Ravi carriesis a skeletono 1a
snake. The puppetthat represents
Ravi’s stepmother is askeleton from
the waistdown. Wli eripeople come
out ofthebox. they are comingout
oftlie grave, Everything is dead. and
the unearthing of the deadis how the
playis conceived

thesigniﬁcance ofﬁre. and why he

What made you choosesuch a
mmplat tart to workwith? Mam'c
realism isn't the easiest genre to
adapt forstage.
1arii a bigfan of latin American litera-

doesn't believein the binaryotan actor
andnon-actor. Excerpts
Theuse of ﬁre is very यहि-, in
the play. Does it have aritualistic
meaningfor you?
Thereis an undertone ofdeath in the
play. The dugoutstage is conceived
as an excavationground. Where by
takingout thesoiL life, culture is unearthed. Whenthe actorscome out of
the box. theyare comingout of their
grave. When wewentto Thasarale
there was a newculture there. We
had to unearth that to ﬁndthe culture
Viiayan wrote about. Also. Theyyam

trajectories. choose favourites. as spirits
rise from the paddy ﬁelds. and arrack
flowsfree. as do passions.
lifeafﬁrmirig ﬁre is aconstantele
merit in thisplay The charm. a makeshift
torch made by liinting a 11andin] of
palm fronds.is another regular feature.
These ﬁresthou.in signifydeathThe use
ofpuppetsis frequent aswell They are
large, sometimes gro tesque, and dowhat
the characters themselvesare ashamed of
doing. Perhaps byprojecting their deeds
onto apuppet. characters hope to be
reprieved oftheinevitability oftheir sins,

3 0 MAV 20 । S

oé ८ जीय ण

Bu tdea lh. even that तो the puppets. is
neverabsent. Everythingand everyoneis
Iongdeadeveiythingnuw '
‘ '
back The whole playis an unearthing,
Vijayan's The ligands tIthasuk
changed thedirection of Malayalam
literature as it createdanew persuasive
language, b lendin g myth,in agic andre
alityinwhat
L an
r
’
ed attemptiii Malayalam. Such remains
its sign iﬁca ticc that peopleclassify 1ite rar
ture in Kerala asbefore and after Khasak.
It is not a text that can be easily forgotIen. Give itits inﬂuence on readers and

lure. Ihave lll‘Vt'f liked linear शामा]
11७५5. I'hepossihilityofiinagiriatiiin is
more in complex 11९11'1111'९'९11१111111९'४
Many layers of visuals arepossi liltThe complexity of narrative takes
1heaud icnr c'si magina tto nh erea nd
there. It also gives them the possihi I
ityofmaking anarrative themselves.
Ihave looked immaterialaround the
world. Iread Kliasuk 2o a दु years ago.
a text like that sticks with you. It is a
complex noveland you don't want to
bum yourhand bypicking up sortie
thing like this.The useofpuppets.
scenographyi etcetera. is something
I have been experimentingwith. My
language has perhaps became mature
enouin to tackle this.
Why did you use people from Trilatrupur as actors in the play? (Ii-ikam
pur in Kasargod distrid is when the
playwas ﬁrst produced in 2015.)
I havea little problem withthe word
‘non~actor' and ‘trairi eda ctor’,1 have
trained my actorsforﬁve months
What matters is whetherthey can act
or not I don‘t believe in the binary of
an actor and nonaac tor.111 didn't tel1
you they are nonprofessionalactors.
you wouldn't know What matters
is how dedicated theyare. The lifeof
subaltem people is complex. thereare
no siriiple answers.A cityactor may
no tunderstand the complexitiesof
these lives and will doa jobofacting,

thecomplexities it encompasses. anya t
temptat avisual adaptation comes with
manyperil‘
' 'The legends
of Khasak’remains mi iitilul of these
challengesand concentrates more 0n
beingan immersive experience. and less
ondepicting the nuances of the novel
faithfully. as theyare. It is in recognising
the"
३
tiii ti ual medium
inbringing alive a village as strangeas
Khasak that theplay succeeds in being
an ' ex perie nce .' I
क्या Bhaslhi'is a 3५पाहु/८1111111८11८1दृ८१111पां1द्धा7

59 क्या

