थ्यादृमु , , , ।.. ‘
VVV ‘ ' ३
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964-65 on an
experimental basis by Sh. E. Alkazi. In the begining, it consisted of
only four actors. it later expanded in to a larger group of actors,
musicians and technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of the
National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964 Late Shri Om Shivpuri led
the Company and later in 1977, Late Shri Manohar Singh become the
first regular Chief of Repertory when Manohar Singh left the Repertory
Company in 1885, for a short period Miss. Uttra Baokar and Ms.
Surekha Sikri looked after the functioning of the company.
Late Shri J . N. Kaushal officiated as the Chief till 1988. From 1989 to
1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was handling the company. From 1994
to 97 Shri Kaushal was again functioning as acting Chief. From 1999
NS. D. graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma was appointed as the
permanent chief of the Repertory Company.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of plays ranging
from stylised rnusicials to realistic contemporary works of Indian
drama to translations and adaptations of foreign language plays.
Eminent directors of national and international repute from within the
country and abroad have worked with the company.
Repertory has performed over hundred and thirty ﬁve plays by eighty
five playwrights and has worked with seventy directors. Quite a few of
the actors of the company have emerged over the years as celebrities
in theatre, cinema and television in India. The Repertory tours
extensively all over India and has made several successful trips of
Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and Mauritius.

inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee celebration
of the Company. The company celebrated 40 yrs. of its existance on

20th May 2004.

Business Manager

S. P. Sharma

Production Coordinator

Parag Sarrnah

Music lncharge

Om Prakash

Light Technician

Cryan Chand Batra

Asst. wardrobe Supervisor

C. S. Bhatia

Sound Technician

R. S. Gosain

Box Office

A. K. Barua
V. P. Vashist
Dhararnveer

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in 1992-93 on his
twentieth death anniversary through a major festival of his plays.

Repertory Chief

:

Suresh Sharma

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs, set models,

Director NSD

:

Prof. D. R. Ankur

costumes, properties, posters etc. of Repertory productions was

