monologues depict the thoughts flashing within the minds of the

The cross commercialization of art as well as generating

characters and 1 have concritised them though corresponding

sensation for its so called 'promotion’, are things that I do not

action.

agree with. In a way, the play 'Dalit Yuvati. . .' exposes the futility of
publicity and popularity achieved through sensationalizing an

: How important is a particular form for a particular play ?

.>

event, unrnindful of the agony and suffering caused to its
I don't think that merely form in itself merits any separate
participants.
discussion. The form in play production is part and parcel of the
How you ﬁnd the journey from Bhasa to Mukundan precisely
content, the thought of the author is externalized by the director.

the thought of playwrights in Indian Theatre scenario?
Yes, we study various movements and styles in the history of
theatre and drama. But while doing a play the style is discovered

A look at the history of theatre would reveal that the director, in his

from within. । ﬁrmly believe that the style and form of a play is very

present day avtar, emerged on the theatre scene. barely two

much subjective

personal to the director and the author. The

hundred years ago and has usurped completely leaving no space

author ﬁrst of all discovers only to be rediscovered by the director

for the playwright. I firmly believe that theatre acquired new

in his mis-en-scene. It is impossible to imitate another person's

dimensions through the works of Bhasa, Euripides, Pirandello,

style and if ever any one does so, would prove to be a poor

Lorca, Sircar, Rakesh and all the playwrights contributed

irnitator. While doing a play put your entire soul into it so that the

'Thought', so essential to theatre. Unfortunately the present day

life of the play incarnates into experiences.

theatre has banished 'thought’ in preference to body and
movement. It has negated the human psyche, depriving the

: What is your opinion about the Art and the Populist art ?
audience of proximity to experience. I am trying to redeem it.
You see, I am of the opinion that Art, whether 'Populist' or
Soutz' Chakrabor’ty
otherwise, should be judged by the sincerity of their expression.

