The sad story of a young Dalit Girl

The well known theatre director Karimboy is fascinated by the play and
decides to produce it. Radhika, who is a professional actress who had a

In a remote village called Jagdhari, Gundecha reigns supreme. The
stint in Europe, accepts to play the role of Bhagwanti. Parth, known as
upper class zamindar is a source of terror for the Dalits of Jagdhari.
the architect of light, will be in charge of lighting. As uncompromising
Once he hurniliates a young girl, Bhagwanti, parading her naked in
as he is, Karimboy insists that Radhika appear in the nude in the scene
front of the village folks - a scene reminiscent of Draupadi's disrobing in
depicting Bhagwanti's disrobing. Partha thinks up a delicate lighting for
the Mahabharata.
the scene. The rehearsals begin on the terrace of Karimboy’s house to
The writer Narayanan hears about it and wants to write a play based on

the excitement of the artistes. However as the rehearsals progress,

this true story. In order to get to the heart of the story, he visits Jagdhari.

Radhika backs out. A frustrated Karimboy decides to abandon the play,

Wearing a false sacred cord, he meets Gundecha and introduces

to the consternation of the entire troupe.

himself as a journalist from the city. Pleased with the Brahrnin writer's
Though she is not a professional actress, Vasundhara comes forward to
humility, Gundecha invites him to stay with him in his house.
save the play. She will do Bhagwanti's role the way Karimboy wants it.
Narayanan settles down in the perpetrator's house and begins to write

And she does it.

the play. When Gundecha finds it out, he throws the writer out of his
But due to an unforeseen turn of event, the play ends up in a disaster house.
beyond redemption.
The play is an adaptation of the short novel, 'The sad story of a young
Dalit girl' by M. Mukundan. Seemingly, it is all about the problems of
staging a play. But it also touches upon certain issues of our time that
really unsettle us : oppression of Dalits, abusing of woman's body,
invasion of the visual media and above all the purpose and usefulness of
creative pursuits in time of globalisation.

