II

,

l

/

The unfolding lei/so
PareSh Maity’s latest show captures his evolution as an artist
over 40 years, writes Avantika Bhuyan
१ ५

_'

ष.

‘a

..‘

I

m. ..»

mediums, the show will, for the very ﬁrst time,
feature drawings, paintings and sculptures
created by him between 1976 and 2016.
There is a stark difference between the
muted tones and ﬁgurative style of Cleaner, a
water colour created in 1976, and the warm,

vibrant hues of Expression, an oil on board
from 1992, Which shows Maity’s movetowards
abstraction. “His earlier water colours are typical to what:people did after comingout from
the Government College of Art and Craft,
Kolkata,” says Premilla Baid, founder-director,
Gallery Surnukha. “However, as you move

towards his later works, one can see how his
palette changed. Also distinctive are the sizes
he works with. Few people can do water
colours in those sizes.”
It’s a rare treat to behold some
of his early works, such as
Entrance, a 1984 water colour
and graphite 011 paper. A lot of
newworks are part ofthe exhibition as well, one ofthe 11181111.;
beinga massive bronze sculpture,
PlyingFantasy, which depictsa

O

r11 he bookshelf in Paresh Maity’s studio
in Chittaranjan Park, Delhi, is lined
with works that would delight anyart
history scholar. Banaras by Raghubir Singh
shares space with Encyclopedia of Tibetan
Symbols and Motifs and Elements ofStyle by
Stephen Galloway. The warm October sun
casts a golden sheen on several new works, in

various stages of completion.
“1 love light. It plays a vital role in my
work, whatever be the medium,” says Maity

as he walks into the room. “I work only till
sunset in a place where I can get sufﬁcient
natural light as it helps me recognise the purity of colours beautifully.”
It is this play of light and colour that has
been his signature for the last four decades.
'One can get a glimpse ofhow Maity’s distinctive visual language has evolved over time at
an upcoming exhibition, “Beyond Horizons”,
at Gallery Sumukha, Bengaluru. 'I‘o showcase
the ease with which Maity moves within

“Today, art, to some degree, has become inter—
active.When Fantasy was showcased atArt15 in
London Fairlast year, therewere children climbing on it, sitting on top,” says Baid.
About his evolution, Maity says. “As a person, I am what I was 40 years ago. However,
with knowledge and exposure, myartistic style
has evolved. Every dayI try something new.” He
paints for himself and doesn’t go by popular
notions and perceptions. “There is a reaSon
thatthis exhibition is called ‘Beyond Horizons’
as there is no limit to an artist’s evolution. The
In Maityls
possibilities are limitless.”
work, texture
Texture plays a big role

playsva big

in his work and is used

ro|e and
is used

differently in each mediurn to explore different

differently in
each mEdium

dimensions. For instance,
in alotofhismixed media
works, one ﬁnds the
use of rice paper with
charcoal to create a
unique surface quality.
Maity attributes his love for
textureto his childhoodspent

horse with wings and weighs

in Tarnluk, west Bengal. “I

1,200 kg. In the past two to
three years, Maity has created similar functional pieces,
some ofthern so big thatyou
can walkinto them. Another
one, Fantasy, which will
also be shown at this
exhibition, isan 11-footlong sculpture depicting the male andfemale
attributes of the tiger.

grew up with clay. Tamluk
has a huge tradition of creating idols during Durga
Puia. I used to come out of
school and watch them
being made. So, sculpture
is in myblood,” he says.
‘BeyondHorizons’ will be on
View at GallerySumukha,
Bengaluru, till November12

