OBER‘

1‘6

हैं
१ ’1

Law?

,. r

4".y

.,

,
s
e
m
i
t
w
o
l
l
o
h
n
i
है / The heretic

tf

’

_..पृt हैं i.
s ". i

f

f

M _.. —##—

" t is difficult to pigeonhole an
artist who dropped out of the
Government College.of Art &
- )raft in his third year in 1980,
designed the interiors of all the
Beta showrooms in India, collected
a fascinating variety of folk art
from all over the country, tried his
hand at unconventional media
when he returned to practising art
in 1991, and even designed a shelter '
for cyclone victims. The retrospec- '

. {fVISUAfARS

is one titled, Celebrating José
Francisco Borges, in which
he shows a man ‘drinking’
'the woodcuts of the Brazilian woodcut artist and poet,
in a literal visualization of a
certain Bengali expression.
. Gupta’s organization of
space and his use of stippling are quite remarkable
'n this series where he used

(2001), madéclean he.was

. Soumitra Das
forms, and some had a touch of hu-

making obvious references‘ to scroll paintings
created by traditional

mour. "
chitrakars after a family ‘
The technique of acrylic an
suffered bereavement. ,
photochemical imaging on canvas Here too his strong sense दु
brought out the best in Gupta’s cre- of design is evident, a '
ativity. According to Paula Sengup- quality not apparent in
ta’s essay on Gupta’s work in the cat- other practitioners. . .
alogue, in the late 903, Gupta “evolParody was Gupta’s
tive (September 4 to 1'7) of Abhijit ved a direct printingprocess that is , strong. suit, andjit was
lupta (1954-2014) at the Harrington a combination of the Kallitype and difﬁcult to miss ,that
Street Arts Centre, organized by Ferro-Prussian processes from 19th point in his poster-like
Khoj, the artist’s family and friends, century Britain. His focuswas to de- My Prayer (picture); In
and titled Life and WOrks of Abhijit velop a convenient, durable, and in- thishe used calendar im- ८
Gupta: A Heretic ’3 Journal Journey, expensive water-based process that ages of Rabindranath
revealed the many facets of this was conducive not only to print the Tagore with:a halo and
suave man, who remained a design- . photograph on canvas, but also to frame of sequins. 'I‘he .
er at heart, incorporated folk ele— allow him to ‘interfere’ with itthere- caption that punned on
ments in his work,३ and even used after.”
,:
the poet’s surname, was
photographic images at a time when
He would fold these canvases ‘on , 'unmistakably from probit was unusual to do so. Gupta was a which photographic images , h
ably the most famous
founder member of Khoj Kolkata been printed into various ouri A' 3- Bollywood blockbuster.
and among his manifold activities, forms, origami style.” Some were, ३" However; in an oblique
he published a ﬁctitious newspaper styled like shirts and others 1.11.61- "' manner, it was a dig at '
named Hollow Times.
ciful kites. When he used photo-; the" deiﬁcation of theThe early works dating back to graphs of human beings,they were Nobel laureate in this
the early 19805 revealGupta’s Leftist faded and sepia-toned like memo- state.
leanings, for he depicted underdogs ३ ries that had become misty and
In 2005, Gupta reand homeless people in uncluttered were about to disappear, giving ceived the Unesco-‘Aspaintings with clean lines. Terracot— them a wistful quality. But the delib- chbergv fellowship for a -ta was one medium that remained ' erate manner in which he processed residency at the Sacatar ,
'his favourite, and he created volu- themdeviated from the nostalgia as- Foundation ३ in Brazil, ' '
minous tubular forms growing out sociated with them. Gupta occasion- and there too, his ink and waterof each other with tentacles for ﬁn- ally used self-portraits and played colour on paper works demonstrate
gers. They were suggestive of around with them, usingpigment to what a strong sense. of graphic dehuman beings and other organic poke fun at himself. As the title of sign he had. He incorporated ele-

Bengali folk motifs with
great facility At times, V
Gupta used dashes simulat—
ing the kantha stitch instead
of cross-hatching, with an
equally telling effect. There
was a touch of humour in
these works ५where he juxtaposed the vernacular with

elements derived from vari—
Ous sources. Here too he
proved himself an innova— ’
tive graphic artist. Some of,
his most mystifying works
were Conté pencil drawings
of indeterminate forms that
suggested human limbs as
much as they did the folds of
garments.

In his lifetime, Gupta was

invdlved in multiple proj-

ments of Bengal folk art in these

ects, some concerning the
architecture of old Calcutta 7
houses (of which he made a
video - one among several others)

works, ‘not in an obvious manner and The OliveRidley Shelter for Aila
though. Someof the images he had
devised are quite remarkable. There

victims. How much more would he
have done had he still been around!
m

