(
Selections
_

.

दृ

ﬂ

-4;

III'SINI‘SS INDIA 6 I H!

\l \(r \/|'\l HI

I l‘:

v I l '11 \ I l

‘»

t l I’. l I )

,क्रि 1.. .. n

i
l

THE NAKSHATRA DANCE FESTIVAL AWES AND AMAZES

Faster than the speed of life
performance is usually faster
than the speed of life: it illuminates small stories, often

leaping across days, moments and
thoughts. The Nakshatra Dance Festival brought wonderful performances to Mumbai: the cutting edge
of excellence!
’Not waiting for the storm to pass
but to dance with the lightening’:
that is Akram Khan, today acclaimed
worldwide. Years earlier, his ’Kaash’,

a deeply disorienting experience like
entering an eerie spaceship amidst
alien forces, was about the universe,
or rather, various universes, about the

formation of the planets and pralaya.
He had used Nitin Sawhney’s composition, which sounded like the music

of the spheres, while Anish Kapoor
created the ﬂashing blues, purples,
reds and bright sterling streaks of
light. For those who believe the universe always exists and always will,
this was about energy, dark, forbidding and ultimately, what creates us.
Then, came his dance of Shiva
(meaning ﬁre and wind). This time
he and the ﬂamenco dancer, Israel
Galvan, brought ’Torobaka’, (the

bull and the cow), in a combination of amazing kathak, ﬂamenco
and simply pure dance, to grunts
and calls before primitive speech or
even meaning arrived, while animals and humans encountered each
other. They showed the ﬁrst sparks

of consciousness in rnindbending,
ﬁrecracker fast steps, shakes, circles:
physical geometry accompanied by
prayerful Hebrew chants, the splintering of muscles, the knots of limbs.

Ultimately, watching their movements dance out the spinning days
and nights of existence, one could
only gasp, "This too is humanly possible’. Often, this is not really dance
with a story, it is pure movement. It
just is, showing perhaps the borders
or the birth of movement itself. Electric work!
Padmabhushan
Dhananjayans
and their troupe, Bharatakalanjali,

brought ’Nritya Darshan’, a legendary group which is rather glamorous
and elegant. They performed the ﬁve
elements, the goddesses and their
classic thillana: joyful, vivacious
and inclusive. This work seems cornpletely modern but actually it was
danced decades ago in New York,
Moscow, etc. The 70-year-old guru

danced Tulsidas’s devotion via his
Rarncharitrnanas to a standing ovation. Their premier stars, most aged

forty plus, included Kerala’s Saﬁk
and Shabana, trained in pure Bharatnatyarn. Bringing modern feelings to
classical steps, their work is exciting,

ecstatic and truly memorable.
Next day,
an Odissi presentation, ’Anweshanaa: In Search of Excel-

lence’ was presented by Guru Ratikant
Mohapatra’s Srjan institute. Again
it seemed to bring temple sculpture
to life with statuesque dancers and,

more important, it brought back Nehru’s hope for India, a time when people happily sang: Tu Hindu banega
na Musalman banega... The female
dancer carrying the cruciﬁx with the
heavy Christ was a painful, truly moving sight. Besides her, the dervishes
circled into meditative trances.
Next, there was powerful Manipuri
work by martial artists and drum
work which deserves to be Viewed all
over the world, their standard was so

very highThese artistes created beau—
tiful shapes, often frightening in
their precise intensity, as they deﬁed

the entities we call space /time, leaving Nureyev’s gravity defying leaps
far behind. The festival could be
extended over more days and occur
more often. Schools need to see it to
really have glimpse Indian art.
A secondary note: Shows would
improve without such long, unnecessary speeches, especially as the audience presumably, already knows why
it is here. Performance can be pure
entertainment and an expression of
life, not a classroom to ’educate’ a

captive audience! English is spoken
by a tiny percentage of India; so, naturally (I), speeches and clariﬁcation

at cultural events (usually involving non-English speaking performers) are done in English! Rather than
being crisp, informative and a minute or two long, the speeches tend to

stretch, usually replete with non-i1121minating platitudes; and, Viewers put
up with them since they do not have
a choice. The bad ones usually thank
every odd person on the dais, making the moment even more unpalatable. The speeches could be on
websites or at the end for the interested, without the rest of us gnashing teeth and glaring rnutinously.
O \\\'\l‘\ \ \ 0R \

~

tt'ctlhm LN humuwamhaglnup \Ulll ।

I
हँ
हlै'

o 94 ०
OCTOBER 2(i-NOVliMBliR 8, 2015
I

