DIRECTOR’S NOTE
It is not our intention to depict the
normative situation of entire humankind (not mankind) in the world
whose wholeness is half male, half

denied or ignored in the context of
woman’s expanding awareness.
This presentation is expressed
primarily through the medium of

female (Ardhanareeshwara). Nor is it to
verify the factual. Rather, it is to
allow ’impotence’ to shed its literal
meaning, to draw our attention to

acting. I have composed (imposed)
the rhythms and even the play of

other dimensions of incompleteness

spontaneity is the achievement of the

suggested by it. That which divides
physical need and mental unendura-

artists. What remains mechanical

bilities is sexual, of course, but is it

In the compositions and the sculpting of figures the experiment of using

glances and expressions. Yet the
mood that is expressed in a burst of

shall be my responsibility.

sexual only?
During the production process the
realistic style was intertwined with

the traditional two-dimensional style

traditional classical postures and
their variations so that all that which

moulding day to day postures into
attitudes suggestive of the dance. As

is ’physical’ may not remain merely

to how far it has fallen into place,

’commonplace’. Again glimpsed in

who’s to say?

the evocative, mercurial encounters is

the equation of the relationship of
Sheelvati and Pratosh, the erotic and

has recurred. The attempt is towards

Costumes, setting and makeup
have been deliberately exaggerated—
for the same reason—this is a presen-

the lonely. The delicate melody of
stillness (not stoniness) and movement must be harmoniously blended
through the transitions. If not, it shall

tation of the dramatic situation, not

be a great failure on our part. We

the play, with its variations of the

with the interrogative in Okkak was
suggested to the playwright . . . . it
could not be . . . . and so we have
attempted to express it through the
speech and psychological states of
the characters.
Since the conflict of the play

singer’s notes, modulations and
sensibilities exists insofar as it reaches

centres primarily around a woman,
the suggestions offered by the

the heart of the spectator (Sahridaya)
and, hopefully, becomes part of it.
Questions regarding the manwornan relationship did not seem

associate director and other woman

shall not fall back upon the saying
Natwat Rafa Bhavet (the actor becomes

like the king, but for the spectator the
king becomes like an actor)—of
course the score has not changed . . . .

socially relevant or timely a decade

ago. Today their relevance cannot be

the creation of an original.
The idea that the play should end
not with Sheelvati’s statement, but

artistes helped to formulate my interpretation (for, after all, I’m only a

man trying to be human) of which
this is an acknowledgement.

