SYNOPSIS
_
King Okkak, ruler of the kingdom of
Malla, has not yet produced an heir
to the throne though he has been

gin to discover each other. Pratosh,

physician has declared him impotent. 'I'o quell the unrest of the
people, safeguard the kingdom from

who is still hurt at Sheelvati's betrayal, refuses to acept her, but her
anguish breaks down his barriers.
As the night deepens Okkak's delirium mounts. He goes back into the
past and relives the scenes of his inse-

enemy attack and to uphold the

cure childhood, his impotence and its

married these five years. The royal

royal tradition of proclaiming an
heir after five years of marriage, the
council of ministers decides to hold
the ancient ceremony of niyoga in
which the Queen must publicly
choose a husband for one night on

three separate occasions so that she
may honourably conceive an heir to
the throne.
Act 1.
The palace is in a state of tension.
Preparations are being made for the
even at sunset. A distraught Okkak's
vehement protests are quelled by his
ministers who remind him of his duties towards his subjects and the
throne. The virgin Queen Sheelvati is
ceremoniously presented with the
garland with which she will 'wed'
the suitor of her choice. Okkak’s

anger and humiliation find a target
in Sheelvati but she is helpless
against the circumstances. Submissive to her royal duty, she leaves for
the royal courtyard where the

ceremony is to be held. The proceedings of the ceremony are related to
Okkak by Mahattarika. It happens
that Sheelvati's childhood betrothed,

Pratosh, appears unexpectedly at the
cermony and is garlanded by
Sheelvati as her chosen mate.
Act 2.

Okkak bitterly mocks at his physical
incapacity. Obsessed with the unknown intimacies of married life, he

desperately questions Mahattarika
about her own experiences.

Elsewhere Sheelvati and Pratosh be-

possible remedy; marriage, and his

final failure on the nuptial bed.
Elsewhere Sheelvati and Pratosh seek
fulfilment in each other's company.
Act 3.

Sheelvati returns with the sunrise a
changed woman. Her experience of
the past night has given her a new
awareness of the relationship between
man and woman, a world which is

beyond Okkak's comprehension.
Sheelvati informs Okkak that her chosen husband Pratosh shall remain in
the Capital for some time yet.
Sheelvati deals severely with the ministers, defeating them on their own
grounds by wishing to avail herself of
the remaining opportunities of niyoga.
She commands them to make a public
proclamation that the next niyoga
ceremony will be held a week from

now.
Sheelvati's search for personal happiness has revealed the complex
needs of life which require more than
one person to fulfil them.

