THE REPERTORY COMPANY
The Repertory Company of the
National School of Drama is a performing group of players and
technicians who have graduated
from the School in the past years.
Formed in 1964 with just four actors, the Company was started on

an experimental basis by Shri E.
Alkazi, the Director of the School

till the late 19705 and a dynamic
theatre personality who had a
major hand in nurturing and expanding the Company over the
years.
In 1977, when the Company acquired the status of National Repertory, Shri Manohar Singh took
over as its Chief and carried its activities across the nation, the foun-

dation for which had been laid by
Shri E. Alkazi. Since the early
19703 the Company has produced
a rich variety of plays that range
from stylised musicals to realistic
contemporary works. A few
examples: Tughlaq, Andha Yug,
Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed,
Panchvan Savar, Rasgandharva,
Skandagupt, Surya Ki Antim Kiran
Se Surya Ki Pehli Kiran Tak, Charpai,
Sainyan Bhaye Kotwal, Adhe Adhure,
Sandhya Chhaya, Iasma Odan, Mat—
tavilas, Kath Ki Gadi, Viasat,
Mashriqi Hoor, Main Ladli Maina
Teri, Pagla Ghoda, etc.
The Repertory has worked with a
variety of directors from India and
abroad. Besides using the best
available scripts the Company has
also successfully dramatised and
produced a few novels and short
stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekan t,

Begum Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri,

Mahabhoj, and Mitro Marja ni. In the
past years its repertoire has also
included foreign plays in translations and adaptations. Some examples: Brecht’s Caucasian Challk
Circle, Three Penny Opera and
Puntila and His Man Matti;
Shakespeare’s Othello and
Macbeth; Moliere’s Schoolfor Wives;
Osborne’s Look Back in Anger;
Bond’s The Fool; Chekhov’s Uncle
Vanya and Cherry Orchard;
Pirandello’s Six Characters in
Search of An Author; Istvan
Orkeny’s Totek; Rostand’s Cyrano
de Bergerac; Goldoni’s The Servant
of Two Masters; Saroyan’s The Cave
Dwellers; Bernard Shaw’s Pygmalion; and O’Neill’s Marco Millions.
The Company is based in New
Delhi, where it gives regular performances. It has a Studio Theatre
and a beautiful Open—Air Theatre.
The latter is one of the best of its
kind, situated in natural surround-

ings readily adaptable to different
environments and thus enriching
the different styles of productions
which have been staged there.
One of the remarkable contributions of the Company’s activities
which has given a new dimension
and opened a new avenue for the
Indian theatre is the use of historical monuments and ruins like
Pinjor (3 ard en, Chandigarh, Ferozeshah Kotla, Talkatora Garden and
Purana Quila in Delhi for its land-

mark productions like Andha Yug,
Tughlaq, Sultan Razia, etc.
Apart from performing in Delhi
the Company undertakes extensive tours to different parts of India

