J A N A l K E R MR lT Y U
The main theme of Janaiker Mrityu, an adaptation of
Arthur Miller’s The Death of a. Salesman, centres around the
expectations and inhibitions, both past and present, of a man

who lives in a peculiarly mixed-up world of reality and fancy.
He pursues his daily routine haunted by the threat of being

sacked from his job for incompetence on the one hand. and an
increasing sense of despair for having failed utterly to make a
.success of his post-marital responsibilities on the other. The
tense relation between him and his eldest son, who out of an

apparently incomprehensible grudge against him, seems to have
lost all his respect for him and is growing every day into a
Stranger who hardly resembles the child who was once the apple
of his eye. His younger son too, has become noticably colder
to his parents and lives an entirely self-centred life;
_ It is easy to realise that the salesman suffers the most acute

agonies mainly because of his elder son’s indiﬂ’erent attitude
to him. He can guess at the cause and feels a sense of guilt
which makes him wonder from time to time whether he has
faithfully done his duties towards his family both as an husband
and as a father. But the same sense of guilt prevents him from
acknowledging his mistakes and alienates him further from his
loved ones.
So the salesman drags on a dreary existence. From time to
time past memories ﬂash into‘ his mind and he re-lives the
mistakes and moments of bliss of his by—gone days. But these
experiences leave him utterly exhausted and hopeless.
' The climax comes when in a moment of revelation discovers
that his eldest son actually loves him instead of hating him.
It is a moment pregnant with extreme emotional conﬂicts and

. throbbing with the most unexpected and exciting possibilities. ,
This moment prepares the salesman to make the ultimate and
. ﬁnal sacriﬁce for his family, mainly his elder son, and thus purge
him free of the unbearable burden of a guilty conscience.

‘

\

SADHANA PRESS PRIVATE LIMITED CALCU’I'I‘A 12

