A" दृ

Voices in the Dark
NSD students deserved the applause at the end

ofthe play, Naked Voices
विषु l. _ हृ'

DIPANITANATH

W

ing of the stories of Urdu writer Saadat
Hasan Manto resulted in the production,
Bitter Fruit,at the National School of Drama
(NSD) in Delhi last year. Last month, the
Chandigarh—based theatre directorreturned
to NSD to work with a fresh set of third-year
students and created Naked Voices, which,
again, used Manto’s literature to foreground
the condition ofwornen caught in events of
social turmoil. Naked Voices was staged at
NSD’s intimate Bahumukh auditorium,
which was stripped down to bare electrical
wires, naked lightbulbs, exposed drain pipes

and walls peeled offpaint to create an apocalyptic atmOSphere.

The rough and the raw mood suited the
texture of the narrative. The play unfolded
as a collage of scenes. fragments and core
ideas ofstories of Manto and Maxim Gorky
as well as original compositions by the student-actors. “We had no deﬁnitive script to
begin with. I saw this play as episodic, a story
emerging from another, without any obvi—

५

NEEIAM MANSINGl-WHOWDHRY’S read-

ous connection,” says Chowdhry of the frag—
mented plots.
.
The treatment, too, swung fromthe real—
isticto the abstract. The stagewas busy with
different activities. A calm scene ofan ordi—
nary farnily preparing for the day led to the
ﬂurry of a riot, which led to a story ofa sex
worker who is rejected by a client and then
onward to a narrative of a manwho receives
a mysterious phone call from a woman and
then to a scene in which a youngsex worker
murdersa man. ABollywood song anddance
popped up as did the image of Mr Napkin
Head from the Hollywood ﬁlm The Holiday.
Ifthe transitions seemed seamless, it was
largely due to the students who displayed
the vigour that such a high-energy play demanded. Every scene had a different mood
and emotional level, which the cast successfully rendered.
The acting and storytelling would have
sufficed in a minimalist production.
Chowdhry and scenographer Deepan
Sivaraman, however, are well—knownfor using a range of stagecraft to presenta fulsome
experience. Among Chowdhry’s signatures
were dramatic costumes (that could qualify

._

“I,”' किं५

A scene from Naked VoiceSIyagamjan

I'

2r
हक

for a fashion ramp). One actfﬁ, dressed in
high—heeledboots, a jacket आहि shorts. and

thick lipstick, was the embtfdiment of a
pimp. ThereWas also Chowd ' 's penchant

for olfactory communication है oily,smoke
from a fire at the beginning 0 ie play and

the fragrancepf rose petals at _ 0 end.
Sivaraman, one of India's ' tscenogra—
pliers. created‘rnany of the gri ‘ elements of

the play. He placed a mirror acriﬁs a wall and
., ,

ii

streaked itwith dripping water to adda layer
of dilapidation to the stage. 011 the opposite
corner was a half-built wall, its cement still
oozing between bricks. In the story of two
scavengers searching for food in a rubbish
pile, Sivararnan created rain frOm an overhanging bar on stage, manipulating the drip
ofwater from a drizzle to a downpour.
Last year, the scenographer had turned a
warehouse at Ambedkar University into an

asylum ofhorror in his play, The Cabinet ofDr"

Caligan'. Blood had poured from the taps and
added to the darkness ofthe story. In Naked
Voices, a sequence, in which a little girl is
raped by her uncle, is signed off with blood
gushing from the open hole of a dr'ainpipe ‘
and spreading on the ﬂoor. As a metaphor,
this felt insensitive. Such “effect” belong to
drarnatisation of crime on television news,
not a genderesensit-ive play.
I

