रै'कैहाँ‘न्हों'न्हींच्छी‘फैफैन्हीं'कै'कै'र्थीकैफैशैशैकंफैफैफैशैबंरुँशैशैकंर्थोंफैशैचंचंपैकैकैमैंकें
A dvertz'sement»

Iraqi women

well prepared ३
for cambat
conditions
the Leadership and contributing to
Once again Iraqi women are giving full support to
the battle against the Persians.

Younis, chair-woman of the
In an interview with the Baghdad Observer, Mrs. IVIanaI
General Federation of Iraqi Women, said :

s pioneering positions in the
"Iraqi women under the Revolution have assumed variou
exceptional efforts to create
society and have gained their full rights. Today they are making
in defence of the homeland.
an additional force capable of playing a significant role
r Army and Civil Defence units,
“In addition to participation of members in the Popula
September to promote such activities
there are units, set up by the Federation since last

and information and foreign
as organisation, social mobilization, family affairs, culture
relations. The activity of Civil

e to
Defence units is well felt in the services they provid

citizens including first aid services.
hospitals and families of the
“Delegations of the G.F.I.W. made visits to military units,
Iraqi troops and saw high morale
martyrs. The last visit was to Qasr Shirin where we met
want to talk about their families
and Splendid mood among all troopers. They did not
requires all their efforts.
because they said they are doing their sacred duty, which
ड् donation. An incident giving
"The G.F.I.W. also made several campaigns for blood

case of an Iraqi soldier who
example of the noble humanitarian character of Iraqis is the
donated blood for a Persian prisoner of war? ~ '
the heroic Operations of the Iraqi
"The G. F.| .W. also publishes pamphlets showing
and Party Leadership. It keeps in touch
armed forces and the cohesion of the people, army

devoIOpments.
with foreign and international organisations to inform true
women through meetings,
"The social mobilization unit undertakes guidance of Iraqi
among them in the present conditions.
to impart consciousness and disseminate discipline

They are also given instruction of first aid.

न्हींआँशैकैकैकंथींर्थीवीत्रीश्ली

कैच्छेओं'झेत्रीच्छेन्हींन्हीं"वीथींच्छी'ल्लेमृहैफै'दृहे"थींथींकंत्रीवीत्रीओंशैन्हींन्हींरुँ

