ABOUT TH I S P LAY
Padmashri Chiranjit’s play “BILWA MANGAL Kl AANKHEN" is a
stage-adaptation of his own famous radio-play of the same title. As a stage-play
“BILWA MANGAL Kl AANKHEN" is a unique kind of experiment in the
modern Hindi dramatic literature, as it deals with the life and psychology of a
stage-actor, who lived his role not only on the stage; but in his private life also.
That actor is supposed to be the pOpuIar hero of late Agha Hashr
Kashmiri's famous play “Bilwa Mangal urf Bhakta Surdas”, which used to be a

hit during the hey-day of the commercial theatre known as Parsi Theatre about
three-four decades ago.
Late Agha Hashr Kashmiri, the veteran playwright of the Parsi Theatre,
based his play “Bilwamangal urf Bhakta Surdas” on a popular legend connected
with the life—history of the famous saint poet Surdas dating back to the period
of Emperor Akbar. According to the legend, Bilwamangal was madly in love
with a dancing girl, Chintamani by name. Once he went to see her across the
river, braving all the hazards and perils of a stormy night. She scolded him
and by diverting his carnal love to Spiritualism made him a devotee of Lord
Krishna. After becoming a Sadhu, Bilwamangal again fell a prey to his carnal
He
desires by seing the beautiful wife of a god - fearing businessman.
attributed his sinful carnality to his eyes and by striking them with needless he
became a blindrnan - Surdas.
Agha Hashr Kashmiri immortalized

this legend in his play, which has

been used as a back-drop by Shri Chiranjit for his play “BILWAMANGAL Kl
AANKHEN”.

Balam, the hero of Shri

Chiraniit's play is confronted with hls

past on a stormy night in Bombay and is surprised to find that he has not been
able to shake off the mould of Bilwamangal’s character, which he used to enact
on the stage.

Fate makes him relieve that role again.

An other important feature of Shri Chiranjit’s play is the masterly
justaposition of theatrical values of the old theatre and the modern theatre in
its frame-work.

