O U R DIRECTOR (I l)

MASTER CHAMPA LAL

Master Champa Lal was initiated to the world of Dance, Drama and Music at a
tender age.
In 1915, his maternal uncle Shri Punam Chand ji took him to the
I Coreanthan Theatrical Company at Calcutta. He underwent a severe test for admission
at the hands of Nosherwanji Sarkari and, out of 24_ candidates, he alone was selected.

He received intensive training in which he was required to practice songs for 108
different dramas.

At the Coreanthan Company, he was a pupil of Late Agha Hashr

Kashrniri and remained attached with him for 12 years.

He was also a pupil of

Shambhu Maharaj, Ashique Hussain and Guru Behari Lal ji.

After a record period of

six months, he made his ﬁrst appearance on stage when he portryed a female character

“Phoolwali” in the play “Chandrawali”. In this play, his song “Lo Phool Jani we"
received popularity. At the early age of 18 years, he secured the position as Assistant
Directorand Dance Master. He is the ﬁrst person in the country who trained Anglo-Indian
girls in Dance, which include popular film stars like Maya Banerji, Patience Cooper,
Rose, Ramola and Pearl.

Film star Noor Jehan is also one of his many other trainees.

On the stage, his male roles as Gulfan in “lnder Sabha", Prern Nath in
“Dil-Ki-Pyas”, Farhad in “Shirin Farhad" were widely acclaimed.
In late Agha
Hashr Kashrniri’s play “Bilwamangal”, he portrayed the character of Chintamani. He
actively participated in the activities of New Alfred Company, lrnperial Company,
Brittania Company, Alexandra Company and Shah dehan Theatrical Company. In 1946,
he came over to Delhi with the last named Company.

Master Charnpa Lal made his way to the Silver Screen also. Among several ﬁlms
in which he appeared, Laila Majnu, Zshri Sanp, Toofan Mail, Muflis Ashique are noteworthy. He also produced his own ﬁlm tifled “Chulbuli Mashooque".

He is well known in every nook and corner in the country. A top artist of
Television and All lndia,Radia, he is working at present as Director in Delhi Cloth
Mills Dramatic Club. In the play “Bilwamangal Ki Aanken", he has directed the flashback scenes drawn from the Natak “Bilwamangal Urf Bhakt Surdas”.

