भारत भवन आज हमारे समाज में जो सूजन सम्भव है उसकी महिमा, व्याप्ति, पीडा और अभिवति के रूपाकार प्रत्यक्ष करने का एक उपक्रम

रखांकन.
गहरा
का
रियता
सजन-सक्
की
ता
नागरिक
है
1 3 फरवरी 1982 को भारत की प्रधानमंत्री- श्रीमती हाँ-दरा गांधी ने प्रदेश की देश-विदेश के दो सौ से अधिक श्रेष्ठ चित्रकारों साहित्यकारों,
संगीतकारों नृत्यकारों, रंगकर्मियों, लोक, कलाकारों, फित्न्मकारों, बुद्धिजीवियों के समक्ष कलाओं म उत्कृष्टता के इस राष्ट्र'रैय केन्द्र का शुभारंभ
किया .

inevitable splendour. A part of all that is outstanding and of standing value being created in
the country and the State—be it in the cities or villages and in the remote jungles—is collected
here. Bharat Bhavan palpitates with the hope, the anxiety, the imagination, the pain, the joy
and the struggle of the community of creative workers. The emphasis here is not on what has
already been achieved but what is happening today; Bharat Bhavan is a conjuction of today
and now, it is a salutation to the unquenchable desire of even the commonest of men for creative
expression and self-realization.
Bharat Bhavan is an eﬂort to give concrete expression to the glory, the presence, the pain
and the wonder of all that is creatively possible in our society today—a deep iconograph of the

creative actiyity of our citizenry.
This national centre for excellence in the arts was inaugurated on February 13, 1982 by the
Prime Minister of India, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in the presence of more than 200 eminent artists,

literateurs, musicians, dancers, theatre artists, folk artists. ﬁlm-makers and intellectuals from the
State, the country and from abroad.

९

concerts, listen to poetry readings and discussions and watch plays without hesitation or awe
and experience the beauty of nature and the beauty of creation as an unbreakable and

श्री पीटर बुक,

In this non—building (non—building because its arChitecture is so unobtrusive that the whole
building cannot be seen from any one point) the lay public can visit art galleries, attend music

श्री गिरीश करनाड,
श्री ब. व. कारंत,
श्री श्यामानन्द जालान ओर मठ ३श क अन्य कलाकार

Bharat Bhavan situated on the bank of the big lake in Bhopal is a new home ior the ﬁne arts,
theatre, poetry and music. Here, not only the arts and literature co-exist as neighbours, but
they are also eager for a creative interaction, to unfold an intimate and palpable environment
for contemporary expression, experimentation, thought and mores. Bharat Bhavan is a new and
active centre for all those creative workers who want to do something new and meaningful,
bold and visionary, challenging and insiteful in the contemporary scene.

