descended upon Bhopal last fortnight, architect
Charles Correa jockingly remarks: "If a bomb
fell in this city just now, the future of Indian
art would be assured ............
Sunil Sethi in India Today, New Delhi, 15
March 1982

. ........... Bharat Bhavan is the single most
important cultural (using that word in the
broadest sense) happening, in conception and
achievement, since independence. Its triumph
is threefold; it promises to become one of the
ﬁnest visual and performing art centres in India ;

during its inauguration it gathered together
artistes from most diverse—indeed warringschools and welded them into a group perhaps
not always harmonious but still working together
with a sense that higher things were at stake
than their differences; and ﬁnally (to me the
most important) the people have come and taken
possession of the Bhavan as their rightful
property. Peasants, burqa-clad women, children

words "the eye
contemplate".

can

rest

and

the

mind

Iqbal Masud in Sunday Observer. Bombay 7 March 1982

Today when the soul destroying culture of
commercial movies is threatening to blot out
thousands of years of cultural excellence and turn
Indians into a large mass of mediority, exposure
to the classical as well as. all extant folk and
tribal art is a priority that cannot be ignored.

Battling against a common enemy Indian art and
culture need an incentive not only to survive
but to retain its identity. This becomes even

more urgent in the new climate of self-conﬁdence
which is gradually becoming apparent in India.
The cultural roots embedded in our past can
provide the moorings in humanism for a generation which will otherwise ﬂounder in a greedy
world of materialism ............
Chandra Chari
September 1982

in

the India

Magazine,

New

Delhi,

of all classes, wander in and out of its halls
without a touch of nervousness or selfconsciousness. The last day I watched a ﬁrst

rate Malwi folk show. ensconced between two
village families whose babies crawled all over
me. Show me one culture house anywhere else .
where that kind of thing can happen ............

BHARA'I‘ BHAVAN—~A DREAM COME TRUE
............ BHARA'I‘ BHAVAN is a place one
suddenly feels at home in, that is if one loves
poetry, music, painting, tribal art and theatre

with equal

fervour.

Three

Shelllike

domes

Remembering the trauma of my ﬁrst encounter

much like lop-sided ice-cream cones are the only
distinctive outward features ............

with New York’s great museums (except the

............ Bharat Bhavan is one of the most

Guggenheim), London’s British Museum and the
Louvre of Paris, I am thankful for the graceful

ambitious ventures of its kind.

space of Bharat Bhavan where, to . use Correa’s

Madhya Pradesh Government for having brought

It is in fact a

labour of love and one must be grateful to the

