briARA'I‘ BHAVAN : A DREAM TAKES SHAPE
About 25,000 people attended the ceremonial
opening by Mrs. Gandhi and as a museum curator
put it, "It was straight out of Cecil B. de Mille”.

Monica Correa, the wife of the architect said, "it
was fantastic. There was magic in the air”.
And, indeed, the people who took part in the
inaugural week of exhibitions and performances
were a real Who’s Who of Indian art and culture;
India’s most famous modern artists, respected
elderly traditionalists, poets, musicians, dancers,
writers, ﬁlm directors, theatre people, including

Peter Brook and Shombhu Mitra.

It was easier

to count who was not there.
All rubbing
shoulders without any self-consciousness with
MP’s picturesque tribal artists. It was heady
and exciting and stimulating ............
Amita Malik in Indian Express NeW' Delhi, 14 March,
1982

वागर्थ द्वारा औयोजित काव्य पाठ में मराठी कवि श्री तुलसी परब
into realization a dream many artists must have
dreamt ............

Yet its uniqueness may lie in the fact that Bharat
Bhavan has been designed as a multi-arts
complex. It is an activity centre.
I was

repeatedly assured, and the informing idea seems
to be to encourage in the creative fraternity, a

Kavita Nagpal in Hindustan Times, Delhi, 23 February

free

1982.

represented there; the plastic arts, the perform-

BHOPAL :

THE CULTURAL CAPITAL

........... It is a place where art will ﬂourish all
the year round, not art of Bhopal or Madhya
Pradesh but the entire gamut of art that we have
' inherited from our forefathers ............

ﬂow of ideas

between ._ the

disciplines

ing arts and the visual arts. In other words, to
encourage a certain introspectiOn as to common
impulses, roots, motivations. As such it signiﬁes
a coming of age, no less, whether it succeeds or
not. This is its true importance.
. ........... They (artists) said the BhaVan was

unique in that the Government had no helped
Editorial in Nagpur Times, 20 February 1982

set up anything like it elsewhere in the land.

