३ सम्मतियाँ
यह कायेंदेखकर अदभुत लगा.
कृष्णराव संकर पंक्ति
संगीतज्ञ तानसेन नगर को
14 फरवरी 82
............ My personal gratitude for bringing of!
the wonderful

Bharat Bhavan

complex along

with your colleagues. Your contribution will be
the only big example of decentralisation of
culture, which we can think of as a model in
the Kripalani Commission, which has been set
up to consider decentralisation of culture .........
MULK RAJ ANAND, Writer, Bombay.

............ It is a ﬂow into each other. The space
is very beautiful. You create a cultural
atmosphere, just one gallery here, another
exhibition there, a theatre there, all into one on
this ﬂoor ............
overwhelmed by the
I am tremendously
number of people I met here and associated with
them. It is a marvellous occassion ............
GIRISH KARNAD, Film Director, Bombay.

To me it looks like many splendid trees - with
beautiful fruits and ﬂowers all the branches

Every individual who values the arts should be
grateful to everyone who is involved in any
visual arts
manner with the non-performing
should feel indebted to you for being the
artitects of Roopankar museum

resplendent with leaves and it is up to us, me
and you and our friends to pluck whatever they

PRANABRANJAN RAY, Art Critic, Calcutta.

want. It is here they have given us so much
richness and I feel that it is going to be a big
step forward, really a big leap forward because
as Mrs. Gandhi said yesterday, a thing like this
has not existed in India ever. It is the ﬁrst of

its kind and let us hope not the last, but it has
set a trend.

We all feel at home here.

Artists ,

themselves are managing the whole show.

It is

fantastic so that the direct involvement of artists
and the people who love the artists and the art is
there and the vision we carry forward very
directly.
Yamlnl Krishnamurthy, Dancer.

The concept and the execution of this excellent
idea is unique in our country. The collection of
exhibits of Adivasi arts and other arte-facts is
superb. I have not seen such a collection in my
life before. Bharat Bhavan is bound to be a

special place to visit for those who are interested

in knowing our culture especially the folk arts
and its place in day to day living of our simple
but very articulate tribal society.
NANUBHAI AMIN, Jyoti Limited, Baroda.

