True blue Shylock
~ न “lr' ’ih‘ft‘lli’Y

twice director

l i i h ls \ ८३ ' S
\IICKRSU. «APADIA waxed the role 0' the moving-lender

1

He गृहं s u‘ it 133५८९ -२ दृ E that although the Jt‘l‘. his .ilwtivs
1‘9?” nortmved its an .iri‘h—\ iiillll he is honest to himself
.2 iii In es with the harsh real tv of dilli-SellilllSlil

Point of discord
Dialogues and characterisation prevent
Vii: Guest List horn degenerating into
slapstick. TlAM VIVA reports

EXCERPTS 0F INTERVIEW
WITH THE DIRECTOR
3५111 did \ou enact Shah-speare’
b

भै

't\2 भारे ४

Rn ct l" गा १८१५५
tilt
tin bi: ~eat
५. के .
‘\ \Iztl८५५८५ e
L'Wlut made you select "It Merchant! ofb'rrua‘r?
1९५ a t en [\mvr'm plat Lu: eastlt succeed
stage
at. it~ .1 ८८५ turned. Cu: m- as.ed
the in . I curstder it .b. atvte :1; Shin ~ met
tor Illa «tunes-t! tituehter ‘(\(l(1 Um I hunted

Il- d; slut.va Jo .' l

auto adapted the script?
I did it mtsc' lr the nrtgtru.‘ it would ban
taken three 11१५..- .i:.i more i Ind to cut it down
it rtw hours .L’ter mutt-g the mltul pines lake
Slitiui» speech "her. a स्ति- lm eyes ' andPrint.»
tamctcu \rercl’i धा the .iurttoomrxene on 'usl'ixt
and clemenct This: are ill: inclines or the put ’
Ll Ls peodtadit;
Wt in India2
Y5 it Lx 0t mime. स्थ्यश्चादु am p'ut in India
is dtﬂieult Producing Jaime is like runriitic
1 “Ha
r. है -u Lee; Killing mam a time and get
ting up again i: nmL an enormous effort

Shyloctt‘s Iamentation as a
Jew that occurs in the
Meridian! at Venice, penned
by William Shakespeare
between 1695 and 1698,
minors the age-old
persecution at that race in
the West. Originally called
IIie Jeir of Venice. the
Bard‘s play was based on
the calumny ot Jews that
bears the closest
imprint of Shyloctt

Cb Shaman blank Rn: too difﬁcult!
Blank verse is indeed ditt'icult and needs a lot

From a distance you can easily
identify the artwork as the iconic
scene from Satyaiit Ra) s movie
Charulata. where the rotagontst
looks through her fund eld binoculars Go closer and you kill find a
series ol'dou clustered around lilies by
French artist Luz Blanca Similarly.
there is a "up of India, which can be
identified from a distance but blurs
when you mote closer It is a digital
representation made by another
French artist [tidtmc
L In an
exhibition at India International
Centre titled Inside, these rim artists
have attempted ll) show that technol
ogt. tiai has a soul
Two of Blanco’t artwrirtct titled
dot tt tilt L‘miom Mere "'टाडा
tntngumg,owing to the fact that they
५८१८1।।
lrxictnblatltnkand
the other tn red; on a pica iii cloth
1
trim amedieval bile that
only a toting Virgin can touch and
catcha urticom 'I'he Win ts a tcry
strong and poetical tyrtibiil cit \(XUall
it‘- and also a kind til 313.5le Pdcn
in ५111८11 sexuality is represented like
a magical act] the explained

lale in ‘8x1 0 inches tipjapl’icr 'I'l SH \R K \VIT \I' l\'I)Kl
(upriiro tlic
क्या ut the Lin thriiuzli |L\ pie-mic.
n-airiumrmres and fcsrnalt
s tom as the tther
A.”h
doon
ha श्या
Mk»

ol' V the
I it
Sb;

opened. a woman
grabbed the
शा

I
क्या upby उष्ण Nam Mandal who has I lit क्या has been
c; six: «iii theश्या
and Charm oi Ddh: from its mundane
i et pulsating daily hi: ‘I
m owed to make त्मा aware
ui' D
छिद्र even श्या पंडा are lmrg here ell-ii that tho haten't seen
itit aten low urn-f Mandal
us
There tune a tenet at p: - .

tutu unit-ii skpoc’kd ll'x old
श्या श्या r1 Deth
Ir shcmcased Qtnub Minat
Ith a true which has lat: its
क्या It was captued in tugh

a ﬂy its.हुधि tn: Lidia:up“
tl'mthe मिय1९1प्राया The Pr‘)
Win his at. i ind mश्या
trasi the putting: cits iii—uh
yet-n ﬁelds and “mam
At a Lnbuu to the .trv i क्या.
a hazy mus. pimple win don e spurt be showcased a crowd in
t get the time to आस्था their test;
vats or spend sum time nth thu any rings. so caught
are tnthe क्या o: श्या timings.
The most प्रध्दष्टाद्वा1ढंह्र pan
0‘ the श्या has the datum bang
Itaav
maid]: at M traffic शाक्ति mic. ar.. h‘hu \urals still in the
ids
glancing
a:
it
“Thu
tt
but- he pics or. tn a man; ९31३ l».Hmong it bun with their work
lid bk “lug arr-y rqard 1८ i ltt'e
lam ﬂ’ahut’ct'itL- Had Manda

०

El Finally. you used stylisation in your sets
tliग्य u 1०u L. .
| id not want it to be a play of sacral realism.
l'JICnSlYt stylisatton of the misc-en some added
er dimensionto the actors dialogues and body
movements.

While most city [\It|\'\ ii-iiil in liilliiw the .\'i~il
\intitn template. The (mi-tr 1 iii 1।।८५ to keep II very
original and 1)दृ111।च्चा.८।।1।।५ And though we expect
cit II to दु।। several I\0lLllt‘\ tlt‘cpt‘r. शीश tlcniiuenicnt
kind oi shallowcdiiut quilt-.1 lui .»\ potential
that
t'aporitt-sl all] too \udtlciily Mirth like Nikuiii‘t
mood tWings Next time. the» ciiulil also work on
the acoustics a bit more
.‘tlarital discord has been the print of most
recent plays but Shanna did not want to bring to
the tla "ए what had already been performed bciotc
He Sills. “Most oflhe pla s which deal wtth marital discord centre artiun either .i newlyrmarricd
cou It or a couple a few years into their marria c.
l d|§n0l want to delve into that subject in my p ay
because it has been often enacted I was always
intrigued by what happens to two people after they
get a divorce. The idea appealed to me because there
are not many pla *s which consider that angle, 50
I made that the icy point of my play. My script
explores how the dynamics of the relationship
between a couple changes after they have been
divorced for three years.
Interestingly. he alsobrought a shrink intothe
play. which we found didactic. In his defence. the
director said. ‘The first of the play I wanted to keep
lt ht की wrth bits and pieces of comedy. But then
w en the two couples get locked in a room, their
pcnt tip emotions start coming out Now. every sitr
uation has a logical reasonin . which needs to be
explained. Here in the plti '. the couples are light»
ing and bickering with ac other and they are not
ready to listen to what the other is trying to say.
An external agent is required to drive some sense
and reason into them. That is where the shrink
comes in. She explains to the audience whythe cou»
ple are fighting and also to drive some reason into
them. She is the embodiment of the logical reason
ofthc play.“
Shartiia's directorial inspirations came from his
love for American sitcoms. "I have tried to use the
concept of American sitcoms. These shows are
hardly dependent on Will cine-liners and sarcastic comments which are also humorous. Another
aspect of these shows which I used in my play is
minimum use ofprops." he concluded.

The soul of dots
Artist Luz Blanca uses dots to give shape to tier art works while Ludovic
Bernhardt tries to blur the
boundaries which divide nation through graphical representations
They speak to SHRABASTI MALLIK
I".

:

८
E-

ﬂ ' ‘ r-

til cflun to learn Actors have to put in enormous
practice and make II a pan of habit.

itiucili 1५111५'५५1111 ५।11'.।1रु1३'1<'।।।।.।1 Illt‘\t' 11.।।५
Ciiir itvt‘kcuil t‘\t'ltlllLZ\, t'i-.itiiiiii_ci limi-r than
stand up tits 1 ntlivisiiuiliblt. l-iiplixli plan in
,\'\ ।२य।।हाँ९४औ१"ए९"ना'औतापयता।श्चि४"गाध्या[,
in 1५ 111.।। 1१11८' its 1I\c‘IIe‘il tii SLIYItl up .iriittiw the
iuiilillc this» titnililiiin mixed tip ।दृ1.111५गा५1।।1५
.Iiiitblc cnicnilrt-s llltIIIlgIICS \IIIIWII with «usual rcl
t'rt'uii-s .inil itu‘taplittrs .i \I'ttJIle'rll’tg iil Vt'llliltll
1.।। Itcrr .ind Illt'll' and .i run drawing riiiiiu \CI
tiricv \\itli \lltll 1३।रा५\11।८' to he toiiiiui'rtiil t\“tl
Jll\ rt-ss .i common denominator, prtltlllct‘l \llIt‘t
tor Adhirai Sharnm keeps it mutt, llt'Illlt" over the
top. not under the-bull with hit I‘Iic (illt'Sl Iitl.
\tiipcd at 111१11.11१।1.11(ट्वें९।11।'८०स्था। 1111' \i'cckcntl And
he ffllt's iin Illt' good old pllllslplc‘ Ill tiiiiiii; Illth
गायु .iriil puns lii ilchlt'bl.‘ the giiltural laughs
t is about two urban estranged couplcx.
\\hl\\t‘ tlit'iirte lawyer, an unseen Mr \'erm.t.
1111'11९५ them to .i cl|)\(‘tl door private iarty He collltlt“ lltt‘lll butautc lit- ht‘l|€\'t‘\ Iii: hadn't been cons
\"iiiccd b\ whether their marital breakdown had
lnth’t‘tl been lttt‘ltlt’YJbIt‘ or not Sittitity. intelleciual .iitil .irrugant antiqui- dcalcr Roy Chatterji is
too lull iii luntsclftn acttimrriodatc his Puniahi eitr
M‘IIL' Jlltl cgnittic author Ashima Khurana. a
woman sit (Ultnlck'tl that the has been at war With
her own sense of identity. leading Roy to believe
that she could he .i lesbian. It is Roy's refusal to
.itcept her as an equal and constant derision of her
capabilities Ihal make but appear schizophrenic
lhcn there't slow and dumb car rental owner
Nikuni. a wannabe gentleman With a olden
hcart. who has subsumed his identity to his high»
it qualiﬁed. archaeologist Tamilian Wife. Gnuri
Bharti Muralt.
Locked in a room. through Situational twists
and turns. the couples carp and rilc :it each other.
revisit their past. take a dig at each other's cultural muiitiri ’s despite their melting ml oflm't‘ and
uridcrstan their differences when the shrink analytes the root oftheir problems. But do they everride them in the end? Instead the lapse into the
same rigmarolc ofcorn lamts andcounter-complaints. It is really a आणा e play but director Adhiraj
Sharma extracts line performances out ofliis cast.
iarticularly Gaurav Attilani. who playsNikunj, He
himself slips into the role ofa Bengali culture con notsseur rather effortlesst with just the right degree
of restraint and sophistication. Shniti Khattar, who
plays the ﬁery Ashima Kliuraria. embodies the character's Vibrant Punjabiyat to a tee and manages to
be suitably soil in her moments of reverie. Kaavya
Bector as the control freak and maternal wife of
Nikuny looks upti ht but it is Mohak Paint as a late
entrant shrink. w 0 plays her role of ring master
' with sophistication and believable strictnesst

The dots that the um in express
1.८। art it curtipltcaiui and rcituirct a
tin-alter
arnalunl tit'cim—ntratxm
'II M a trim. and nwditatrrc work: the
saidand
tlcittiicartiiintlu
exited lit a ccfuut mutt by the ltﬁxr
realiiii. ttyle and art क्या।" iii the Tm.
which questioned the mechanical
process tit makmg "1१८८० ‘Arid Im
wot"- it also m the mid way titctrtbrui
den and crimptnﬂ Wren 1 ८1।८५. the
image d-icti-it appear imiitedutely
and rr-‘cal tttdi with time. when the
drawing it lintshcd' the elah-iratu

शक्या it tilt a’ur)1ltir.,r h readable
मध्या .i certain
c and le\
picture comet clma 'it i.
like a memory whidi scrim tutnc
tiriics twat and sometimes ciirilwti;

arid uricleat' the hud
(in: in hcl rtnihit» tirlrit
FYJMU क्या .Ht‘mvr) i, "1८1८ «it tit.limp roll: of paper आफै .I rrA‘I.K‘Jl-l:
image There is .i small ip IKihtcli
the twin the-ins tit क्या : it cl. it.
i

"हूडा '_

०

a e.

ti it til

the im e trorii the middle I‘llmclr
क्यों ~hit this drawing we under
tund that ll tnmet trim: pant «if it,
the presence "I [lie space talks about
riblrniin llorgctlulncssl 'lhtt ima it

meantiii midiicuun oi collective~ ha
eroclitc. dauling and anonymous
memories She Laid. ‘I'm verytimde
by I 'liitmltuat. What it Mcriul II]this
music it the idenuty til: woman. who

nit term; like the when lit lust .i rag

becomes an aunt and a writer Like a
revelation It) turpan (in! own bani

ment which seems tiihate ditticultict
ti. neuter Ill rind, ittciinteit It II lust

in . trig papal mii that \ytllbtilitc\ the
which itiltlt iii mutiny“
I~iir her tcrict til 1 harulata paint
शाहा the has placed personal phii
'iwaptit in आणा ril stilli picked up
iriim iii; mm K' arai capl- ml IKTItintrK
.t. nullity iii lict . inertia H a

as. (itittaclet and doubts“
the ariitt belies-rt that [lit qua
tiiiri iil memory it! retrillccliiin 'u a

paradiititaliinc. lt mVuIVC‘ Ilul which
we want memory It i retain in nu to
retain Additionally. mcnmry .m be

com iared iii rib-Irwin. था।। til a \alll'
tit: >alartte. tit rather a pure main

ttrtiction of reality she tries to create
a dialogue between nicmti ry an
iiblmun through her work 'मिलो
image I crcate has a paradox between
clear-nets and disappearante The
more we are close. thelets we are able
to rnd IL \thn we are far भा' श्या read
it '
'. Lil:
'. which contains

cm. .i

at an

A chunk o! Bernhaldt's work it a
rcpruentaiion of ma from allacnnt
the क्यों I It begun imbueno W
सादु {mm the Internet and then dii
Iu i it with a digital protest. 'Aiii-r
that 1 णाझ्या’ It on paper by hand I use

’0

a rid to reproduce exactly the dist»
map on the paper. It is likea copyist exercrsc frum a digital file.‘ be
It is a long process, With one
piece sometimes taking about amonth
to complete.
When we askedhim aboutthe origin of the technique. he smiled and
said that it is his own creation. 'iity
own ap math.“ But he also addedthat
he is tn uenced by Italian artist Boett.
Hts maps are graphic and drawing where international bouridana
.
not have the possibility ofbetn read l
or understood He Wishes to m
the l
boundaries disa pear. 'I want to blur
tlictii. so that all I information.८111८
borders. that naturally we use for Incalion.
.” hesaid and क्या that
his goal is to unify the nation state differences.and create a uttipian land or
n mtliout those lines of separation.
upOne wall DI the gallery is dedicated to
heal representations at 24
1mm like What. Dal Shukhna.
क्या and Sump: Iaktt II it a
prulect that Bernhardt made in his
computer to give it avery graphit; dig
ital art elln’t. The interestingpan was
howthe ﬁrst run:starts with .tbright
yellow colour and seamlessly clianget
to orange. coral. red and finally pink
'It‘s uite a very timple organisation
of ours. i a painter can do With
his own palette, It is also like a spatrurn color el'fn't. freely ap ed to the
' shapes.” hr: said. con turn that
he had never been to any of thc
दृ
He explained. "they are like a Ianla~
ty. But their shapes are authentically
reproduced from digital maps'
There are also representations of
the north and mill Hemis‘phern but
they have been resented itIert-rttly,
'lt'i also a digi production duiyi.’ .‘
hi: KM us The
haw bum
turned into Rorschach psycho test
motives "For me. geography u not an
exact science. but an ideological representation iii the world. A map it not
areality. in a i‘ictiiin. and oiteri it‘s an
to?
fiction, It it .arepltlcntt
iron 0 the world. not its reality.” it
added.
\

.9

