M i t ro

MITRO MARJANI is a novel in Hindi by the famous writer
Smt. Krishna Sobti. It is a folk lore like story of Mitro born of Balo who
due to circumstances led the life of a fallen woman. Mitro is married into a
lower middle class joint family. Gurudas, the head of the family, and his wife
Dhanwanti have led a peaceful and cordial life with their elders. But times
have changed. Their three sons Banwari married to Suhag, Sardari married
to Mitro and Gulzari married to Phoolawanti are pulling apart and thus create
a crack in the traditional attitudes. Particularly the attitudes of Mitro, her bold
and uninhibited way of thinking and her unbridled tongue shock every one in
the family. When slowly and gradually her family background is disclosed,
she becomes the talk of the town. She openly talks about sex, her beauty and
the hunger of her body and the coldness of her husband. It shocks everyone.
There are rumours around aboul Mitro’s unfaithfulness to her husband.
Sardari,

her

husband,

often hears vulgar remarks about Mitro in the market

which always keeps him tense, even when he is alone with her. When she
produces three thousand rupees to get Sardari out of his ﬁnancial difﬁculties
he is suspicious : ‘How could she have collected this amount’? But Mitro’s
bitter-sweet tongue shuts him up. ‘I am the only daughter of my mother’,
5a y 8 5he .

both
Suhag, the elder daughter-in-law and the youngest one Phoolan are

The mother
expecting. This frustrates Mitro who blames her husband for this.
needs a change
in-law is sympathetic towards her and suggests to her that Mitro
Sardari in her absence ‘
and should go to her mother’s house for some time and
Sardari also with her.
will also feel relaxed. She jumps at the idea but takes

The atmosphere in Balo’s small town is hostile.

When Mitro enters the

cut vulgar remarks at her. But
town with her husband, shopkeepers in the Bazar

ng looks shuts up everyshe walks through the bazar proudly and with her burni
days
one.

There is no end to the mother’s joy.

She is reminded of her young

