Synopsis ofBehula‘r Bhdsdn

Behulcir Bhdscin opens with a bandami (song of salutation) addressed to Sarasvati, Manasa,
Fatima (the Prophet’s daughter), Allah, the Prophet, all the p‘irs, the four directions, the Sun,
Dharma, Adam, Hawa (Eve), the preceptors of the performers, the spectators and all the human
beings. The opening episode of the play shows Behula lamenting the death of Laksmindar,
immediately followed by Cad Saodagar laying the blame of his son’s death squarely on her.
Having thus confronted the ﬁrst male prototype, she decides to set off with the dead body of her
husband on a raft. The following six episodes present Behula’s experience with six more male
prototypes. In these scenes, Manasa does not intervene (as in the Manasc‘z-mahgab to help
Behula out of crisis, and each scene is punctuated by a choral song of her journey on the river of
Life.

In the second episode, Behula encounters Goda, a man with elephantitis and the second male
prototype: one who colonises the female body with his insidious desires. He may not touch her
physically, but possesses her with lecherous and slimy fantasies the moment he lays his eyes on
her. Behula escapes with a false promise of marriage.
In the third episode, Behula encounters her brother, Hari Sadhu, the third male prototype: one
who binds and ‘protects’ with love. Moved by pity, he offers shelter to his widowed sister and
vows to protect her. However, Behula realizes that a widow has no right at her parental home
and forces herself to reject her brother’s offer.

The fourth male prototype is a mendicant who wishes to use her for his quest of salvation.
Behula manages to escape from his design by challenging him to prove his power by reviving
Laksmindar.
In the next episode, Behula meets the.f1fth male prototype, a suave trickster, who has lost all his
wealth and even his children and four wives in gambling. Out of sympathy for the man, she
offers him her precious ring, so that he may make a fresh start in his life. However, she ﬁnds out
moments later that the man’s passion for gambling is incorrigible.

In the sixth episode, Behula succumbs to the next male prototype, the Vulture/muscleman and
his gang. She offers to bedeck them with jewels after her return but they are relentless in their
pursuit of her body. After attempting to resist them with her knife, she is violently overtaken and
can continue her journey only after she pays with her body.
In the seventh episode, Behula confronts Laksmindar’s uncle Narayan Dani, who reveals to her
that Laksmindar raped his wife. He seeks to restore his macho pride by raping Behula. This bit
of revelation of her husband’s past shatters Behula as she realizes that Laksmindar is no better
than the seven males she has known. Thus confronted with the seven male prototypes summed
up in the dead body of her husband, Behula begins to question the validity of her journey and
acknowledges the futility of reviving Laksmindar back to life.

The play ends with a maizgala-gz‘r (a song of well-being), in which the performers recognize that
Behula, their dear sister and daughter, is still aﬂoat in her raft in the rain-clouds and the
netherworld of Bangladesh. They bless her so that she may end her journey with her desires
fulﬁlled. They also bless the seven male prototypes she met at the seven bends of the river of
Life, so that they redeem themselves. They seek forgiveness from the spectators for their failings
and ask them to sing a song of gender 'un-difference' recognizing that one is neither a male nor a
female but a human being.
This, brieﬂy, is Behuldr Bhdsc‘m, a play which, according to Al—Mahrnud (one of the leading
poets of Bangladesh), “is heralding in the theatre movement of Bangladesh a new wave of
performance and directorial sensibility that is envisioned with a subterranean stream of
traditional elements.”

