Behuldr Bhdsdn : Director’s Note

Quite a few performances in Bangladesh are based on a body of texts that seek to establish
the worship of Manasa, the goddess of serpents, who is unquestionably a Bengali deity.
Commonly known as the Padmd-pura‘rz or the Manasd—maﬁgal, these narratives in rhymed
metrical verse were composed mostly from the 15th to the 18th centuries and belong to a
genre of medieval literature known as the maligalakdbya (lit. ‘auspicious poetry’ or ‘poems
of well-being’). Two central characters presented in these performances are Manasa, the
‘illegitimate’ daughter of Siva, and Behula, the wife of Laksmindar. These two characters
may well represent the ‘Female Other’ deeply embedded in popular Male imagination in
Bangladesh and West Bengal (India). The Female Other can be a deity or a mortal. As a
deity, she is wrathful, but generous if she is propitiated. Her 'moral‘ status is problematic
because her birth is questionable, her spouse abandons her, she lives with her female

companion Neta and has no place in the court of the gods. But, as the etymological root of
her name mdnas, (i.e., “desire, will”) signiﬁes, she desires and wills it so that the whole

world submits to her and she wins her rightful place in the company of heavenly gods. But
in order to do that, she has to conspire, scheme and wreck havoc on her arch enemy — a
male — the merchant-prince and ardent devotee of §iva named C‘ad saodagar. In the most
Vicious of these schemes, she has Dad's son Laksmindar killed on the night of his wedding
by snakebite. Whereas Manasa's virtue is questionable, Behula's is not. But if Manasa can
risk living the existence of a single woman, Behula cannot. If a woman is a mortal and her
husband is dead, her existence is indeterminate for she can neither claim a place in the
household of her husband's family, nor in her father's family. However Behula does not
jump on the funeral pyre of her newly wed husband Laksmindar. She sails down a river on
a raft with his body, withstands attempted molestation by hostile men, reaches the abode of
the gods, wins $iva's favour by dancing in the court of the gods and brings her husband
back to life. Nevertheless, when she returns home, she has to pay the price with a test by
ﬁre. Ironically, because of all these accomplishments, she cannot win her rightful place
among the mortals but has to ascend to heaven with her husband.
The female presence that underpins the Padmd—purc'm has been strongly recuperated in
Behuldr Bhdsim, a play performed by the students of the Department of Theatre and Music,

University of Dhaka. The text is based on excerpts drawn from six Padmc‘z-purc’m texts by
Narayan Deb, Bijay Gupta, Ketakadas Ksemananda, Bipradas Pipilai, ‘Bais Kabi’ and
Tantra Bibhﬁti. The play incorporates techniques drawn from popular performances of the
Padmd-pur'c‘zgz seen in the rural areas and (re)presents Behula, a popular archetype of the
Bengali woman. It explores a central problem still unresolved in the collective unconscious
of the Bengali people: how is a (married) woman positioned without her husband? Unable
to accord any place in the society, it throws a challenge: be a Virtuous woman and die
before your husband or stay virtuous and bring your husband back to life. There is no
denying that the problem is typically patriarchal and phallocentric in its nature. However,
one must also take into cognizance that the patriarchal value system is challenged by the

very representation of Behula in the Padmd-purép, where she is shown as one who can dare
to embark on a journey alone on a raft with her dead husband.

