Proﬁle of the Playwrights

The text of Behuldr Bhasan emerged out of a production process in 2004. The ﬁrst draft of
the text was created out of a selection of verses drawn from six texts of the Padma-puran

(or the Manasa-mar'zgal) by three female students of the Department of Theatre and
Music— Farida Akhter Lima, Tania Sultana and Nahida Sultana Sati—~ as a part of their
MA coursework on indigenous theatre of Bangladesh. During rehearsals, the text was
further revised with contributions from Sydur Rahrnan Lipon, Apurba Kurnar Roy, Rokibul
Hasan and the entire cast. The ﬁnal version of the text emerged after Dr Biplob Bala added
prose narration linking the seven episodes. In the recreation of Behuldr Bhasan in 2005
with a new group of students, the text of 2004 has been retained with minor editing and
rearrangement.

Dr Biplob Bala served as a part-time faculty of the Department of Theatre and Music from
1998 to 2005. He was one of the key collaborators in shaping the text of Bisad Sindhu (a
19th century prose narrative on the Karbala tragedy by Meer Musharraf Hussein) in 1992.
He leads a theatre group named Jiyankathi and is a renowned cultural activist. Sydur
Rahman is a renowned actor. He is also a guest lecturer of the department. Ms Tania
Sultana is currently serving Stamford University as a lecturer in the Film and Media
Department, Ms Nahida Sultana teaches theatre at the Australian International Grammar
School and Ms Farida Akhter is working as a free-lance theatre practitioner.
Proﬁle of the Director

Syed Jamil Ahmed (b. 1955) is a director based in Bangladesh and a professor at the
Department of Theatre and Music, University of Dhaka. He graduated from the National
School of Drama (India) in 1978, obtained his MA in Theatre Studies from the University
of Warwick (UK) in 1989 and his PhD (on “Indigenous Theatrical Performance in

Bangladesh: Its History and Practice”) from the University of Dhaka in 1997. He founded
the Department of Theatre and Music at the University of Dhaka in 1994 and served as its
ﬁrst Chair till 1997. He has taught at the Antioch College, USA (1990), King Alfred's
College, UK (2002) and San Francisco City College, USA (2005) and has also given
numerous workshops on theatre in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Germany. He has to his
credit over 50 research essays in Bengali and English and has published in The Drama
Review (TDR), the New Theatre Quarterly (NTQ), the Asian Theatre Journal (ATJ), and

the Research in Drama Education (RiDE). His full-length publications in English are
Acinpakhi Inﬁnity: Indigenous Theatre in Bangladesh (Dhaka: University Press Limited;
2000) and In Praise of Nirarijan: Islam, Theatre, and Bangladesh (Dhaka: Pathak
Samabesh 2003).
Syed Jamil Ahmed’s performance credits include direction of over 20 plays including The
Wheel by Selim al-Deen (English translation of Cakd, jointly directed with Denny
Partridge) at the Arﬁioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, USA (1990), an adaptation of
Bisa'd Sindhu (a 19t century prose narrative on the Karbala tragedy by Meer Musharraf
Hussein) with Dhaka Padatik in Dhaka (1992), Kamala Rdnir Sdgar Dighi (devised from
the indigenous theatre form of Paid Gan performed by Islarnuddin Palakar) at the
Department of Theatre and Music, University of Dhaka (1997), Ek Hazar Aur Ek Thi Rate
(an adaptation of A Thousand and One Nights) with Tehrik-i—Niswan, in Karachi (1998),
and Behulcir Bhdsan (an adaptation of the Manasa-mahgal) with the Department of Theatre
and Music, University of Dhaka (2004 and 2005). He has also designed the set and
the
lights of over 70 performances in Bangladesh and India. He received two Fulbri
ght
fellowships (1990 and 2005), Munir Chowdhury Award (Dhaka, 1993) and Nandik
ar

National Theatre Award (Kolkata, 1999). His major areas of interest are Indigenous Theatre
of South Asia and Applied Theatre. Currently, he is working on two books on the theatre
of
South Asia and Bangladesh.

