Write-up on the Group

The performers of Behuldr Bhdsdrz are all students of the
Department of Theatre and Music, University of Dhaka. The
ﬁrst version of the play was produced in 2004, as a part of
the department’s MA coursework on the indigenous theatre
of Bangladesh. The recreated Behuldr Bhdsdn (2005) is
inspired by the fresh impulse of a new group of students of
the department — an impulse that they have drawn from the
fractured social terrain they inhabit. Living in a globalizedcolonized world ﬁssured with violence and poverty, they
realize that theatre is their only means of expression and
their solitary choice of survival. If that means is poor, then
there is hardly any alternative. Hence, Behuldr Bhdsdn is not
merely their coursework, but much more. It is the result of
their desperate attempt to endure, their impassioned praxis
framed within their reinterpretation of a core set of principles
and dreams that the department attempts to nurture in them.
The Department of Theatre and Music, since its inception in
1994, has recognized that an educational institution as a
knowledge-producing nodule can perhaps never be an
abstract principle of Truth but a source that seeks to generate
a set of ideals in a group of humans —— its students, staff and
the faculty. Because discourse, as “a fragment of history”
and a means of producing and organizing meaning within a
social context, generates knowledge and because knowledge
is always inextricably enmeshed in circuities of power,
theatre — as a production of knowledge and effect of
discourse — is always—already entangled in the circuities of
power. It is woven by numerous strands inscribed with
fragments of history (and that history, it is acknowledged, is
also a contested terrain). The Department of Theatre and
Music, i.e., all its students, staff and faculties, seek to

negotiate knowledge enmeshed in the circuities of power by
recognizing its post-colonial location in a globalized—
monopolized world. It seeks to reinvent the history of
Bangladesh created by all the ethnic communities— the
Santhals, the Marmas, the Chakrnas, the Manipuris, the

Garos, the 'Bengalis' and others, and negotiate its relation ith
the world. It recognizes that ‘tradition’ is a construction and
the narratives of nations are ﬁctions. Nevertheless, beyond
these ﬁctions and constructions, the department seeks to
engage in praxis with the problematic terrain of living and
rediscover with passion that life is a festival. Its dream is a
performance that will allow it to celebrate life beyond all
forms of boundaries — because, after all, a boundary

“indicates not that at which something stops, but [...] that
from which something begins its presencing.”

