false difference between Chanakya and

Chandragupta is projected.

All this leads to complications in act V.

Events lead to Rakshasa

trying to commit suicide in disgrace. Rakshasa’s friend, the jeweller

is about to be executed and he decides to sacrifice himself for his
friend’s life. Rakshasa gives himself upto Kautilya to save his
friend. Loyalty has forced him into the precise situations where

Kautilya wanted him, at his mercy because of Rakshasa’s inability
to be disioyal. The master has his condition : he wants
Rakshasa to accept the sword of state and serve Chandragupta,
Rakshasa accepts the conditions and
while he himself retires.
pledges his precious loyalty to the King.

D | R E C T O R ’ S NOTE
Mudrarakshasa's is
which is quite complex
play becomes relevant
political point of view.

an intriguing, well made
political play
much like our present-day situation. The
today if we look at it from an ethical,
The following points may be made ;

(i)

The role of a Minister (Chanakya) in running a state.

(ii)

The capacity for cunning in social heads which saves the
Nation

and rises above personal gains.

(iii)

Austerity of intellect is fascinating, judging from the contemporary social models.

(iv)

Political generosity in a two-party system.

(v)

Sophisticated dryness with wit and humour which again
is quite modern.

This play also offers a director and an actor an opportunity to
establish mono acting as a very strong component of the
theatre. Another interpretation about the same play can be a
modern day realistic play where espionage assumes international
dimensions and Chanakya becomes a “Bismark”. As an extraneous
stance. the play has the possibility of lending itself to present-day
allegory of the games played in politics. Using the Orwellian term
of ‘Doublespeak' it can be a version of 1984. Spicsoperat through
codified messages through telexes or telephones and Chanakya

sits, in highly guarded office with gadgets of sorts.

O

Se pte m be r 3
SARF YAGA (Kashmiri)

Produced by : lVIANASBAL DRAMATICS
Directed by : NISAR NASEEM

