“Mard Agammra”
"It was indeed a rare experience, Naver before has TagOre Theatre been filled
like this beyond even its standing capacity.
Of course those who stood in the passages
or squatted on the edge of stage obstructed
the view of those who sat, but so great was
the devotional patience of "Sangat" that
the only sounds they produced were the

“Jaikaras”, at the end of every scene of
play ‘Mard Agammra'.

Theatrical ly, the episodes were wellexecuted through good acting to the accompaniment of proper lighting and sweet
music- In some scenes, individual actors did
get the opportunity to exhibit histronic
talent."

DR. C. L. AHUJA
Head of Deptt. of English

Properly exploited, this enthusiasm
can be so channel used as to usher a community
theatre movement in Punjab. That such
a community theatre need not be communal
was best illustrated by this play its self.
The case with which Sh Charan Singh
SlNDHRA, has rnarshalled the historical
material into cinematic episodes not only
bears the imprint of his experience in the
films, but also show how wel I versed he is
with Sikh Scriptures and the SIKHLOKE.

Punjab University CHANDIGARH

The sw0rd which carved the Khalsa'e
way to glory was undoubtedly, forged by
Gum Gobind Singh, but the steel had been

provided by Guru NANAK
Of Course. since the tradition ins'sts
on keeping the Guru off stage, the task of
writing a play about a GURU is as difficult
as recasting Hemlet so as to to exclude the
Prince of Denmark.But Balwant Garg i faced
with the same problem in GAGAN MAEl
THAL. discovered the way out in a Brechti-

an College; and Si N DH RA too has followed
it with obvious dexterity though wrthout

Though he did not actually break the
shackles that bound his nation, he had set
their souls free and filled their hearts with
a lofty longing for freedom and accendancy.
He had broken the charm of sanctity attached to the lord of Delhi and destroyed the
awe and terror inspied by Mughal tyranncy"

Gargi's sleekness. Besides music here aims

3‘ "‘VOMHQ the audience in religious ecstasy
throughout rather then alienating them at

times into cool thinking.

Dr. Sir Gokal Chand Narang

