Indeed Marad Agammra
By : Joginder Singh Bedi

MARAD AGAMMRA—an ecclesiastical play by a former Public Relations Officer
of Punjab Mr. Charan Singh Sindhra, figured prominently in the state of Punjab and at all
other places where it was staged.
Doubtlessly,

its

prominence

could

be

attributed

to

the

dedication,

devotion,

and

utmost reverence with which Mr. Sindhra has projected the wondrous achievements of Guru
Gobind Singh, the tenth and the last pontiff in the Holy Sikh Office, in the sphere of the
Sikh code of conduct, culture, literature, and above all nationalism and establishment of a
theocratic democracy—a Khalsa Commonwealth based on basic democracy at Anandpur
Sahib on the day of Baisakhi in April 1699 AD.
Guru Gobind Singh has

rightly been invested with the insignia of ’Mard

Agammra'

as he was the one who had to shoulder a very high and sensitive responsibility at
the age of 9, and during the span of 33 years till his demise at 42 he produced an ocean of
literature divine, even during the period when he had to fight and fight against the fanatic

wars waged by the Moghul lmperialists.

Author of the famed Vichitra Nataka (Wondrous Drama), Zaffarnama (An epistle to
Emperor Aurangzeb), besides the Jaap Sahib, Akal Stuti, Chandi Charitra (Exploits of
Chandi), Janana Prabhodha, Chaupayan

Shabd

Hazare, Savayya Batees.Shastra-Nama

Mala, Stri Charitra and H ikayat (Tales), Guru Gobind Singh has been paid a befitting tribute
by Mr. Sindhra in his “Son at lumiere".

It is absolutely impossible for an ordinary mortal like Mr. Sindhra to do justice
to the entire contribution of this Great Guru, but even then what has been depicted through
the play on the stage is quite appreciable.
In the play, the echoes of celestial music

and rhythm and divine messages trans-

mined through the spokesrnanship of the Guru indeed impattSOlace t0 the mind OfIOdaY
which is saturated with tensions, materialistic pursuits, and "arrOW DHTOChiaI OUUOOkThe play reminds

us of the message of

Universal arnity

and

divinity

which

Guru

Gobind Singh sought to incorporate into the minds of his countrymen, Who were then
highly emotional regarding their religion, and were engaged in petty quarrels 0V6! matters
of faith in God.

