his followers i.e.
The Guru introduced a novel salutation for

Waheguru Ji Ka Khalsa,

Waheguru Ji Ki Fateh

(The Lord'a is the Khalsa, Lord's be the victory).
g :
Guru Gobind Singh broke the crust of caste by sayin
“Khalsa mero roop hai khaas,
Khalsa main hun karon niwas".
(Khalsa is my real personification, I dwell in the Khalsa).
what Mr. Charan Singh Sindhra
By Khalsa, the Guru meant the ’pUrest being‘ and this is
AGAMMRA’.
has tried to convey through his unique play ’MARAD
About the commentator :

a werking Journalist.
Mr. Joginder Singh Bedi, a former Civil Service 0! Britain, is now

The Relevance 0f Mard Agammra
Dr. Prakash

Syal

In dramatic terms, it was Brecht who forbade us to involve ourselves tooemotionally in the fables of the past and stop at that. He taught the world of the dramatic
art to dynarnise the past, to bend it to yield lessens for our present to turn it into a better
future, more glorious than the past.

It is primarily from the point of view of such dynamic

social engineering of the dramatic art of "Mard Agammra“ that I like to rate the play higher
than from that of merely narrating the fable of the great man in dramatic terms.

From the purely technical production vieWpoint, as distinguished from the concep‘
Apart frOm the
tual and philosophical standpoint, the play is commendany researched.
historical truth tending to merge with the dramatic truth, the former comes over in several

elements of production. The intangible element called the atmosphere gives a stark music"
their home work in putting on a
of reality. The green room people have obviously done
palpably truthful makeup and the costurniers do not lag behind. Not only does language
exude histOrically of the period. It is bent to yield the dramatic word too. The diction of

the performers as also their physical postUring, bodily movements and gestures is elegant
The simple but tel l-tale sets, the ensembles, the street scenes are all handled evocatively to

give us intirnations of the period portrayed.

