times—the pictures

of a country

ravaged

by war,

famine and greed.

To put Tagore’s ‘CHAR ADHAYAY’ on the stage was another daring attempt by Bohurupee.
The drama is intensely human and Bohurupee fascinated to put it on the stage for the intrinsic merit and
emotions those of love and human sacriﬁce.

After these Bohurupee produced H.

Ibsen‘s ‘AN ENEMY OF

(Dashachakra)

THE PEOPLE’

which ﬁts so well with the conditions in this country.

All these productions were successful as far as the expectation of the audience was concerned, but
Bohurupee was not satisﬁed. It wanted to go deeper in reality, to ﬁnd the essential chords of human
existence. Bohurupee felt that men live on two interdependent levels, that is, one on the individual and

the other on the social plane. And the key to portray this inter-action of the two planes was something which

Bohurupee sought for.

It was found in Rabindranath’s ‘RAKTAKARABI’.

Now it is a famous production, and we need not dwell upon the merits of the play. Bohurupee participated in the First National Drama Festival in Delhi in

1954 with Rabindranath’s ‘RAKTAKARABI’

and a social play—Tulsi Lahiri‘s ‘CHHENRA TAAR’, an earlier production of Bohurupee.

Bohurupee’s programmes

at World Theatre Conference at Bombay,

UNESCO

Conference

at

Delhi, in Dacca in a goodwill mission, at Bombay in Tagore Centenary Celebrations were highly praised
and appreciated by the connoisseur of art.

In course of this famous Tagore-play-production Bohurupee acquired knowledge of the peculiarly
Indian theatrical form.

It was not the copy of the form of Sanskrit plays, nor is it like the European mode of

expression. This gave Bohurupee an impetus to produce many other Tagore plays.

But it is not a theatre doing Tagore plays only, it has produced Ibsen, O’neil, Chekhov and other

foreign authors also.

Among the recent productions, Ibsen’s‘A DOLL’S HOUSE’

(Putul

Khela)

and

‘KANCHAN

RANGAz—a modern comedy of manners—are being successfully staged in Calcutta and have reached the
apex of honour and fame.

In its 13 years’ life, Bohurupee has been looking for theatre

in its proper form.

This everlasting

agony for theatre and drama keeps it away from any sort of satiation whatsoever, and it stretches its pa
lm to
anyone who supposes to champion the cause of true theatre.

