Boatman of my dream,

The sail is ﬁlled with a boisterous breeze
And my mad heart sings
To the lift of the rocking of thy boat

At the call of the far away landing

Bishu observes ‘as soon as one enters the maw of Yaksha

Town its jaws shut fast and

the

one

road that remains open lead within inwards’.

Chandra requests the Governor (Sarder) who appears on the scene, to grant them leave to go home,
‘give us leave, Sir, Governor, do give us leave‘. The Governor expresses ‘constant anxiety’ for their welfare.
He sends for the High Preacher, Kenaram Gossain, to give

fees will pay for his upkeep”.

moral

Phagulal reacts violently to this.

hypocrisy by Gossain, who comes in.

lessons

Follows a

to

the

men ‘whose votive

scene of sermons full of

To the Governor and the sanctimonious preacher the

men are not

individual human beings but mechanical units who are addressed and referred to by their numbers.

Chandra and Phagulal go.

Nandini comes in.

She says to Bishu, ‘in this closed form a bit of sky

survives between you and me, my Mad One’. Bishu, though a digger at present, is different element. Through
his song he refers Nandini: “O breaker of my sleep, 0 waker of my grief”. Through his songs he tells
the tragedy of his life. Nandini describes her meeting with the King inside the King‘s chamber, who is

fearful from outside but Nandini observes King‘s fatigue disposition and his longing for life.

The Governor comes in and addresses Bishu by his mechanical number 69 Ng. Bishu tells him ‘we are
discussing how to escape from this fortress of yours. The Governor expresses his surprise at this reckless
confession.

Bishu observes, ‘it does not need much cleverness to know that when a captive bird picks at the bar,
it’s not in the spirit of caress. What does it matter whether that is openly confessed or not”.

The Governor says, ‘the captive is want of love we are aware of, but their not caring to admit
it
has become evident only recently’.

The Governor informs Nandini that she would see Ranjan the same day.
with a garland of Kunda ﬂowers.
>2:

>l<

Nandini presents him

*

Nandini knocks at the door and appeals to the King to let her enter his room,
where he is living
without any companion, like the Mid-day Sun.

