Nandini cries out that this shows a lack of humanity. but she forgets as the Professor says, ‘the tiger
does not feed on tiger, it is only men who fatten themselves on their fellowmen".

The Wrestler totters in.

He is robbed of his strength.

away ‘not only strength but hope'.

These demons know the magic art of sucking

As Governor appears followed by the Gossain, the Wrestler Gajju,

who just a few minutes ago expressed his-desire to wring the Governor's neck, to tear his lying tongue,
becomes so abjectly humble that Gossainji hopes that he will be able to make him join the choir of the
Holy name.

Obeying the Governor‘s command, Gajju goes out.

Nandini is worried over Bishu‘s long absence. Kishore informs Nandini that Bishu is under arrest
and they will ‘take him along by this path‘.

Nandini is moved by the sight of Bishu in hand-cuffs.

had whipped him with the whips they use for their dogs.

They

Bishu says that these chains and the marks on

his body will ‘bear witness to the truth of my freedom‘.

Kishore offers himself to be arrested in exchange of Bishu.

dear boy. and dangerous work too.

Ranjan has come.

But Bishu says, ‘there is work for you.

You must ﬁnd him out”.

The Doctor describes the King. who is dissatisﬁed within himself—‘that is not a disease of the
body. but of the mind‘.

Phagulal the digger. his wife Chandra, Gokul come and accuse Nandini for the arrest of Bishu.
run to break open the Prison gate.

They

Nandini is eager to meet Ranjan and asks the band of men. she meets on the way but they are
afraid to tell her about his whereabouts.

Nandini violently shakes the closed door and requests the King to open the door.

The voice from inside says~“You want Ranjan, I know.

I have asked the Governor to fetch him

at once, but do not remain standing at the door, when I come out for the Flag Worship, for there you will
run great risk”. The door opens. But what he exposes with the opening of the door? ......... to Nandini-

Ranjan lying on the ﬂoor,—to himself—he exposes his real selﬁﬁwho realises that his own machine refuses
his control.

