The Group
institution of the Nagaon
Established in । 95 3 , Hatbar Kendriya Natya Sama], is a leading cultural
arts amongst different
folk
district in of Assam. The group propagates .S'mI/em'i and other
arts like the (mkm
communities of the region and has taken up schemes for the publicity of
blmomr drama form , bib", satrlj'a-dmzce etc. both in and outside the State.

The artists of the Hatbar Kendriya Natya Sama] have performed cultural shows such as the

(mkm

Mela at
b/Jamm at different places like the International Trade Fair, New Delhi and the Rarnayan
and has stalwarts of
Ayodhya,Uttar Pradesh. The group also provides training of these forms

the forms like Guru Sri Ghana Kanta Borbayan and Guru Sri Hiro Mahanta as instructors.

The Director
Hiro Prasad Mahanta comes from a family that has been connected to
theatre for several generations. He became a member of the Assam Satra

Mahasabha and Hatbor Kendriya Natya Sama]. He is also the Founder of
the Satriya Cultural Troup 0f Kaliabor, a group that specializes in
organizing theatre and (lllkfl'ﬂ bbarma workshops based on the traditional

_ Assamese folk form . Some of the plays directed by him are Kara" l’arm,
,. है 5'८८/32८22/८/1८८ Ram Viqu and Rulemim' Hamn. His play .S‘i/aHarmI Bali Bad/J

M has been performed 5 times as a part of the Republic Day Parade.

Director's note
I was born and brought up in a Satra (religious set-up established by Sri Sankar Deva of

Sankar Deva. which is still popular throughout the state and is enacted regularly with
reverence and gaiety. It is an integral part ofAssam's cultural tradition and is one of the

mainstays of its religious, sociO-cultural identity. Keeping this in mind , whenever । have
performed Sim Ilamn Bali Bat/l) blmmla, I have always tried to keep its traditional
format intact. । strive to portray the dance and dialogue part in its original form and
use authentic traditional musical instruments like the khol (mridanga), cymbal, gong
etc. in the performance.
Sim llamn Bali Bad/J depicts the triumph of good over evil and peace over violence.
This message is very relevant in today‘s context. । expect constructive criticism from
the connoisseur and offer apologies for the faults and shortcomings on my part.

38

- ”N ५

Assam in the I 5th century) where religion and culture were practiced side by side. It is
here that I learned about 'Ailkl'a Blmona', a novel format of play devised by Srimanta

