llurks in the background.
The action starts with Matla, the only able man of the
“tha’ family, returning home after a futile day’s search for
food. He, however, has caught a vicious snake during his day’s
.toils and has concealed it in an earthen pitcher. With a wry
humour, embittered by frustration, he tells his daughter

that

the pot contains fresh honey straight from a beehive. The
daughter Badami, pregnant, driven out of her marital shelter

and dependent on her father, believes ' him. At this juncture,
Jata, Matla’s old uncle, rushes in to tell his nephew of a sensational happening in the afternoon. Aghore Ghose, the‘Jotedar’

-and the money-lender of the village who is no less than a local
king, has been bitten by a very poisonous snake and is on the
verge of death. Jata and another villager, Phukna, representing
«the village poor, recall the tyrannies of Aghore Ghose urging
_Matla not to cure the dying jotedar, as they very naturally
expect that Matla, the ﬁnest ‘tha’ in the region, will be com' missioned for the job. Badami strikes a different note and
considers it inhuman and immoral to let a man die with the
"‘tha’ sitting idle. She requests Matla to rush to the spot and
to do all that lies in his powers to cure the man. Matla is bewildered by the contrasting advice. First Shankar, Aghore’s
:son, then Daksha, Aghore’s mistress, try to lure Badami with
«dreams of a secure future. Jata tries to resist such advances, but

‘Badami asks them to bring the dying man to their place. Matla’s
crisis thus deepens when the dying ﬁgure of Aghore Ghose
is brought into his courtyard. The curtain

comes down over

.“the ﬁrst act with Matla, Jata and Badami sitting down to their
:meal while Daksha laments.
As the second act starts we ﬁnd the thas ﬁnishing their
:rneal. Jata, the cunning old man, prepares himself and his
:undecided nephew for a bout of acting They pretend for ३ a
”while that they are going to cure the jotedar. But soon
Aghore’s son and mistress start doubting and the game be.cornes too much for Matla who gives it up in desperation. The
willage sentiment hardens against the vacillating

Matla, while

his daughter provokes her father by telling him that she doubts

