14 January
BABA JITTO
( Dog ri )
Produced by: Natrang
Written by: Ram Nath Shastri
Directed by: Balwant Thakur

Synopsis
The play Baba Jitto is based on a 15th—century folk tale. A
poor peasant, J itto. flees his village to escape harassment and
exploitation by his relatives. Along with his nine-year-old

daughter, he takes refuge in the house of a friend in
Shamachak. a nearby vi l lage . Baba J itto succeeds in getting a
piece of land from a local landlord through the efforts of his
friend. The landlord allows hfrn to cultivate the land on the
condition of getting one—third of the total produce.
With hard work, Jitto makes the barren land bloom. On
seeing the rich crop. the landlord becomes greedy and plans
to take home the whole of the produce. His musclemen come
to plunder the crop. But the hapless Jitto kills himself with a

dagger. sitting on his stacks of wheat. The musclemen carry
away the crop drenched in blood. The young daughter of J itto
irnrnolates herself by jumping on her father's pyre.
Director’s Note

The production uses the narrative techniques of Karkan -— a
traditional mode of narration of the Baba Jitto legend in the hilly
areas of Jammu region. Other folk forms that are used in this
play are Jater, Jarian. Geetru, and elements of Hern, Kud and

Sau ian
Cast & Credits

Baba Jitto: Narinder Sachar: Bua Gauri: Neelam Bharti;

.Jojaan: Narnrata Suri: Jogi 1 : Gullu Ram; Jogi 2: Bal Krishan;
Jojaan‘s sons: Shashi Salathia. Sanjay Agrawal, Sandeep
Vaid, Sanjeev Kumar Bakshi: Maheep Gupta, Ajay Mahajan,
Joginder Kurnar Sanmotra: Villagers: Ashutosh Wall, Harish
Khanna. Sat Salarvi. Subodh Jamwal. Sunit l<ulshreshthaz
Sarpanch: Jugal Kaul: Raja: Davinder Nanda; Mehta Bir
Singh: Shiv Ram: Malli: Sudhanshu Sharma: Ghagi: Jugal
Kaul: Esso: Suresh Sharma: Rullo: Sanjeev Luthra: Jauni:
Meenakshi Gupta: Buddha: Suresh Sawhney.
Script: Prof. Ram Nath Shastri: lights: Ravi Shanker; makeup: Suresh Sawhney: sets: Vinod Gandotra; Sunit
Kulshreshtha: costumes: Narnrata Suri: Props: Maheep

Gupta: manager: Prabodh Jamwal.
Balwant Thakur (b. 1960)
Balwant Thakur has directed several major productions in
recent years including Ek ThaGadha. AdheAdh u re.

Cha u rana. Ka un Nacheye Nach and Poste r. l n his
productions he has experimented by making use of folk forms
and styles of presentation

