15 January

CHANDA BEDNI
( Bangel i )
Produced by: Bashmi Bathi. Bhopal
Written and Directed by: Alakhnandan
Synopsis
Chanda Bean is a dancer whose art and beauty are
legendary. A young Brahman falls in love with her and. unlike
other men . wants to marry her and settle down. Chanda
understands his sincere emotion but is also aware of possible
social problems and prejudices. She tests him by demanding
that he change his style of livrng as a condition for marriage.
The Brahmin agrees and even goes beyond her expectations.

The King. who is in love with Chanda himself. becomes
jealous of the poor Brahm in youth and promises Chanda great
riches if she could perform an almost impossible feat: that of
dancing all the way to the king ‘5 palace on a rope tied between

the palace and the fort. The Bedni accepts the challenge and
casts a magic spell whereby all implements that could cut the
rope are rendered useless except those ot a shoemaker. The
queen. who is jealous of Chanda, uses the shoemaker to cut
the rope. thereby killing Chanda.
Director’s Note

The production emerged from experiments with the script at
rehearsals. Several folk strains (Maach. Rai, Swang, etc.) can
be found in it. but no single form dominates. The two other
noteworthy features are the use of Bundeli. and the lyrics.
Ca st and C red its

Chanda: Ranjana Bhatt: Sadhu: Rakesh Kabir; Chola
Mandali: Ashok Sharma. Rajesh Litoriya, Punit Verma, Ashok
Pathak; Anewala: Pravin Gautam: Munni: Magha Pal;
Mridangiya: Anup Joshi; Dhindorchi: Kali ShankarAwasthi;
Raja: lrtan Saurabha: Police: Vijay Gupta; Parasher Samaj;
Anil Agarwal. Arvind Bilgaiyan: Raj Darbari: Saffan, Sabir,
Narendra Rajput. Alim; Sipahi: Satya Dev Sharma; SwangWaia: Somelal Ahirwar: Dholakwala: Surendra Wankhede;
Chorus: Savitri Raikwar, Tulsi Yadav. Umed, Dhani Ram.
Music: Om Prakash Chourasia: special music effects; B.V.

Karanth; mujra singer: Ranjana Bhatt: music assistance:
Urnakant Gundecha. Rajiv Singh (harmonium), Sanjay Mishra
(Tabla), Surendra Wankhede. Anup Joshi (Dholak); lights:
lrfan Saurabh; art assistance: Devilal Patidar: dance effects:
Ramlal, Ramsahey Pandey, Sadhuram; assistance: Vijay
Shrivastava. Suchitra Dak‘wala, Abha Mishra.
Alakhnandan (b. 1948)
Alakhnandan has been active on the stage from '73. He has
directed Waiting fo rGodot and Bak r/ in Chattisgarhi dialect.

i
nd
Hi
in
.
etc
,
me
Ga
d
En
,
ge
ud
J
re,
u
h
Ad
he
Ad
Mariam rvan,
andAdheAdh u re in Bengali. Assisted Mani Kaul in the film
Sarah se UthtaAdmi. Recently directed Ban/h Ghati for

Bangmandal, Bhopal.

