17 January
N A N DAN KATH Al
(Tamill '
Produced by: Thalir Arangu. Gandhigrama. Tamil Nadu
Written by: Indira Parthasarathy
Directed by: R. Raju

Synopsis
This is the story of a Sawite saint of Tamil reinterpreted by
Indira Parthasarathy. Nandan is repelled by the squalid life of
lower castes and finds beauty in the mode of upper —caste life.

His attitude is strengthened when he meets Abhirami,
a temple dancer. Nandan‘s aspiration for a refined culture
makes him educate his people to follow the higher way of life.
This makes the Brahmins uneasy and insecure. To preserve
their domination they glorify Nandan and weave a web of
miracles round him so as to make him a saint. This cuts him off
from his own people and puts him beyond their reach. The
strategy of the upper castes. as interpreted here, is to elevate a
person who reforms the suppressed to a state of eminence so
as to create a chasm between the reformer and his followers.
Director’s Note

The director wishes to focus on the cultural conflict between
the two ways of life presented here. and their aesthetic
expressions. He believes unnecessary stylisation imposed on
the script will only hinder communication of its message.
though he senses that a non—realistic treatment is needed for
the play. Music and dance have thus been inter—woven into the
play. Where traditional forms are hand led है the aim is to show
how these are a part of our daily lives.
Cast & Credits
Nandan: Athmanathan; Abhirami: Rajasyamala; Mudaliar:

Utharapathy; Udaiyar: Kaliyaperumal; Priests: Ramaswamy,
Srinivasan, Rajarathinam, Punniyamoorthy, Rajamanickam:
_
Gurukkal: Rajagopal. ,
Group l: Rangaraj, Parimala Sundram. Kaliaperumal,
Vinayagam; Group ll: Govindaraj, Kaliraj. Ganesan,
Sidharthan: Group Ill: Jayalakshmi, Vellaiarnrnal, Rathnam;
Old men: Ravi. Murugesan; Musical Group: Lakshmi
Rajarathinam, Mannargudi Sakthivel, Prabanjam
Balachandran, Masilamani, Aseervadam, Arokiam.
Set: Srinivasan; costumes: Gandhi; make—up:

Kaliaperumal; lighting: Gopinath, Rajamanickam; troupe
manager: Veluchamy; stage manager: Utharapathy; music
composed by: Dept. of Music, Tamil University, Thanjavur;

choreography: Herarnbanathan.

R. Raju (b. 1952)
R. Raju is a graduate of the National School of Drama, New
Delhi, and has been active in theatre for a decade. He has
directed many plays and also conducted several workshops.
He was a teacher for five years at the School of Drama, Calicut
U n ivers ity .

