18 January
NATAK JARl HAI
(Hindi)
Produced by: Yugmanch
Written by: Rajeeva Kumar
Directed by: Zahoor Alam

Synopsis
The play is an amalgam of extracts from Bharatendu
Harishchandra's three plays … Bharat Durdasha, Ved i ki
H/msa H/msa Na Bhavati and Andher Nagri— a trilogy
expressive of the poet’s anguish at the general decline in
moral and social values in the country. Though written over a
century ago . the plays have contemporary relevance and
bring into historical perspective a period of degeneration and
decay . However, nemesis is the fate of the unscruplous and
corrupt.

Director’s Note

Bharatendu's plays are meaningful even today as they are
inbued with an abiding sympathy for the downtroddeer The
production draws upon the techniques of the Holi Theatre form
of Kumaon. Elements of Jagar. Jhoda and Neoli — theatrical
musical forms of Himachal Pradesh — have also been
incorporated .
Cast & Credits

Mahant: Kanta Prasad Shah; Gurdhandas; Am Admi: D.K.

Sharma; Kababwala: Sohan Singh Rawat: Kunjaran, Nirhajjata: Prakash Ch . Joshi/Prakash Pant; Ghasi Ram:
Khushal Singh Rawat: Neta. Darbari: Rajesh Tiwari; Pathan:
Jai Kirti: Chooranwala, Darbari: Anil Kumar; Machliwali,
Madira: Prarnod Shah: Jatwala/Naukar: Yogesh Pant:
Fariyadi: Ghamprakash: Baniya: Manzoor Hussain; Halwai,
Andhakar: Abdul Hamid: Bharat. Bharat Durdev—Raja: Zahoor
Alam: Satyanash Foujdar-Mantari: Rajesh Arya; Dharma,
Purohit: Kamlakant Pande Phoot. Sipahi: Suresh Pant; Sipahi:
Kaushal Shah गु Darbari: Akhlaw Ahmad: Vach‘ak: Manzoor
Hussain; Kotwal: Diwan Kanwal.
Production Controler: SC. Awasthi, K.P. Shah; stage
setting: Sudarshan Jugal, Niranjan Shah; music director:'Vijay
Krishna; music: Raja Pant, KS. Rawat, Mohan Lal, Madan
Ram, Chandan Ram, Diwan Kanwal. Lenin Awasthi,
Jagmohan Joshi: make-up: Sunita D. Prarnod Shah, Jyoti,
Jeetendra Bis'nt: Costume: lshan Trivedi, Deep Pant, Sarita

Garg, Suwarn Rawat; light: ldris Malik, Govind, Batila, Nirmal
Pandey. Noroj Shah: properties: Tribhuwan Phattyas,
Trilochan Joshi. Mridulakrishan, Bina Shah; visual director:
Kamal Joshi. Dr. Anil Pant: asstt. director: Kamla Kant
Pa ndey .
Zahoor Alam (b. 1955)
Zahoor Alam has worked with many directors. among them
B.V. Karanth, BM. Shah and Anupam Kher. In the last few
years he has directed several plays. some of which have
drawn upon traditional theatre forms.

