Theatre festival

Blidging cultures through historic plays

j m..

: ; tories on and aron Partition will neverelude
creative pursuits of performing and visual arts. So
when the capital recently
hosted a four-dayPakistani
Theatre Festival titled ‘Humsaya’ by Lahore-based Ajoka
. Theatre, it as expected, re
ceived overwhelming re
spouse. The plays featured
stories of history’s prominent
personalities and the plot was
contemporarised to ﬁt into
today’s milieu.
Written and directed by
‘ Pakistani eminent playwrights DIVERSE Sills from Da a (top left), Bulha (top right) ad PhirAayiBasant (bottom).
Shahid Nadeem and Madeeha
been performedwidely in
Gauha, Delhiitesgathered in
huge numbers at Kamani Au— Pakistan, India, Iran, Oman,
UK and the US.
*
ditorium to witness traces of
On the second day, story of
shared history between the
Mughal emperor Shah Jahan’s
two nations.
The festival opened with
eldest son, Dara Sikoh’s story
was narrated in the playDara.
Bulha, featuringthe storyof
Punjabi Suﬁ poet Bulleh Shah, It is surprising that Dara’s liberal views and ideology lie
the beacon of hope and humanism, onSeptember 14. A
dormant and so doeshis vitrue andloyal portrayal of the sionof-India as a country
7
timesthat Bulleh Shahlived
where all religionsco-existed
in, the playwas broadly based and intermingled, and where
on the events of his life, as
all subjects weretreated
communicated through his
equally and fairly.
poetry, historical records and
While we all have read sto३
4-21 '
1‘
popular myths.
ries about Mughal rulers like
As Nadeem rightly quotes,
Akbar, Babur, Shah Jahan,
burstsand dramatic portrayal
Another historical charac“Language is never a barrier
Aurangzeb and many others
of the irony that lays in
ter that the playbrought out
for theatrical representation,” in ourhistory text books, it is a Aurangzeb, Data’s brother, as
in the forefront is of Princess
५ the play, despite being staged
sadreality that Dara is
a Muslim hero. Nadeem artic- Jahan Ara, a mystic and schol‘ in Lahori Punjabi, succeeded
almost non-existent.
ulaterattempted to bring out ar: poets Zaib-un—nissa Makhﬁ
to touch everyheart in the auWritten and directed by
the realities, using lyrical
and Sarmad Kashani, who like
dience. It was ﬁrst performed Nadeern, the playinvolved a
Urdu language, supported by
Dara ﬁnd no space in our
ब् in Lahore in 2001 and has
wide rangeof emotional outa strong script.
history books.

८.
. —. ~ ५.१द्रड्डाक्याक्याक्वन्थ
त , क्या.

.i \m12 r ३

revolved around a beautiful
"lively" city where people believed that the walls built
around the city would
protect them from intruders
all the time.
Lahore, which was held
hostage within by the military,
used to be a beautiful zz'ndadilcity, where people loved ﬂying kites during 1705(1711
(spring), and all other festivals, which were destroyed by
the ‘RokTham Committee, a
ﬁctional take on the military
regime in Pakistan.
With a very subtle and playful tone, LPBA brings to light
The third day was a treat for various hindrances that were
faced by people. It became a
proliﬁc writerSaadat Hasan
country where young boys
Manto fans with the play
would be arrested for flying
K'aun Izaiye Gustak/z.
The play highlighted his life,
kites, students were not allowed to study science,geogworks and events after he migrated to Pakistanin 1949 and raphy, literature or even indulge in their hobbies like
how the Partition affected
lives of people.
drawing and music.
However, despite all these
From Sill/Z Hashiay, to Toba
unpositions, the play highIckgSI'ngh, 'I‘hcznda Ghost and
lightedhow the high-spirited
IOwlDo, eachstory showed
Lahore will never stop spreadthe struggles of people and
ing the colours and joys
the author who was harassed
of spring.
and persecuted by the courts
“All the plays performed
and the press in Pakistan. His
had a corrunon messageof
iconic, semi—autobiographical
take in Tbba 'Ick Sing/1 reﬂect- peace. We may be different
countries, culturally,
ed the wounds of people
politically and socially,
caught in Partition.
but we will always be bound
The last play, L0 PhirBas—
by history, culture,
antAyee (LPBA), recreated
the happiness and celebration language and geography,”
that carries with the arrival of sums up Nadeern.
Garima Arora
spring every year. The story

