के

THE AUTHOR of the plays that Kala Darpan Troupe will be presenting here, Mr. H. S.

Dilgir, is one of the few persons who have dedicated their lives to the cause of Theatre.

We

are fortunate in having him with us, not only as a playwright but as a teacher and director
also. He is the only person in N.W. India who had had his schooling and training in Theatre
Arts at the Emerson College, U.S.A. and who is imparting this

dents every year free of any charge.

knowledge to dozens of stu-

Like Craig, he is also of the opinion that the amateures

can do more harm to the theatre than any antagonist could do.

Mr. Dilgir who has distinguished himself as a poet, playwright, short story-writer and
dramatist, has made a unique contribution by using performing arts as a powerful medium
of communication to bring people closer to each other. With a great pride once 8. Gurnam
Singh, a former Chief Minister of Punjab remarked publicly, “We are fortunate in having a
man like Mr. Dilgir in the State.”
Born some 47 years ago, Mr. Dilgir has been working for the promotion of art,
culture and literature for about 30 years. He is a published author of 8 books in English,

Punjabi and Urdu.

Two of his books, Scattered Thoughts, published in the U. SA. and

Morche W’ich Te Hor Ekangr‘ have won awards from Sahit Akademi Chandigarh and Language Department Punjab respectively. Besides that he has so far written more than 100 short

stories for journals.

His plays have been equally popular with the All India Radio audience, readers and spectators.

art is a mode of worship.

To him

He says that," the art that does not elevate the spirits of man is no art at all."

Soon, two of his well known plays MORCHE WICH, (Punjabi) and PAALI (Hindi) are going to be ﬁlmed by Kala
Darpan Films, Chandigarh.

- ~.

In 1969 Mr. Dilgir was awarded a SIROPA by the leading artists of the State in recognition of his services to the
art and culture of the State. Dr. M. S. Randhawa, while presiding over the function said, "Mr. Dilgir has made a great
contribution to the performing arts and literature of the State.”
To perpetuate this recognition an award of Rs. 500/- named as DiLGIR AWARD was instituted by Dr. R. K.
ianmeja Singh of the U.S.A.. to be given every year to an artist who makes a signiﬁcant contribution to the Punjabi arts
during the year.
.
Secretary, Kala Darpan.

