Our President
. .

KALA 041%th “

……

. .

s— .
१

In 1953, when people in Chandigarh were livin practically in 'huQLMr. H3 Dilgir
felt the need of introducing cultural activities in the
en dull and dreary atmosph
of the
town. He organised a musical evening which sparke all" need for more such prog rnrnes.
Since then he has been regularly feeding this 'ground with more and“ still better pro amines.

In 1965, after an absence of some four year

५

U.S.A., and realising a. need for an institution Which coul

1

‘rom the

ucatton in Th atre Arts

and Classical Dance and thereby present the culture of the State in its tr
Kala Darpan. It was with this idea that the renowned.

dance-director of Indian

rims, Guru

Gian Shankar, was brought to Chandigarh from Bombay by Mr. Dilgir. To day we have
lent his services to various academic and other institutions so that the original form of classical dance of the State could be propagated:
“This institution is doing a yecrnan’s service in the cause of preservation of our culture
and the promotion of art . ..I hope they will go all over India and make whole of India understand and appreciate the work done by them.
~—Dr. D.C. Pavate. Governor,~ Punjab.
*Kala Darpun is playing an important role in the cultural life of this beautiful city.
(मज्ञाने
- -- - «~
_
—G‘ovemor, Dharma Vim.
S. Prem Smgh P’em M LA
*1 congratulate the organisers and the members of Kala Darpan, Chandigarh for
mung a commendable step for promotion of (31388101! music.
—-Dr. RN. Chakravarry, Governor, Haryana.
\

०८८ ५हाँप्लीब्लै .

*Kala Daipan stands at the top of those institutions which propagate the culture of Punjab through cultural programmes. The prominent aspect of the institution IS that besides presenting cultural programmes, it is engaged in the
research of the cultural heritage of the Punjab.
*Naybhar'at Times, May 1, 1970.
*All the Punjabis are proud of the work being done by Kale Darpan and its talented artists to revive and propagate

the centuries old culture of Punjab. In recognition
their work we have the pleasure to present two gold medals to their
artist, K. Preet Pratima Kaur.
क्या5". Me what: mg 3 - ' t. '1 १ en. Secretary, International Punjabi Society, New Delhi.
*Second time when I was hit rcssed by th poxtaﬁ 'ऊं bro
1 art was -' v hen Mr. Dilgir presented .a programme
at Patiala.
p
र I
Ssizrms. I irpal Singb Narang, V.C’., Punjabi University.

