\
A CONFLUENCE OF THREE INDIAN CLASSI—
CAL DANCE STYLES UNFOLDED A JOURNEY
TO PROVIDENCE. A REVIEW BY MANJARI
SINHA ' ३
३l "
r 1he Trikala Gurukulam, in association
with the India International Centre(110),
presented Anantham Aanandam ~ A
Journey Back To Godhead at the 110 Auditorium this past week. The dance evening was
a conﬂuence of three Indian classical dance
styles with Deepti Omchery Bhalla performing Mohiniyattam, Swapnokalpa Dasgupta performing Odissi and Kalashri Lata
Surendra performing Bharatanatyam.
The concept note described the theme as:
“In the evolution of the world from matter
to mind, everything has turned chaotic.
From pollution to purity is a journey back
to Godhead, to Providence ~ the true source.”
Anantham Aanandam through the three
dance styles was gathering the awareness of
“one truth in alland all inone tru ”; anawareness of the inner harmony permeating
throughall creations that accord bliss or Aanandam. Unfolding with the Swaraghat of Samagaayana, visually highlighting the three levels of graded effective potency of sound, the
dancers slowly gather Sapta Swaras, the seven
notes and proceed to unfold its potency
through their respectivedance styles, endorsing thaton doing things with the soul, a river

of joy ﬂows from each one
of us to the other:
The evening opened
with all three dancers
coming together, making
the visual feel of the primordial sound “Om ” and
the seven notes that
evolved from the original
three notes of the Samagayan in the Vedic Age.
The dance became music
made visualbecause music
is more intimately connected with our inner hidden soulthan any other art.
This inner awareness or
self-realisation was practised through
‘W’aadopasana which in this case took us
to the bliss or Anantham Aanandam.
Narayana is the cause of all creations.
Hence the next piece was awakening to the
effulgence of Lord Krishna as apre-requisite
towards eternal bliss, which was portrayed
through “Dandakam” in Mohiniyattam
by Deepti depicting the form of Krishna
as the epitome of beauty and his benediction sought to shower the world with AnanthamAanandam. The graceful movements
of Mohiniyattam by Deepti did bring out
the joy in the hearts of the audience too.
The joyfuldance of allcreations was depicted in Odissi style by Swapnokalpa next in
her ﬂawless Pallavi opening petal by petal

like a blooming ﬂower: ’
hr
Lata Surendran in Bharatanatyam style to
depict the lovelorn Radha in order to bask
in the bliss accorded by Lord Krishna. The
evening reached its climax with
Geetopadesha, when the three dancers again
come together in a trio with Swapna pulling
the chariot, Deepti as Lord Krishna the
Sarathi orcharioter and Lata asArjuna seek-

ing the Upadesh of Geeta from Lord Krishna, proving the fact “Ekam Sat Viprah
bahudha vadanti” , or there is only one truth
in all. It was a well-conceived evening with
good dancers but the lengthy commentary
did the “Ras-Bhang” and became a hindrance in our journey to Anantham

Aanandam.
.1

