च-उ-उ-य-त्रिशिरा/रीठा' of Act One
'Four y rs for an amateur Hindi theatre group is a long time in this

"""""""""65an age of mediocrity. An age when Art has become a mere
show 'ece. Art which does not exhibit concern for society, which
Wdeesn t draw sustenance from society. When the sole motivation
for doi g theatre, is that "original" hindi scripts are being per-

"शाका-स्था Even plays which have the potential for artistic exploration
are performed without passion or focus, and the deﬁciencies are
sought to be glossed over by using, as props, lengthy and
scholarly written treatises in glossy brochures.
The hindrances for creative expression are seemingly endless.
Lack of ﬁnances, rehearsal space and high handed ness of auditorium managements. Last, but not the least, the self appointed
guardians of theatre, who appear to ﬁnd expression for their

“originality” through their love for folk and traditional forms. An
originality which is as shallow as their own understanding and
knowledge of such forms.
Yet, four years are not really long,

when we think of all the

outstanding dramatists whose works we have not yet attempted
and the various genres we have not explore-d . So, perhaps our best
production is still to come. For us theatre is a continuous process,
an unending movement. We are gradually developing our basic

understanding to its logical culmination, through the process of
trial and error. Our emphasis is also on acting as a creative
expression, so that the actor might use the play in expressing our

common beliefs and enhance the power of idea by his creativity.
Act One, is a dynamic group of people from various professional
backgrounds - painters, musicians, actors. film-makers, writers,
students etc. Act-One provides a stage where such. people can find
expression for their creative urges. In the process they have, down
the years, contributed to the growth of the Act One - those who are
no more with the group as well as those who continue to sustain
the group.
In this passive age when people are not insp'red by anything , when
people do not have a larger vision of excellence . when they do not
understand their own aspirations, their om nature - this motley
group of actors and actresses are anxious to seize the essence of

contradictions in our society. These experiments and explorations
are directed towards the most complicate: and interesting things
and in finding the real form for contemporary modern theatre. In
finding the best means of inspiring a passive generation, that they
may be galvanised into affirming just and egalitarian values.

