i1

Synopsis
The six classical operas drawn from the traditional repertoire represent the characteristtics of the extremely rich ahd
colourful Peking Opera rarely seen in India.

Exploring the Valley

…

३

' '\

Xixia invades Song while the King of Ben is in power. Yang Zongbao is killed by an arrow in the back. as he tries to find the
plankroadIn the Hulu Valley. Meng Huaiyuan and Jiao Yantingtmy back totthe capitalt0 report the death of Yang while
Yang'3 familyIs busy hosting a banquet for Yang's fiftieth birthday. Infanla Cai (Yang's rnolher) and Mu Guiying (Yang'3
wife) shocked by the news. try every means to keept1116 news away from She. Yang's grandmother whoIs hundred years
old. But She finds out nonetheless. and advises Jiao and Meng to report Yang's death to the King of Ben. Minister Wang
Hui proposes to negotiate with Xixia. while Minister Kou Zhun insists on going to battle with Xixia. The latter persuades the
King to visit Yang's family to convey his condolences. She and Mu offer to go to the front. and are joined by the other
women relatives. Infanla Cal asks Yang's son. Yang Wenguang and Mu Guiying to go into the Hulu Valley. and find the
plank road. With the help of Yang's groom and horse. they succeed in defeating the invading enemy. and return in triumph,

A Woman Fighting throughout the Four City Gates (Martia/ Dan Opera)
At the beginning of the Song Dynasty on a punitive expedition to Nantang. Zhao Kuangyin is blocked by Zhu Hui in
Shouzhou with no food from inside and no aid from outside. Learning that Gao Huaide has been seized by Yu Hong Gao
Junbao hurries to help Zhao and to save his father. When he returns in triumph. he feels sick. Then Liu J ind ing , his wife.
comes a long way to the front to defeat Nantang by fighting throughout the four city gates.
The Village oiHu (Martial Dan Opera)
In the Song Dynasty. Song Jiang leads his troops on an attack on the Village of Zhu. The Village of Hu, Zhu's neighbour.
comes to help. Woman General Hu Sanniang defeats Song's army and seizes Wang Ying alive. Lin Chong hurries to help

and defeats Hu Sanniang. Seized by Lin, Hu Sanniang pledges allegiance.
0

Autumn River
in the Song Dynasty. learning that Pan Bizheng is leaving the nunnery. Chen M iaochang hurries to the bank of the Autumn
River and wants to cross it. The old boatman plays a joke with her by pretending to overcharge her. In order to save time.
Chen agrees to pay him high. III fact, the old boatman knows her eagerness and is ready to help. Once Chen gets on the
boat. the old boatman paddles fast so that she can meet Pan.

Picking up a Jade Bracelet (Huadan Opera)
In the Ming Dynasty, a young man Fu Peng passes by a gate where a young girl Sun Yujiao is doing her needlework. The
two young people fall in love with each other. Fu leaves a jade bracelet on purpose. and Sun picks it up, which is seen by a
neighbour, old woman Liu. Liu would like to be their matchmaker.
Heaverily Maid Sirewing Flo wers
Sakyamuni asks Wen Shu to lead Bodhisattva’s disciples to see the Buddhist Wei Mo. ill in Pi Yeli. Then he asks a heavenly
maid to strew flowers for him to check her skill. The heavenly maid leaves the Kingdom of Zhongxiang and travels a long
way to there. Four Buddhist novices are busy discussing their doctrine when Wen Shu joins them, then the heavenly maid
arnves.
San Cha Kou(acting in short-jacketed suits fighting at close range with short weapons)
in the Song Dynasty. Jiao Zen is sent to Shamen Island to kill Jin Wu. son-in-law of Wang Qinruo; Yang Yanzhao asks Ren
Huitang to protect him secretly. After arriving at San Cha Kou. J iao lives in the hotel run by Liu Lihua. Ren Huitang also lives
in the same hotel and looks for Jiao Zan, which makes Liu Llhua think that Ben is to kill Jiao. Then Liu and Ben tight in
darkness and they don't recognize each other until daybreak.

The Group
The Liaoning Beijing Opera Troupe was set up in 1959. with graduates from the former Liaoning Drama School, renamed
in 2002 as the College of Drama of Shenyang Normal University which offers eleven specializations including Beijing . ‘Opera. Pingju performance. Jing and Ping Opera accompaniment. Film and TV Awarded at several national competitions
at different.levels the troupe has performedIn 1 6 countries.

/

५५

कि

पृ-कुँदु' II n I II II II I s I: II II o I II I II II II III II

