ANT०N PAVL०V I CH CHEKH०V
Playwright, Prose Writer, Story Writer, Letter Writer & Medical Practitioner.
Active 1860-1904 in Russia, Continental Europe.
Had a|ways claimed that medicine was his wife and literature his mistress. His life is mapped out by a Catalogue of good works
that is enough to make anyone blush.

As early as 1884, Chekhov had observed the first symptoms of the tuberculosis that would lead to his early death.

MEM० I RS
.... . . Himself attractively simple, he loved all that was simple, genuine, sincere, and he had his own particular way of making others simpler.
.... ..All his life Anton Chekhov lived on his inner wealth, he was always himself, possessed inner freedom, and never took account of what some

expected from Anton Chekhov, and others, more vulgarly, demanded from him.

Alexei M. Peshkov (Maxim Gorky)
..... ..It was Chekhov who, in his works, vindicated the existence of the simple, superficially insignificant man, with his sorrows and joys, his
dissatisfaction and his dreams of the future, of another, 'unbelievably wonderful' Life.
OLGA L. KNIPPER
..... ..In the spring of 1897 the popular 'Moscow Arts Theatre' was born . After the failure in st. Petersburg, 'The Seagull‘ had become for Chekhov an ailing
so he refused to consent to the staging of it. But somehow, because of 'Vladimir Nernirovich Danchenko’, in August 1898, it was included in our
repertoire.

At the first, I didn't understand the play. it was only while I was working on it that I began, without realizing it, to penetrate the meaning and came to love it.
Such is the nature of Chekhov's plays.

On the the eve of the first performance, at the end of an unsuccessful dress rehearsal, Chekhov's sister, Maria P. Chekhova arrived at the theatre. She
was upset by bad news about Chekhov's ailing condition and horrified by the thought of 'The Seaguall' failing a second time. But, we had no choice but to
stag e it.

Next day, at eight 0' Clock, the curtain rose. How the first act passed off I don't know. I recall the horror I felt. .
It seemed we had failed, the curtain dropped amidst total silence ....
Deathly silence ........ ..
Silence .................. ..

Someone began to cry. At that very moment the audience broke into shouts and applause.

nt.
teme
exci
and
joy
with
y
wildl
ed
danc
f,
mysel
ding
inclu
,
Many
.
yone
ever
ng
kissi
ced,
rejoi
rs
orme
perf
the
e
stag
On
ess.
succ
t
The play was a grea

From that evening on, The Arts Theatre and Anton Pavlovich became close as Kith and Kin.

_
K. S. Stanislavsky.

..... .. I do love Anton, but quite unable to understand why has he started writing plays?

Lev Tolstoy

