NOVEL l धा
LYDI A A. AV I LOV A
Lydia was born in Moscow in 1864.

She was only twenty five , already married & mother of nine months old boy when she first met Chekhov.
In the account of her relations with Chekhov, published several years after her death in 1 942 at the age of 78, under the title of "CHEKHOV l N MY LIFE",
She describes only eight meetings with Chekhov between 1889& 1899, but it is clear from the text that they must have met much more often.
Lydia's reminiscences contain a great deal of highly intersting literary material, but what is perticularly important is the biographical data they supply
about "TH E SEAGULL", Chekhov's most imaginative play, which has exercised the ingenuity of many critics whose guesses about the origin of many
characters in the play seem now to have been wide of the mark.

-

PLAY WRIGHT:

AMBRISH K. SAXENAArnbrish K. Saxena born in the year 1973 in Balrarnpur (U . P. ). Primary Education & first phase of theatre in Gonda. Graduated in
arts. Also trained in theatre & Acting from Shri Ram Centre, New Delhi (1998).
Worked with 'Repertory-Hirnanchal Sanskritik Shodh Sansthan, Mandi' as an actor, got two years scholorship from Cultural
Ministry in theatre. Worked with several institutions and wrote & directed 8-10 short pays & stories. He has acted in more than 35
plays, with eminent personalties of theatre, while performing in their projects such as Late B.M. Shah, Late J.N. Kaushal, Kirti
Jin, Auradha Kapur, Suresh Sharma, Surendra Shara, Sanjay Upadhyay, Wagish Kumar Singh, Chittranjan Tripathi & Mushtaq
Ka k .
Currently working with "Shri Ram Centre Repertory" as an Actor & Theatrist.

I FR A MUS H T AQ'
lfra Mushaq started her career as a child artiste with Doordarshan Kendra, Jammu. She has participated in various national theatre festivals and is
associated with "Duggar Manch" and " Arnatu re Theatre Group". She has keen interest in writing and has already written few scripts and screen plays,

though she started it as an actress as well as an efficient backstage artiste.
lfra, being a rnultifaced talent, is currently engaged with creative theatre and quality media.

MUSIC D I REC TOR:

RAJESH SI NGHRAJESH SlNGH born in the year 1979 in West Champaran- Bihar. Graduation & training in vocal music from Gandhrav
Mahavidyalya, Delhi. Also trained in 'Acting & Theatre' from Shri Ram Centre, New Delhi (1998-2000). He has done more
than 35 productions with eminent directors. Worked with ‘Sahitya Kala Parishad Repertory' & 'Shri Ram Centre Repertory'
as an actor & theatrist and also showed his skills in direction trough two stories - 'Raas' and 'Maut' for S . K. P. Rep.
Rajesh is doing Music Direction for several years and has shown his talent in ‘lha-Mriga' for SRC Acting Course and in
’Vasansi Jirnani' for Src Repertory.
Currently studying theatre as a student with N .S. D.

