» ALG0ZA
Algoza is BM Shah's first play which was presented to r
the ﬁrst time by Rangrnanclr under his direction in
I964. He told an interviewer about the circumstances

that inspired him to write this play in these words.
"... .Once I was coming back to Na inital . People warned
rue against the 15 mile stretch through the forest in
which the-re were man-eaters, but I had a hockey match
in the morning for my college. The sun was setting

when something more disquieting happened. The
notes of a two-reeded ﬂute, the Algoza, struck up in the

distance and seemed to be pursuing me, so haunting
were they. I literally ran to the nearest village, Ga ru.

from where I could catch a bus”.
"In the night bus to Ranikhet, the wail of the Algom
was still echoing in my head. My mind went back to the
Kumaon villages of my childhood. The thought of
writing a play, if only one—eater, possessed me. There
were two villages divided by a river. There was enmity
between the two... I started weaving a plot about them.
A play about the forthcoming generation like the twin
ﬂute, its distinct timbers, producing a third soun ..."

१ He had undertaken this rnernorab1ejourney in 1 956. He
wrote this play after a lapse of six years when he was a
student ofthe National School ofDrama .
Set in Kumaon, there are four main charactersBhadon, Basant, Ashadh and his mother. A, child

widow, Bhadon is superb carpet weaver who can also
cure snake-bite cases. As she blossomed into a real
beauty, her libertine father-in-law tries to seduce her.
- The helpless woman plunges into a river with a view to
end her life. But she is rescued by Ashadh, a young man
of the enemy village, and given shelter, despite the
opposition ofhis mother. A deviant, Ashadhlives away

from his village in a dense forest with Bhadon to
protect her from the hostility ofvillagers. IfBhadon is a
real beauty and a fine human being, Ashadh is ﬂuteAlgoza player of great power and beauty. They love
each other from the bottom ofther hearts.

