DIRECTOR'S NOTE
Let us recount the problems.
PROBLEM 1.

reader through a very special kind of
journey, for he is working within a
story/novel format. It is therefore

Given a chance. I would like the rehearsals to further evolve for at least
six months (if not forever). I would
like it to be so strong, so complex, so
dense that it may try its implied and
rarified meanings, illuminate the
WHOLE darkness. And this through
the streaks of light produced from
within the actors. As you can see we
are doomed at the outset. No such
. thing is possible. Not only rehearsal
time is strictly rationed but the spectacle itself is to be restricted in time
and space to confirm to the demands
of handful of Delhiites and to the utterly boring conventions the art of
theatre is subjected to, specially in
our cities.
PROBLEM 2.
To try and realize anything, even
loosely based on Kafka, on stage is to

possible for him to make the reader
traverse through an infinite number
of spaces and give any kind of temporal treatment to the story he
wishes to tell. Clearly this freedom is
somewhat curtailed in theatre. The
medium while allowing the magical
grace generated by the presence of
the actor, demands constant and con-

tinuous unfolding of the theatrical
image, within a defined space. Stage
solutions for such problems are far
from easy, particularly when one is
basing one’s play on a novel like The
Trial when the central character is
omnipresent. Kafka's greatness consisted in putting forth the feeling
directly and letting nothing interfere
with the recording of the experienced truth. In the theatre, this is
difficult, for the technique tends to
show itself.

make maimed, half-formed human

freaks to move around in endless
space, producing sounds which are
now incoherent noises and now wellarticulated speeches containing neat
cogent arguments that reﬂect utmost
precision, rigour and logicality of
mind. To actualize sudden shifts
from perfectly rational to wholly irrectional, and the long chunks,
where shadow like characters move
slowly and silently in twilight zone
neither concrete or abstract, is a com-

plex problem. Theatre practitioners,
exposed only to the dramatic tradition are unlikely to catch the style
necessary for such an endeavour,
easily. One has therefore no option
but to invent a theatare where such a
thing is possible.
PROBLEM 3.
And this is obvious, Kafka takes his

Having recounted the general
problems let us now turn to the actors.
Nothing should be said about their
problems except that they have my
utmost sympathy. Having ventured,
perhaps a triﬂe innocently, into this
nightmare with me, they have little
to bank upon. Some of them are
quite experienced but that may become more of a handicap than advantage in their case. At the time of
going to the press with this piece, the
some odd rehearsals we have already had, merely constitute an
elementary approach for the text. We
are reviewing what works and what
does not. The more active ones are
groping, the others, as usual, are

waiting for me to mount pressure on
them. They all together have the task

