EXCERPTS FROM THE DIARIES OF FRANZ KAFKA 1910-23

1910. ”All those things, that is to say,
those things which occur to me,
occur to me not from the root up but
rather only from somewhere about
their middle. Let someone then attempt to seize them, let someone attempt to seize a blade of grass and
hold fast to it when it begins to grow
only from the middle.”
1912, 2 January ... as a result I let the
awful clothes affect even my posture,
walked around with my back
bowed, my shoulders drooping, my
hands and arms at awkward angles,
was afraid of mirrors because they
showed in me an ugliness which in
my opinion was inevitable ...
1912, 31 January. Wrote nothing.
Weltsch brings me books about
Goethe that provoke in me a distracted excitement that can be put to
no use ...
1912, 5 March. "These revolting doc-

tionate, I often had forebodings and
fears, founded on triﬂing occurences,

that F. did not love me very much,
not with all the force of the love she
was capable of. F. has now realized
this too, though not without my assistance. I am almost afraid that after
my last two visits F. even feels a certain disgust for me...
1914, 27 May. Mother and sister in

Berlin. I shall be alone with my
father in the evening. I think he is
afraid to come up. Should I play
cards (Karten) with him? (I find theletter K offensive, almost disgusting,
and yet I use it; it must be very characteristic of me.) How Father acted
when I touched F.
1914, 6 June. Back from Berlin. Was

tied hand and foot like a criminal.
Had they sat me down in a corner
bound in real chains, placed
policemen in front of me, and let me
look on simply like that, it could not

tors! Businesslike, determined and so

have been worse. And that was my

ignorant of healing that, if this
businesslike determinations were to
leave them, they would stand at sickbeds like schoolboys. I wished I had
the strength to found a nature- cure
society ...”

engagement...

Beautiful morning, warmth in my

1914, 6 August. What will be my fate
as a writer is very simple. My talent
for portraying my dreamlike inner
life has thrust all other matters into
the background...
1914, 14 December. My work goes

blood.

forward at a miserable crawl...

1913, 20 December. No letter.

1914, 23 December. Read a few

1913, 19 December. Letter from F.

pages of Herzen’s ’Fogs of London’.
1914, 9 March. I couldn’t marry then;

Had no idea what it was all about,

everything in me revolted against it,
much as I always loved F...
In the course of a long correspondence I had alarmed F. By my
peculiarities, and these now seemed
to make her uneasy. Now when
everything must be cleared up, I can

confess that even at the time when
our relationship was at its most affec-

and yet the whole of the unconscious
man emerged, purposeful, self-tormenting, having himself firmly in
hand and then going to pieces again...
1916, 2 June. What a muddle I’ve

been in with girls, inspite of all my
headaches, insomnia, grey hair,

despair. Let me count them: there
have been at least six since the sum-

