SYN OI’ SI S
One fine morning Joseph K. is
preparing to go to bank, it also hap-

trying to locate tailor master Jameel

pens to be his birthday, when two
soldiers enter his room. They forbid
him to leave his room. What is his
crime? Even the inspector fails to
give him a satisfactory answer. He
has just come to see how K. reacts to
his imprisonment. K. is imprisoned
but he can go to his bank as usual.

who runs away when questioned.

Nonplussed, disturbed K. reaches his
bank. He is informed on the
telephone that he has to reach

Chetan Margon Sunday regarding

Khan he comes across an old man
He then tries to find out from the

street urchins but again draws a
blank. He comes across a pregnant
woman washing clothes who is sup-

posedly close to the Judge. She is
very inviting but nothing comes of it
as a lame man intervenes with a mes-

sage from the judge. K. tries to stop
her leaving unsuccessfully. The
woman’s husband tells her this is
nothing new. He is full of langour

but as he is an employee of the judge
his case proceedings. He has to men—
tion tailor master Jameel Khan, the
rest will be taken care of. His assis-

tant Saxena invites him for a party at
his home on Sunday evening but K.

he is helpless. ’The man’ takes him to
a suffocating place where innumerable people are waiting for
their cases to be heard. A nurse and

an information chief helps him to get
declines.
Late night before going to bed he

out of the place and take a breath of
fresh air.

comes to see his land lady Anna Bi to
INTERVAL

apologize for morning’s happenings.
Anna Bi consoles him and tries to
make him understand that this matter is connected with some

philosophy not theft. When he wants
to find out about Salma Tarafdar,
another tenant, slight tension

develops because Anna Bi obviously
dislikes Salma. After dissolving this
tension K. comes and tells himself to
face the situation and not to be
scared.

Joseph K’s uncle comes to his aid
and promises to take K. to
Raghupati’s house who is supposed-

ly very influential and will help him
sort out his care.
Joseph and his Uncle arrive at
Raghupati’s house where there is a
cross section of people who have
come with their different problems.

Raghupati’s secretary does not let
these poeple meet Raghupati. These

He then decides to tell Salma Taraf—

people revolt led by a girl, but uncle

dar everything. But he cannot do it
properly because he gets conscious,
he is strongly attracted to her, but he

manages to quieten these people and

feels she is mocking him. In his excitement K. screams, his behaviour
scares Salma and she pushes him
out of her room. He returns to his
room and tries to relieve the whole

day but he finds it is eleven in the
night and the day cannot be recalled
back. In a dirty street where he is

hence slyly enters Raghupati’s house
by the back door.
Mrs. Raghupati, an extremely
religious woman with an obvious village background, wants to get rid of
Chammi, a young girl of thirteen

who is uncomfortably close to her

husband. In K. she sees a potential
match-hence an easy way to get rid
of her. She pushes Chammi towards

