ABOUT THE PLAY
The play is woven around the compulsive circumstances
that bring together and confine several characters in one
place, a bar in a club house for some time.
Najma wife of Ayyub is the daughter—in-law of the owner
of the club house. She is waiting at the bar to meet her
old friend Dr. Rakesh. Dark foreboding clouds have
gathered in the sky threatening a downpour and floods.
Abdullah, the bar tender, would like to close the bar and

leave before they.al| get engulfed. But Pandit and
Jhunjhunwala, the regular customers, would not allow him
to do that. Though they are the only customers left in the
bar they argue that as long as Najma the owners daughter
in law and virtually the owner herself, does not mind
staying in the bar, they ought to be served. Pandit even
mentions an old affair between najma and Rakesh
embarrassing the bar tendr and his colleague Niyarnat.
Belatedly Dr. Rakesh arrives Najma talks to him about her
shattered marriage. She would not like to continue with
Ayyub she says. Rakesh tried to dissuade her from taking

drastic, decisions. But Najma does not heed. Rakesh flares
up. Despite Najma and her hunsand’s humiliating attitude
towards him, he has been seeing Najma whenever she
has called him, only because he loves Najma. Finding
comfort in this revelation Najma tries to console
Dr. Rakesh when her husband Ayyub arrives on the
scene.
Ayyub is armed with a pistol but undecided about the
target for its bullets.
Tension mounts. News arrives that the only bridge
between the club house and mainland has breached. in
ﬂoods

The engulfed bar is now an island, with no contact
outside. As the situations unfold the play moves on to an
abstract level.
'
Pair Tali Ki Zarnin has been rewritten by Ranjit Kapoor as
Mohan Rukesh Passed away and this was left unfinished.
Now Ranjit has also improvised it during reharsals mainly
taking glearnings from author’s other works.
५,
M
_

८….- दृ

ems ३३६६८ ८३३८3
बैत्का ३… C: मृदु 'दुनु

”Kiwis:
८५ 0. 0 '

i
‘1

"आँ

