Kurukshetragi peerang
About the play
Mothers live to see their children prosper. What would be the condition of a bereaved mother whose valiant sons have felled in a battlefield? It is immaterial whether
the mother belongs to the royalty or common people. A mother is a mother. The
anguish of a mother and the fire burning deep in her heart at the loss of her precious son cannot be easily quenched.
Wum/‘rsﬁef/ag/pee/aﬂg’ is set in the aftermath of the great battle of Kurukshetra,
fought between cousins, the Kauravas and the Pandavas. In the city of Hastinapur,
a grief stricken Kunti, comes to meet Gandhari, her sister-in-law, aiso equally heart-

broken, to console her. Kunti has lost only one son, Kama, whom she had refused
to overtly accept as her son. She still has her ﬁve sons, the Pandavas, alive. Gandhari
has lost all her hundred sons, the Kauravas. They talk about leaving Hastinapur
and head for the forest to retire along with Gandhari’s blind husband, Dhritarashtra.
Sevika and Kinkari, two maids in the palace, whose husbands and near ones have
also been Killed in the battle find it hard to digest the ways and thinking of the
royalty. For no fault of theirs, they have been made to suffer only because they
happened to be subjects of the king.

Panchali, another bereaved woman, daughter-in-law of Kunti, enters and the whole
scene changes. Overcome with anguish at having lost all her sons, brother and
father in the battle, she accuses the Kauravas for starting the devastating war -

Gandhari as their mother is equally responsible. A war starts again. this time of
words. They fling accusations and counter-accusations at each other. Who is the
propagator of the war? Who started it in the first place? Who is responsible for it? It
will be of little use to find the answers. Devastation has already taken place. They
ultimately come to realise and lament that each one of them has a hand in starting
the war. The only thing left for them to do is to undo the past mistakes and rebuild
Hastinapur to bring back its past glory.

Has anyone ever bothered to think about the woes of the bereaved mothers? War
and killings cannot bring peace and progress; it can only bring devastation.
‘ ;1t/z//2//r5/7e//ag/'peex27/7g ’ gives the message of bringing an end to the killings. War
and hatred should be done away with. A society can progress only when peace
prevails.

D i recto r i a l

Ema, Ma, Mai, Mutter, ... in whatever language it may be the word ‘mother’ rings a
bell in the head , soothes the mind and softens the heart whenever uttered or heard.

‘Mother’ symbolises love, affection, warmth and compassion. Mother suffers more
bearing the pang of separation at the tragic death of their children. The play
WU/Z/ksﬂef/ag/pee/a/y’is dedicated to the Mothers of Manipu r.

