"11113 TELEGRAPH CALCUT'I‘A SATURDAY 29 AUG

. Rivalry and hatred
I

- ५८ -

iﬁltiﬂltltﬂl- "

.

'

l

Ananda Lal
biquitous violence wrecking our daily lives keepsrecurring asa theme in contemporary Bengali theatre,
showing writers’ and artists’ concerns about its presence inour midst and the inability of social checks or administrative measures to curb it and protect us from it. Nandi»
pat’s O Chand explores how it has become almost impossible
for an ordinary citizen to exercise his right to travel freely within his own home state. The director, Saumitra Poddar, out»
spokenly accuses “political parties, irrespective of their colours," of usingterror frequently to attain their goal of power:
Basing hisdrama on a true recent incident, Debotosh Das
presents a Calcutta teacher, unconventional and with a mind
of his ownand apassion for trekking nature trails, who falls
captive to an extremist group in the Ayodhya Hills where he
has gone alone. Das does not draw the revolutionary movement insimply one paint: he depicts internal debate and dissent, to the extent that one of the cadre even questions their
authority to take innocent lives. But the sad and abrupt end '
leaves everyone shell-shocked. As noted by Poddar (though he
does not mentionthe source), of the 6,510 Indians killed in ultraleftist conﬂicts over the last ten years, 2,688 were civilians.
Structurally, Das makes a clean break between the domestic firsthalf in the city and the rebel camp in the jungle after
the interval ओं almost seeming like two different plays, not
just dilferent worlds. Poddar also acts the lead, which possibly compromises his characterization, somewhatlooser comparedto the tightly-directedportrayals of hisblind mother
(Sarbani Bhattacharya), hiswife preoccupied with running
the household (MonalisaChatterjee), and even their little
daughter (Kinkini Maity). ’I‘he guerrillas [picture] appear realistic, asdoes Sandip Suman Bhattacharya‘s forest set,
In a much more abstract, experimental style, Boral Rangrnanch’s wordless, one-hour Sada ebang Kala examines how
violence is virtuallyencoded into the human DNA ओं that we
cannot live without competing against others, which implies
rivalry and hatred, as Artaud argued. Soven Ganguly scripted
the scenario and directed two male actors (unnamed) into
physical and territorial confrontation, voicing sounds like
the great apes might and as men do. He opts for a happier conclusion, though, where his men, after having battered each
other, nurse each other back to health. Applying Grotowskian
techniques of training in arduous, elemental, outdoor conditions, he has honedhis performers’ bodies into tuned instru
ments. He now needs to devise sustained concepts to utilize
this talent at his disposal.

. ..…८1

l

L

