Sara {at
GOKHALEA

हैं.

SEPARATING THE BESTFROM THE
BANAI. ON MUMBAI'S CULTURESCAPE

आँ

Write to Shanta Gokhaie at um I uriei vilia

ililit‘ ugimiuioiil

Bound by love
A still iroln
the staging
of IAm Yusuf
and This is
My Brother

he most striking thing about
Aasakta and D For Drama's Mm
Yusufmid This Is My Brother, directed by Mohit Takalkar and staged at
the Prithvi Festival last Thursday, was the
practically bare stage. Followers of this
director's work are accustomed to seeing
a stage design'that intrigues the eye. In
this case, there was just a table at the

beginning and a low white'rock’ later,
that alsoserved as diverse seating

arrangements. As the stories of the charactersunfolded, the starkness of the
stagebecame part of the meaning of the
play. reflecting the fear, confusion and
misery that was invading their lives.
The play is located in the small village
oi Baissamoon in post-1947 Palestine,
Theland has been severed in two by a
United Nations resolution . The tempo~
rary mle of Palestine by Great Britain is
about to end. The personal story that
plays out against this troubled political
background is of Ali’s ill-fated love for
Nada. The two young people yearn to be
together but are severed, like their land,
by Nada's father who will not allow her
to marry Ali because hisbrother Yusui is
"odd" and the oddness might run in the
family. How Yusuf becomes the village
slmpieton is one of several stories woven
into the rich fabric of the play.
Once the British Mandate ends, and
Rutus, the representative tommy returns
to his beloved Sheilieid, the Israeli hall of
Palestine begins to eat into the Arab halt.
1111'1० 1९ further trouble for the lovers
when Nada’s father is killed [or being a
rollaborator and she suspech Ali oi the
trime While Baissamoon is ravaged, and
the villagers run hellur-skelter, not knowing which way to go or whether to go
anywhere at all, lialia the dream plateto

Whit h /\li intends taking Nada is also
or t'llpictl, Meanwhile, Yusuiconiinuus to
live in his own happy world where his
only fear 1९ of losing All, to whom he is
doggedly devoted. Ali’s reckless pursuit
oi Nada ends inevitably in death. As
Yusui watches him dying, already dead
rviugws in broer hooded t‘loaks do a
mat abre dance around them, waiting

for the moment when he will ht» one
at them.

in one of the most darkly humorous
५1६’11९'९ of the play, ltuius er lien wil h a

radio over which the UN voting Is broadtasi, "Soviet Union: Y 5, United

Kingdom: Abstained, United States:
Yes...”. 30 it goeson till the partition
plan is carried. Rufus in high glee hands
over the radio to Yusui, who holds it
aloft and giggles with delight,
There are poetic passages here of
remembrance and regret that add depth
to the play, fltiidiy translated by Salima
Raza from Palestinian playwright Amir
Nizar Zuabi’s Arabic original, into Urduliindi. Wisely left untranslated, are
haunting Arabic songs. sung in a pure.
ringing voice by lpshita Chakrabmty
accompanying a line of women in black
dresses, heads covered with white

scarves, crossing the stage with water
itchers. This is an eloquent symbol of
life persisting even as it is being systematically destroyed Another poignant
symbol of loss is the man from another
village who carries a wholetree on his
shoulder like a cross, to ensure that it Will
provide neither । riiit nor shade to those
who have robbed him of his [and
Most remarkably, the play is free of
anger. The playwright i\ not blaming
anybody. He is only retording stories
about what lite means even in the midst
of death. it means love …- Ali's tor Nada.
Yusui's for All. a young village maiden's
tor 1१11111९, old Nada’s [or old ‘r'usut.

Takalkar responds to the fluid strut»
ture of the play by keeping his ChJFJCKL‘l"
moving through quick-paced t'i)t'0tllt~
ters. He deploys them in unit away that.
aided by the lighting design (i‘radwp
Vaiddya), they oiien do what .1 set would
have done— divide the stage into 11111111pie acting \pates Another element that
atld\ to the visual etttx’t oi the whole
are ltaduni itode’\untimy but highly
effective emtumex.
the pertormanti-s are resonant and
itill-blotxitxl, marked by stylised \pceth
patierth and uninhibited physit’aliiv
Mrinmayu- tuidboic as Nada it an
intenw wrll»o'-the-\\'isp. ,litendra lmhi’x

All i.\ passionately articulate. Ashixh
Mehta’s older Yusui matt’hes the younger
periu'tly, and lpshila Lihakraborlv,
besides havinga magniiitcnt time has a
magnetic stage presence lowering abm L'

them ali is Ait-t-i Slngh l’alan'at .t\ the
youngI t’iisui. a rcniarkalilv 111५11111९11 oi an
औ९ता'२है९९९ज1३.1'९8वा1९।1'अतहि९९,

1४111। 11८1111.. 1५.। play that Ic.i\'t‘\
your \I'lt‘ll)ll|llt‘\ tingling साधा। .।11६^1 11

hax ended.

l

