. ॰ gA
नटऱप्लद्ध मृरंस्तष्टान

oM nIn A rI c c:N1:
" '
३

i

‘

I

‘

HYDERABAD°

r

I-

क्या z n 9’ हाँ t
PM

Regd : 162 of 1964. A. P. Public Societies Registration Act No. l of 1350 FasliT’W‘ Mi “gm
r@HE Dramatic Circle—Hyderabad is the ﬁrst Little Theatre of it’s kind in the twin cities.
Till it was founded

1n
August this year, the theatre—goers in the twin cities looked to the Osmania Universi
ty as the only permanent
source of English plays. The actors and actresses, and the scores
of people who go to make a play found that _ once
they left their Alma Mater

they could not continue their hobby. The people who formed the Dramat
lc Clrcle—
Hyderabad, had in the past presented many plays for the Osmania University Dramati
c Club and other orgamsations
"in and outside the Osmania University. Most of you have seen these productions
—-Tagore’s Mukta — Dhara, Howard

Lindsay and Russel Cronse’s Life with Father, Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar and August
Strindberg’s Fadren.
O The theatre bug bit us when the idea of forming a Little Theatre of our own was
ﬁrst conceived by
Dr. Jay Gurian, the then Visiting Professor at the Osmania University. He had
directed Life with Father, Julius
Caesar, and Fadren in the past, and had by this time got us more seriously interested
in the theatre. The casual
pastime of our earlier stage frolics was converted to serious dramatics. Developing
our
talents
on and offstage became
a prime requsite. The urge to learn more, to organise ourselves, and to live up
to the motto ofbringing out the best
geplaced our casual stage appearances. We now knew that our audience would
not be satisﬁed with anythlng
ut the best.
0 We are now at the most crucial stage of our project. Many a time we reached the end ofour
resources,
many a time we almost gave up but then there was an incentive. It was the joy
which ﬁlls the amateur player, for
which We worked. The joy of realizing that all did go well. The joy in knowing that
the audience really liked the
production.
0 Behind the three-hour play today is months of work, sleepless nights, the racing
about on scooters and in
calrs, disagrefments and compromise that have kept us busy. And all the way,
we had that one goal to achieve that
al went we .
'

O The Dramatic Circle — Hyderabad, has been launched. The hull is in the
dock. The superstructure
has to be built. The ship has to be made seaworthy and luxurious. . .Thanks
to the many people who have . pooled
their resources to bring about this launching. Yet, with all this it is only a
begining. The future has much 1n store
for us...what else can we say now but to request you Gently to hear and
kindly to judge our play.

८८८८-८५

