"TE-IE MAN WHO CANIE TO DINNER’
(George S. Kaufman & Moss Hart)
George Kaufman and Moss Hart, in one of their most
hilarious comedies, depict the behaviour of arrogant
WHITESIDE —- wit, radio orator, authority on murder as
SHERIDAN
a ﬁne art, lecturer, friend of the great and the near great, and
the man who has
everything to with everybody else’s business. ‘SHERRY’, on one
of his lecture tours to the small Ohio town of Messalia, slips over
a piece
of ice on the doorstep of Mr. & Mrs. Ernest W. Stanley,

injuring his hip and suspending a series of lectures and appearances progra
mmed
by his sponsors. The invitation to dinner which he had very reluctantly accepted
is converted into a period of treatment and convalesence
at his hosts’ residence. During his stay he interferes in everything around
him so that Mr. Stanley ﬁnds his family on the verge of being
routed out of its own home.
The play

opens. ..with Sherid

an Whiteside having been
Dribbling Cow” at his terriﬁed nurse to the very end, the action is a seriesbedridden for two weeks. From the moment he yells “Great
of conﬂicts with the people around him. They wince and try
desperately to parry the blows of this tremendous personality with whom they
have come into contact.

Q Around him orbit his acquaintances and friends. . .and
hear the names of the great and the near—great mentioned with
same cordiality or contempt with which you would refer to your ownyou
friends and acquaintances, Sheridan Whiteside is awesome, fabulouthe
s,
terrifving despicable, and yet quaintly lovable.
Q The plays dedication is contained in an acid phrase...‘ To Alexand
er Woollcott for reasons that are nobody’s business’—and
sure enough, the who‘c theme is replete with undercurrents of
the style set forth in its dedication. Lorraine Sheldon, the ‘Blosso
m Girl’
Beverly Carlton, the ‘ Piccadilly Pen—Pusher ’; Bert Jefferson,
the ‘Inkstained Hack’; Harriet Stanley who’s right out of The
Hound of the
Baskervi/les, an

"i MAGGIE ! — Maggie Cutler, Whiteside’s eﬂicient secretary, and the
only person who seems to have any control over this
human terror and who may someday write a book about her boss entitled
Cavalcade oflnsult or Through the years with Prince Charming !
Q The small plots and counterplots that appear through the play are
superbly humorous and wittily consructed, being a
characterization of the impotence of ordinary beings around that strong—willed,
introverted col ossus—Sheridan Whiteside !

