About the College
The Jesus and Mary College, a constituent College of the University of Delhi, was
founded in 1968 by the Congregation of the Religious of Jesus and Mary, 3 religious congregation founded by Claudine Thevenet in Lyons (France) in 1818 and granted approbation by the Roman Cathollc Church in 1847.
It opened on 6th July,

1968, with 90 students, 8 lecturers and

5 members on the

administrative Staff. The present strength of the college is as follows : कि
Students - 980
Lecturers - 55
Administrative Staff - 15

Some Aims

The aim of the Jesus and Mary College is to make God known and loved by means of
Christian education , in all social milieux, with the preference which Claudine Thevenet had
for the young, and among these, for the poor. The College therefore, offers an integrated
all-round education, one that is at once intellectual, cultural, social, emotional, physical,

aesthetic, moral and Spiritual.

To this end the college is a community of learning in which all its members, i.e.
students and staff (academic, administrative and maintenance), participate. It interacts for
mutual benefit with its social milieu, i.e. parents, university and government agencies, and
other private, social, cultural and educational bodies.
Ac a d e m i cs

Our College has organised several seminars in the past. I n 1979 the English Department of the College organised a seminar on ’Modern Consciousness in British Fiction, Post
World War l'.

The Economics Department also organised a Seminar in collaboration with the Standing
Conference of Public Sector. This was followed by a symposium organised by the Cornrnerce Department in collaboration with the South Delhi Campus of Delhi University. The
symposium was on Prospects of Industrial Policy in India.
Our results in the University Exams. have been good over the years and some of the
toppers in the university have been students of our College.
Future Plans
.
this year and plan to
Honours
History
introduced
We have
Honours, and Music in the future.

introduce Philosophy

We also plan to introduce M.A. tutorials in Sociology, English, Political Science,
Economics, Psychology, Hindi and Commerce.
I
.
Building Plans
um
gymnasr
a
are
nts
We plan to build a library and staff Quarters. Our sports requrreme
a hockey field and a wall for the sports field.

