' l : शुक्ला

An evening of dmpad left
sandhya sen suitably enthralled
THE ioint olfering of a concert by [TC Sangeet Research

Academy and Ramkrishna Mission lmtitute of Culture under the
aegis oiArpart marked a ﬁtting tribute to Swami Vnekananda
under whose massive posters. thefestival was held. As with entry
year, this time alsothe concert included both teterans as well as
rising y'oungters.
AioyChalu'alnny, the condudingartiste of the opening

session litup the evening withhis elaborate interpretation of tlte
rag shank/1m. “Swamji not only lowed Dhrupad butwas a great

Dhrupadsinger himself“. said Chaluabtrrty beforethe recital.
Also mentioning dial Swamiji was a devoteeof lord Shiva, his

selection of sbankamwas indeed appropriate. Marked with
gravity the mbat' br‘rlar in ma
saptak drew out the sombre
temperament of themelody irtits true sense.

'lhe powerful resonance of his voice was tempered widi
suggestite artistry. if his birtar depicted the meditative calm of
Lord Shiva the evrmtive swgam reﬂected the thytlunic
buoyancy of the Joy of attainment. Chakralyarty knew howto

draw out the complete picture of a tag: with proper display of
technical repertoire. The Ibwmi, which followed. emerged as an
artistic relief afterthe kbayalin शांता. Hisromantic

approach to uniting the be!with the melodic structureofpﬁu
was soulstirting In thetreatment of every phrase, two throbbing

hearts spoke in a language of their own.
Bowing to the wish of his ﬁns, C
‘s rendition ofa
devotional hymn brought the house down. lndraniBhaduri and
hoti Guha provided able accompaniment on tabla and
hartnonium respectively.
The programme opened With the VOCll recital ofthe
promising youngtet', KumarMardur. His demonstration of
pun’j'a dbanas
was quite good in thedepiction of mth
mp4. Admirable alsowas his ntl/aj in the treatment of the
sobriety in the evening raga Both in bilambt‘l and druibismr.
the tan. MIMI and targam were expanded with clarity. Although

the «mum phase larana went well with the fiendish. a bitmore
nyaa: on nteend phase would have helped.
The instrumental music of the evening {canned Ayan
Sengupta He took up the raga ntatmbilmr for interpretation.
required a greater stress on sttui. Marked by bold smokes, both
of his gals irt slow and fast tempo, were pleasing. The min] of
hisdrbut and Irisaplok mus, combined with the balanced
treatment oigayalet' and Iattlrakir, bore the stamp of exemplary
training.
What drew one's attention was the desired interpretation of
the melody sustaining the rule olkulialt and bilmg in the
melody structure oflrabwt rbala. litth insalbsaugar and
thljauub l‘antlit Saturn Salli! ms (in tabla.

चंद्र .

1hr:de any:of his alap त्मा distinctwhile the slow phase

