Kalya nee Mu lay in scenes from uriSeen

Body Politics
In her play, unSeen. actor Kalyanee Mulay measures, shaves and stamps herself
to makea case for the liberated woman
[ETTEKS ARE rriearit to beread, but the one
written by Rabindranath Tagore in 1891
was different. “l saw it as a text that did
something to my body," says Mumbai—
based actor Kalyariee Mulay. Tagore had
writtena shodorig11115511/६ titled RaiiiabaierBakn’tarUpolakklte, an ode topatriarchy.
upholding tenets. such as "obeying her
husband is a woman's duty andshould not
becoriipared to agoru saliibgivmg I nstructronsto natives”.
Goa-based director Vishiiupad Barve
found the letter In the SahityaAkaderiii library. lodged under “Miscellaneous
Tagore".and he dismissed the idea of per»
lorrriing It as a dramatic reading or a con»
versation on stage. With Mulay, who had
been his jUTllOl" at Delhi's National School
ofDrama. he created LinSeen.a 55-minute
rion~verbal playwhose ﬂight path begins
With Tagore‘s words but meanders into
contemporaryrealities ofbeirig awoman.
The play. by Process TheatreZ. will be
staged as part of “Ignite! . a Festival of
Contemporary Dance."in Delhi onOctober
14 Excerpts from ani ritervtewwith Mu lay:

It is notjust abody; it is mybody in this
space. While performing iinSeen. I got a
chance to explorethe often—blurred line be
tween the public and the private nature of
being female. During rehearsal. weasked
the others at the residency to stamp my
bodywherever they wanted. 1 was stamped
at several places. from tongue to toe. We
have kept some ofthese places inthe play
where 1 stamp myself.
Does theplay also drawfromyour
personal experiences?
As I look at it. a solo performance is.
rriost of the time. based on the direct
riences of the performer hirriself or her»
self. The emotional story is the perforrner's
story, one way or the other.In the Touch
segment. for i nstance, I do an action in
which i sit with my legs wide open and
then slap rriyself in the thighs.This action
emerged suddenly.possibly. from amemory ofbeing told as a child, 'Why are you
wearing Bermudas' and 'Don't sit with
yourlegs apart.’ After idid this. my (111१८torand l didn'tspeak about i L My mouth
is wide open in ﬂiis 30-second sequence.
It meansdifferent things to the audience;
some have seen this as rape. others as love
making. For me. it is about holding
that moment.

HowdjdTagore’s letter trigger the

play.

i

In 2012. we were marking 1 50years of
Rabindrariath Tagore's birth. and Vishnu
(Vishnupad Barve)was searching for away
to look at the Nobel laureate differently.
Duringthe investigation. hefound the letter written by Tagore when he was in his
305 in response to l’aridira Ramabai‘s
speechthe year before. (The soaal reforriier
had caused aruckus at a scrth in Pune by

How wasthe process ofcreating the
playdlu'lnga residency in Goa?
The residency lasted alrriost two
months. duririg which I had to think about
the various ways in which I lookedat my
body.Two ﬁrieartiss madethe props while
Vishnu (the director)craRed the sound installation from kitchen utenSils. Thesoundscape finds rhythrri in the different things
that womendo in the kitchen. and there
are two intervening songs — one frorii
Cliandalika and the other a piece of
rarrip musrc.

saying'Women can doanything a man can.
except drink alcoltol.')'lhe letter was pub

lished in Bflﬂwll Periodical. Twenty years
later. Tagore became one ofthe spearheads
of women's emancrpation. This showed
that he had undergone a huge personal
transformation. Our question is. '15 50(1er
still like the yourigerTagore?’ urLSeeiiIS not
based only on this letter but II started a
churning in our minds.

The play hasbeen performed at major
venus. from Colombo interm donal
Theatre Festivalto lntemational
Theatre Festival ofKerala.and won
acclaim from the theatre community.
But. did everybodysee the same playor
did it changeevery time?

What is the narrativestructure of
the performance?
The play has several dwisions ~ gaze.
touch.sanilatton or beautification. kiss.
menstruation. becoming a deity
and fan-

tasy rampwalk, stamp and home. InTouch,
1 measure every unit of my body
usmg a
tape while ।। i Sriiiiiulioii , ।explore
ift he (one
veiitions ofcleanliness .tie a woman's
perr

soiial chorceor has she been conditioned
if

she has body hair, why doesn't she feel all
right? I shave my legs on stage In this seg~
merit. Rump Walk is when she
does a fan

tasy sasliay wliile dressed tii househol
d
things, llkL‘ a skirt made Irorii a liib or
a
washing itiai liinu pipe act mg
as a corset oi

arnixre bladeas a nose pm.
Your body is thrust under the spotlight
as the zone wherea machosmic
gender struggle plays out. How did you
experience the playas anactor?

As things goon in the outsideworld. my

perfo rmancc beg ms to evolve in rerrrts of
the energy in my body and iiiy breath.
So rrie ti me5 la m a ngry. someIt ines 5arcas —

t1 c aii (1 s om et । । n es helpless. uri See n is
still evolvuig.
I,

