हुँ1३313 TELEGRAPH CALCUTTA SATURDAY 21 MAY—

आँ

३

० ० _

I

३ Humamstic message

l

Amanda “Llal
anakrishti has turned quite prolific this year, producing two original plays Within a few months. Their
long-term partnership with Slovenian dramatist
Evald Flisar continues, group director Amitava Dutta adapting Flisar’s two-hander; TakeMe into Your Hands, as Tamar
Ami. Scripts for two actors have become common in Western ५
theatre, because they keep production costs low, but Bengali
theatre still favours a cast of at least moderate size that gives
enough of their members scope to perform. So, TamarAmi
immediately stands out as an exception here.
The adaptation, too, naturalizes the source charmingly:
an older man running a bookstore owned by his family in
College Street advertises for part-time help owing to his
‘advanced
years. A
young, not

very welleducated
woman answers, and
represents
notjust another world,
but even a
new age,
both alien to
the proprietor. He has '
ﬁxed notions about
the purpose
of his establishment,
whereas she
has allkinds
"
of brainwaves about how to popularize it and push sales. A crisis
arises when he has difﬁculties staying aﬂoat, and decides to
sell off his stock. ५
Deb Sankar Halder and Bindia Ghosh (picture), accustomed to being paired off in many recent plays, get underthe
skins of their roles perfectly Both can individually steal the
show with their virtuosity, but they refrain from doing so,
creating the right equilibrium between themselves instead.
Their characters achieve a mutual respect in which seniority
and youth learn from, rather than disparage, each other: ——
Flisar’s humanisticmessage. To back them, Tapas Mill has
designed a quaint College Street bibliophilic ambience.
Amitava Dutta juxtaposes this love of books almost
deliberately with dipsomania in Wine Flu, a satire written by
Udaynil Bhattacharya, where a city falls under the sway of
alcoholism. The grandson of the founder of a nationalistic
business (paralleling the grandfather who set up the shop
in TamarAmi) ventures into manufacturing whisky. The
brand and company ﬂourish with the patronage of politicians, intellectuals (notably one Jibansudha Pan) and escort
services. Even children turn to drink. The plot seems haphazardly arranged at times, startingwith a lost shoe, found by a
sorry detective duo, Who later undertake to bring the distillery to book, but Dutta directs in properly farcical spirit while
retaining the political thrust targeting the mercenary nexus
* behind crony capitalism. Shubhashis Gangopadhyay and
Dipak Das enact the sleuth and sidekick as unlikely heroes.

