STYLE AND CONVENTION OF THE
CLASSICAL GREEK THEATRE
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES : a) THE STAGE : This consisted of a wide
narrow platform and behind it was the ‘SKENE’ building which acted as a scenic
background. The stage was called ‘Proskenion’ and was raised to about 10 feet above
the ground level. The wall of the skene building was pierced by three doors for the
exists and entries of the actors. The front wall was interrupted at the sides by
projecting wings called ‘PARASKENIA’.
The skene building, often extended beyond the diameter of the orchestra circle.
At each edge of the auditorium and ends of skene building there were passage wzth
huge arches, used both, by the chorus and spectators; which were called ‘PARA DOS’.

The skene building consisted of two stories, the upper of which was called,
‘ EPISKENIO N ’ from where the gods appeared. The raised platform, which was the
main stage was called the ‘LOGIO N’ (speaking-place). In front of the Skene building
and into the auditorium there was the ‘ORCHESTRA CIRCLE’ where the chorus
sang & danced. It was 78’ in diameter. THE A UDITORIUM. The auditorium was

called the ‘ THEATRON. It was circular in shape. A little more than a semi-circle,
carved out of three sides ofa hill. It was tiered in stone. There were passages for approach to the seats. The entry was through the Parados.

The once, theatre-in-the round of the early Greeks was now on the decline.
There was now a separate skene building and stage where the actors performed but
the chorus sang, danced and exchanged dialogues with actors from the orchestra circle.
So part action of the play was done amidst the audience. And yet the Skene building
and theatron where two independent units connected by the gateways, Paradoi.
The Greek theatre presented three kinds of play ‘TRAGEDIES’, which dealt

with heroic legends and often used gods for convenient endings. The ‘SAITYR’ plays
which burlesqued such legends and indulged in bawdy mimicry set off by a chorus
of Satyrs ; and ‘COMEDIES’, which dealt in a broadly farcical way with current life.

All the three had some features in common. They were performed at fixed
ceremonies of a religious and civic nature, i.e. in honour of the God Dionys
us, the
god of wine and fertility.
The Greek tradegies were supposed to have grown out the dithyramb, or
choral

hymn sung to Dionysus. The original dithyramb, told the story of this deit
y, who began
as the child oneus, and a mortal and was later reborn as a god.
They employed
chorus, in intertudes between scenes of action and after with scen
es,
The chorus was an important factor in a Greek perfor
mance. It had many
functions. It was a) Representing the local people b)
a character c) Narrator,
d) Comentator. It usually sang and danced in the orche
stra circle. The movements
being slow, flowing in a choreographic pattern. It had di
rect rapport with the actor.
The chorus did not use masks.

