NOTE ON JAYADEV HATTANGA
DY

An alumnus

of the

National

School of Drama and Asian

Theatre Institute,

New Delhi, he got the ‘Best producer’s
Award for his Diploma production of
Mahesh

Elkunchwar’s ‘Yatna Ghar’ in the year 1
973—74.
His ﬁrst directorial venture ‘Changuna’ a
Marathi adaptation of Lorca’s
Yerma

got the Best Production, Best Direction,
Best Actress, Best State Lighting
Awards at the 14th Maharashtra State
Drama Festival in 1975.

The other plays he has directed are Badal Sar
car’s ‘Abu Hassan ’ and Vaman
Patrikar’s ‘ Bhint ’. For Awishkar’s ﬁrst t
heatre training workshop he dramatised
and directed P. L. Deshpande’s short sto
ry‘ Mhais.’ His Hindi Musical play
‘Poster’ written by Dr. Shankar Shesh has co
mpleted more than 70 performances.
The Maharashtra State Government and the Go
a Kala Academy have many
a times appointed him to conduct Theatre Trai
ning Workshops, in order to inculcate in theatre enthusiasts seriousness and
sincerity required for good theatre.
Jayadev along with his wife Smt. Rohini Hatta
ngady was invited to conduct a tenday acting practical training course at theatre
workshop organised ‘by the Maharashtra State Government, Cultural Directorate, at
Pune. He has directed plays
plays he has directed for textile mills in Bombay a
re ‘Vyankatesh Madgulkar’s
. ‘ Nama Satpute ’ and Dilip Pardeshi’s ‘ Kalok Deth
Hunkar’.
He has also produced musical plays for the Television,
and has directed a
Television Film for Bombay Doordarshan Kendra for
the programme‘ Kamgar
Vishwa’.
Jayadev has also to his credit, interestingly so, of
acting in Basu
Bhattacharya’s ﬁlm, ‘ Madhu Malati ’ and Ravindra Dharmara
j’s ‘ Chakra’ in
signiﬁcant roles and comeo roles in Saeed Mirza’s ‘ Arvind Desai K
i Ajeeb Dastan’
and ‘ Albert Pinto Ko Gussa Kyon Ata Hai ’.
The Shri Ram Centre for Art and Culture, New Delhi had invi
ted Jayadev
to direct ‘ Panch Choron Ka Vesh ’ a Gujarati Bhavai folk play in
Hindi. He has

also worked with the Shri Ram Centre’s reportory company wher
e he produced
Badal Sarkar’s Comedy, ‘ Vallabhpur Ki Roopkatha. ’
He has to his credit Eugeno Ionesco’s The Lesson and Jean-Pau
l Sartre’s

‘Men Without Shadows ’, both in English which he directed for colleges in Bo
mbay.
Recently Jayadev assisted Sir Richard Attenborough during the dubbing
of

the ﬁlm ‘ Gandhi’ in Hindi.

