AW l S H KA R A N D C H H A B l L DA 5
Chhabildas School’s contribution to theatre is not new, as we now know the late
Prithviraj Kapoor and his troupe have had rehearsed many of their classics in the
school’s hall.
Awishkar’s service to the theatre movement in the city is of aquiring the Chhabildas

Boy’s School Hall through the couttesy and generosity of the Governing Body of
the General Education Institute which runs the school in Bombay. And renting
it to theatre groups doing experimental, away from the beaten track theatre work,
at a very nominal charge in Dadar, which is now the heart of the city.
Plays at Chhabildas are never done with an eye on the box-ofﬁce. They are
meaningful and purposeful plays, without a stance, bais or prejudice,
but which nevertheless would like to make the artiste, the doer and audience the seer,

aware and percelve the changing human values.
Plays in Marathi, Hindi, Malyalam, Tamil and Sindhi have been performed
at Chhabildas. The Indian National Theatre Bombay has had performed,
many a marathi traditional theatre forms in this hall.

The work done by the members of Awishkar is honorary; none of the artists derive
any monetary beneﬁts. But the work is of a high professional standard, in
terms of competence, integrity and ethics.
None can accuse its members of being mercenary.
Awishkar’s training programme has covered a vast area of performing arts.
Prof. Ashok Ranade, Head of the Department of Music, University of Bombay
has con‘dlucted speech and voice culture training workshops which have been very
success u .

Smt. Sulabha Deshpande has been conducting Children Theatre Workshops,
and young boys and girls from various schools have beneﬁted from this workshop
since August 1975.
Awishkar’s yearly feature of two Theatre Workshops for Adults, conducted by
Jayadev Hattangady and Smt. Rohini Hattangady for the past eight years have
induced in theatre enthusiasts seriousness and sincerity required for good theatre,
which is the basic arm of the workshops. Many participants of these workshops
are now active members of Awishkar as actors and technicians. Some have
gone to their own groups or have formed new groups in their own locality.
These short term theatre workshops are mostly acting oriented, and also impart
basic knowledge of the technical aspects of theatre. One aspects of the workshops is
that the participants are exposed to both the Indian classical tradition
and western systems of theatre.
In 1979 Awishkar started its children unit ‘Chandrashala’ under the supervision of
Smt. Sulabha Deshpande. This unit conducted various projects such as Dance,
Puppetry, Drama, Chitrakathi, Group painting, Kirtan and story—telling so far.
. Eminent dance choreographer Guru Parvati Kumar and dance director Ramesh
Purav, and dedicated pupeteer like Madhulal Master, have trained

and guided the projects of Chandrashala.
Awishkar’s children ﬁlm club in colaboration with the children’s ﬁlm society of
India, started in 1979, held a festival of ten ﬁlms in Plaza Cinema, which was
followed by ten different ﬁlms screened at the basement of the Saraswati Mandir
High School in Mahim and now regularly in Badal Cinema for twelve sundays.
The aim is to expose children to good cinema in their own locality.
Awishkar is striving to establish more such clubs in the various parts of the city.

