About the group
in Bharatia Natya Shashtra acting in divided into four main categories. Angika, Vachika, Aharja & Satvika. To communicate the thoughts the actor has
to take the help of his body, voice, costume & the mind. Keeping in mind
the importance of the presence of the actor in front of the audiance, his
body movement and to use it in a theatrical form we form this group

‘Angika’. Its first production in Rassoman Gate in which we adopt the
‘Chhon’ martial art form of Orissa. It will be our aim to find out the possibilities
in the traditional form & its application in to the modern theatre, for a bettercommunication.
,
/
Your blessings and encouragement l$ needed.

Members of the group Angika

About the play
Rassornan gate is an old broken monument of Japan, which is new term into

crimetion ground. This old gate symbolises the past. To get rid of rain three
persons gathered here and started discussing about the story of a rape and
a murder. During the course of discussion many unexpected facts disclosed

and diffrent stories regarding one TRUTH i. e . the rape of the wife and murder
of her husband come into light and ultimately a cry of a new born baby in

that crimetion ground makes us aware about the "TRUTH", which come like

alight in darkness.

What is the real TRUTH?
We people are very much clever to narratte it. We only speak that much in
which the society will belive on us. TRUTH veries from person to person. It is

like a glow warm that glitters here, there, and ultimately fades out.

Satya brata Rout

DIRECTORS NOTE
। strongly felt that we must look back to our traditions to be origional. In our
traditional theatre Actor, stage craft and audiances are not seprote factors.
During the process of show a kind of undercurrent flow from the stage to the .
auditorium in which all flooded out to get "PARAMANANDA". This potentiality
of communication is deeply rooted in our traditional forms.
For that reason I choose ‘Chhon’ form of Orissa to concieve display. Par—
ticularly I gave emphasis the actors body language. I feel that actors body
is the most communicative medium. All the emotions can be carried out
through the actor body movement it can create atomOSphere and tention
for the play. For this reason I adopted this method to build this play.

। have tried to create a total theatre where music, 'so'uid speech and movement bind together into one tone to convey the meaning of theproduc—
दृ
८-०-३८ हैं-वा-सुद्ध ,
tion

ii

दृ
Satyabrata Raut
.

.

__

9‘°\‘J.l

९yerI{I}दृ६:7\1

