GEORGE mum" - A TRIBUTE TO MOLIERE's
cou'rEuPonAmTv
“George Dandin” marks without doubt, the summit of the

masterpieces churned out by Moli‘ere‘s, but this representation of his,
in the gardens of Versailles in July 1668 coincided with the pinnacle
of the reign of Louis XIV. The play was staged to celebrate the

consecration of the French victory as a result of the treaty of Aix-IaChapel le .
Moli‘ere‘s “George Dandin” , the central character of the play is
the 17th century prototype of the modern-day concept of a “social
climber". The saying “money makes the world go round” applies as

much as to Dandin, as to many amongst us.

And it is this very

contemporaneous touch to Moli‘ere's plays that makes him stand apart
from his playwright counterparts.

George Dandin, a middle-aged rich peasant, marries Angelique,
a girl half his age, belonging to the aristocracy in a bid to enhance his
social status and bear affinity with the “blue blooded”.
What follows is the comic sequencing of how Ang‘elique two
times her husband, to indulge in romantic liaisons with Clitandre — a
gentleman. Dandin makes .rnany an attempt to demonstrate to
Angelique’s parents, her infidelity, but has to eat a humble pie every
time in front of an ever alert and clever Angelique.
The climax of the play is in done in the typical, inimitable style of
Moli‘ere. Dandin has just about caught Ang‘elique red-handed, but
just when he is on the verge of proving it conclusively, she once again
turns the table on him with remarkable presence of mind and it is
Dandin who is made to look the villain of the piece.
However, behind all the humour and fun, lies the “veiled intent”

of Moliere. Through his plays, George Dandin, hardly being an
exception, Moliere wishes to highlight the “social dichotomy" of his,
and indeed, our times. It also bears an ample testimony to the fact
that human nature has not changed much ever sinte Moliere wrote
his plays. To this end, Moliere exposes the inherent weaknesses of
his characters, taking “sharp digs” at the “vices of men”.
Moliere's approach thus, appears to be a “correctionist” one, as
far as human nature is concerned. In fact, Moli‘ere evolved a peculiar
style of his own, which enchanted 17th century Parisiens and
continues to do so to this day all over the world. Moliere's style is so
fresh in content and the appeal so contemporary that he could easily

pass off as a 20th century playwright. In fact, Moliere was the perfect
epitome of what Montesquieu had once said, “To accomplish great

