deeds, one must not be above men, but be with them”. Moli‘ere's life
embodied his plays, his plays, his life.
Moliere's “theatrical voyage” took him from being an actor to a
director, then a producer and finally getting ‘anchored’ as a writer.
However, all said and done, Moliere was predominantly himself an
actor. Indeed, he appears to have scripted his plays less as a writer
and more as an actor - hence the pronounced emphasis on
movements, subtle gestures and fine-tuned mimicry, truly an actor’s
delight. It is here that the influence of Italian theatre, with which Moli‘ere
had the occasion to interact, needs to be underlined.
A string of commonalities runs through all his plays, bearing the
stamp of Moliére. First and foremost, in most of his plays, a woman’s
role is played inevitably by a male, an innovation, peculiarly
Moli‘eresque. In fact, Moliere's female characters have a definite
strength of character than their male counterparts. Secondly, Moliere,
himself portrayed a pivotal character in his plays, again the case of
the impulses of Moli‘ere, the actor, getting the better of the director in
him. Last but not the least, Moliere’s characters have a peculiarly
eternal and a contemporaneous hue to them, coming straight out of
the “time machine” into the present day, as it were. Were Moliere’s
characters made to don modern costumes, they could easily
interrningle and blend with the audience without standing
conspicuously apart - a trait to which even the famed Bard of Avon
could not have staked claim to - a tribute to Moli‘ere, the actor and
playwright.
His plays are open to many interpretations, as can be conjured
up, without shedding an iota of their appeal. indeed, Moli‘ere’s works
have transcended the boundaries of countries and barriers of
languages, customs and ethos. Moliere set his plays against the
backdrop of the bourgeoisie, or against that of the servants and
“valets”.
Through “George Dandin” - one of his lesser acclaimed plays
thus, Moliere wishes to force the audience into some honest soul-

searching and frank introspection. To convey his message with a
telling effect, Moliére takes refuge in humour and laughter, though in
between the lines lies a clear message - namely, were we to look
within ourselves, even today, there is sure to be a ‘Dandin’ and an
‘Ang‘elique’, may be even a Monsieur and Madame de Sotenville
stecked away in a quiet corner of our hearts, much though, many of
us might love to vehemently contradict it.

