Padatik
PRESE NTS

SAKHARAM BINDER
and 3 .
Padatik. within a short time, has become prorninet in the field of theatre
of
parts
t
differen
in
year
every
dance. As a theatre group it presents nearly 80 shows
,
been
have
plays
s
Padatik'
indie. Besides Shyamanand Jalan, its Resident Di rectOr
Kapoor, Anrnol
directed by Satyadev Dubey, Rajinder Nath, Fritz Bennewitz, Ranjit
as also Hindi
plays
original
ir.cludes
repertory
Its
Vellani, Rodney Marriott and others.
adaptations and translations.

Shakespeare's ’King Lear’, Vijay Terdulkar's ’Kanyadaan', Moliere's ’School

for Wives, Mohan Rakesh's ’Adhey Adhurey', Rodney Marriott's ‘Baarishwala' are
amongst its successful recent productions.

It conducts classical Kathak dance under Pt. Vijai Shankar and Odissi classes by Sharmila Biswas under the guidance of Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra. It has
Kathak and Odissi ballet units to perform from time to time at various places. It also
organises dance workshops by eminent Gurus.
Padatik has a small theatre and also a courtyard theater where

it re gulalty

presents young talent in rr.usic and dance.

Padatik has also organised National and International Seminars and Festivals, prominent amongst which have been those on ’lndian Dance Tradition and

Theatre’ in 1983 and 'Theatre in Dance and Martial Arts’in 1987.
Sakharam Binder is lower middle class book binder.

He

is middle-aged.

He does not believe in marriage and detests the emotional bonds and obligations arising from him. All he recognises are fulfilrnents of mutual needs. The man provides
home food and clothing. He expects from the woman fidelity, caring of the home,
providing the food and satisfying the physical needs of the man. A contract where
mutual rights and obligations are clear and there is no emotional or permanence Either
party can terminate it at wi I l . On such termination the woman walks out of his house
and has no further claims on him.
On the above basis he brings desolate and homeless woman and girls from
time to time.

He honestly fulfils his contactual obligations.

When he wants another

woman or finds any violation or breach of the contract,he throws out the woman he
is living with for the time being with a railway ticket to any place she may like to go
and with a couple of saris.

