. व्य-कब-मति-नी-ब--- w — .1.

1.1

a!

दृ a: ८ a
Trade Fair Authority of India

५ श्तारु «S १ ०५

VPresents

MANNINA BANDI(Kannada Play)
.wTranslated from Sudrakais
_
‘Mrichchhakatika“ by Bannanje‘
-८

Govindacharya.

Directed by

Atul Tiwari with Ninasam,Karnataka.
on 26th Feb,

l987

at 6.30PM
at Manzar Theatre

éxaeeaial
’Mrichchhakatika' has a-unique place among all Sanskrit plays.
The theme is social; the characters contemporary to the playwright,
the structure, rambling;

and most important of all, the style is

that of parody.
This play, believed to have been written by
Shudraka around 4th tentury A.D., with its defiance of certain
Conventions of the Sanskrit theatre, must have been a
_'revolutionary' work in its time. But like all great works
of art, it has, with its universal qualities, retained its
relevance even to the present day.
This masterwork of Sanskrit theatre has had several
translations in Kannada. Our production is based on the hitherto
unpublished, unused translation by Bannanje Govindacharya.
The director has this to say about the play and his
realisation of it on the stage.

'Long time ago, Bhasa wrote about the times of Charudatta
and Vasantasena.
He saw only the rCmantic love between these
two.
Shakara was there too, pursuing Vasantasena, but his
character would come to an early end.
There was also that thief,

Sajjalaka(Later, Sharvilaka), who used to thieve for the sake
of his beloved.
All these variations only extended the scope
of the theme of romantic love.’
’When, Shudraka began his version of this love story a

little time later, he could not finish off Shakara so early as
Bhasa and done./ By This time, Shakara's tribe had swollen and
their machinatidns had become odious.
The reaction of the peOple

to such a figure in their midst had also grown sharper.

Hence,

the petty thief Sharvilaka had to join hands with the peasants
and the solidiers, and desirefor a revolution if he wanted to
survive.
Eventually they all had to overthrow the kind, Palaka,

himself.’
'Thus, thieves and gamblers now made way into this old
gramework of romantic love; murders, royal chamber intrigues,
carts, traffic jams, law and politics seeped into the plot.
Yet, Shudraka never saw life as barren and depressing.

Life,

in spite of all its darker moments, was something full of
vigour and joy.

So, he created events that tickle us,

lines

that make us guffaw, and situations that carve a soft amused
smile on our lips.
And naturally, he gave his play a happy
ending where even Shakara receives pardon.’
...contd...

:

