As regards the Kendra’s creative work, it has been recognized by
discerning critics as ofthe highest quality both in conception and presentation. A number ofdance—dramas based on the folk technique or on

the claSSical' athak style have been staged. Ramlila is, perhaps, one of
the most spe acular productions of the folk variety. Rooted in the race
and the soil- i s alive with folk accents, and yet it has been so artistically
designed as to statisfy even the most discerning critics. In fact it is for the

ﬁrst time that this ancient epic has been presented in this unique form.
The Rarnlila troupe consists of about ﬁfty well trained artistes and the
length of the stage is about one hundred feet. it is a dance-drama of
magniﬁcent amplitude, powerfully attractive in its musical appeal and full
of oriental pomp and splendour. The Director of this Dance Drama is Guru
Gopinath and the Music & Orchestra has been done by Shri Jyotirindra
Moitra. Both these artistes are very well-known in their respective ﬁelds.

The lyrics are composed by Shri R. N. Shukla, who has been with the
Institution for the last 4 years and who writes most scripts of the Kendra.

The Convenor of this Project is Mrs. Saroj Sen, who has worked very
hard to make it a success.

The Kendra has procured the services of Shri Nizam Babban of
Lucknow for making puppets and also helping in the art direction.

Widely

diﬂerent in character

are

the

two

dance-drama

—Malati Aladhav and Kumar Sambhav— both bassed on the K a t h a k

dance technique. It may be relevant to point out that owing to lack of
patronage and other circumstances the Kathak style had almost completely gone out of vogue. A stigma came to be attached to it. There
is no doubt that this noble danceform would have become totally extinct
had not the Kendra made serious efforts to revive it and restore it to
its former grace and dignity. In fact the Kendra was the ﬁrst to realize
the immense potentialities of this technique and to adapt it to the
larger, broader and more logically integrated dance-drama form as exempliﬁed by “MaltiMadhav” and “Kumar Sarnbhav”. The way these two
ancient Sanskrit plays have been moulded into the Kathak style has
evoked universal admiration. Of particular interest is the music which
has a purely classical colouring both in its vocal and orchestral

aspects.

At the same time it has been so ingeniously designed as to reﬂect the
shifting moods and situations of the play. Thus musical classicism has
been liberated from its esoteric conﬁnes and given a much larger scope
for expression.

