Special attention has been given to the general style of presentation.
The costumes, gorgeous and resplendent, have been derived from ancient

sculptures and paintings, while the choreography has been done by the most
accomplished artistes. To this is added the superb charm of dancing with
its skilled foot-work and its beauty of mime and gesture language. In fact,
the Kathak dance-patterns as evolved by the Kendra’s choreographers are
so strikingly novel and attractive and so full of unpredictable originalities

that even those who once were conﬁrmed opponents of the Kathak technique
are now its enthusiastic admirers.
The Kendra is also interested in puppetry. It has already produced a
few puppet plays such as “Prithviraj Sanyukta”, “Dhola Maru” and
“Jhansi ki Rani”. The Kendra manufactures its own puppets and is zealously experimenting with new forms' and techniques. In this context it is
gratifying to note that our craftsmen have succeded' in investing the puppets

with motions of eyes, lips and writs which previously they lacked.
These are some of our achievements.

A great deal remains to be done. By far the most severe handicap

from which the Kendra suffers is the lack of its own premises. The growth
and development of the college is seriouly hampered by the absence of
hostel accommodation.
As regards financial resources the Kendra would like to see a state

of affairs emerge when its existence is ensured by something more than
mere ad hoc receipts. It is to be earnestly hoped that the members ofthe
Kendra as well as those deeply and vitally interested in our country’s ३
cultural revival will give their whole-hearted support to the Bharatiya Kala
Kendra and its activities.

The institution is deeply grateful to the Prime Minister Pt. Jawahar
Lal Nehru, the Ministry of Scientiﬁc Research & Cultural Affairs,
Sangeet Natak Akadami,

the

the Handicrafts Board of the Government of

India, Delhi State & Delhi Municipal Corporation for their
without which the institution could not have achieved its aims.

patronage

