Who’s who of “Ramleela” Ballet Troup
DIRECTORS
l. Guru Gopinath : Directors of the troup. An authority. on the Kathakali
style of dancing, Guru Gopinath does not require any special introduction
to the art-lovers of India. He is not only an exquisite performer but also
creator of a great variety of many new dances. His theoretical works
are text books for the students of Kathakali.
In “Ramleela” ballet, Guruji has made a masterly blending of modern
choreography with the rich traditions of Kathakali and other styles of
classical as well as folk dances of India.

2. Jyotirindra Moitra : Music Director. Took training in classical music
from Shri Vishmadev, an eminent disciple of Badal Khan, and then for
three years in the Rampur Gharana.

He has composed more than 200 songs, four operas and musical extravaganza including ‘Naba Jibaner Gan’ (The song of new life), which led a

new song movement in Calcutta. He has directed about 20 Tagore dance
dramas and has directed music of a number of ﬁlms.
One of the

founder

members of the Bengal branch of I. P. T. A., be is

intimately connected with musical and other cultural activities of Calcutta
for over 20_years.

3. Timir Baran : Timir Baran is basically a Sarod

player.

He

took

training from late Ustad Amir Khan (5 years), and Ustad Alauddin
Khan (5 years). In 1930 joined Udai Shanker as music director

and toured all over Europe and America with his troup. At this
time his genious as poineer of Indian orchestra became evident.
In 1934 he joined New Theaters and later joined C.A.P. which starred
Sadhana

Bose.

His most

remarkable creations of this

period

was

music of ‘Devdas’ and ‘Rajnartiki’ (Court Dancer). Later he created his
OWn orchestra, collected musical instruments front different countries of
South East Asia, with which he enriched his orchestra. He has also done
pioneering work in the ﬁeld of symphony with Indian melodies.

His symphony “Hungry Stone” based on Tagore’s Story “Kshudhita
Pashan” (composed in [943) is worth mentioning. '

