D A N C ERS

4. HirendralalKundu : Had his initiation in dancing from Pralay Kumar
Guha. Later he worked for 5 years with Udai Shanker, went to China with
him. Thereafter he toured the whole of Middle East with the Indian
Revival Group. Kundu has recently joined the troup.
of Ram.

He plays the role

5. Krishnan Namboodri : A serious student of Kathakali he took his training

from P. C. Chellapan and Guru Gopinath for a number of years. Later
he worked with Udai Shanker and toured China with him. He plays the
role 0 f I. a k s h m a n .

6. Shambhu Bhattacharya : In his teen ages joined Calcutta I. P. T. A. and
developed into a ﬁrst rate dancer. His tableau “Runner” has been performed over 5000 times. He toured Europe with the late Bulbul Choudhury. He has composed a number of dance-dramas and dances.
the role of Ravan.

Plays

7. Pradeep Shanker : Learnt Kathak from Lachhu Maharaj and folk dance
from Parvati Kumar. As the leading partner of Madam Sitara he toured
East Africa, Directed dance of 2/3 ﬁlms. Now learning Kathak from
ShambhuMaharaj and Birju Maharajat the Kendra. Plays the role of
Bharat.

8. DilipChoudhury : First class diploma holder of West Bengal Sangeet
Natak Academy. Learnt Manipuri from Guru Nadia Singh and Bharat
Natyam From Guru Maruthappa Pillai. Worked with Udai Shanker for a
year and toured Middle East with The Indian Revival Group.
role of Satrughan.

Plays the

9. Keshavan Namboodri : Nephew of the famous Kathakali master Guru
Shankaren Namboodri. Learnt Kathakali at home as well as from Guru
Shanker Panikker and Raman Pillai. Worked with Udai Shanker, Guru

Gopinath and Jogendra Desai. He is 34 but has already acquired 20 yrs.
experience in this line. Plays the roles of Hanuman and Parashurarn.
10. K. Shekharan : Learnt dancing from Shri Narendra Sharma in the ﬁrst
“Ramleela” ballet in 1957. He has learnt the art of making stage ornament and has prepared all the ornaments this year. Learning Kathakali
from Guru Gopinath. Plays the roles of Jatayu, Meghnad and Khewatraj.
11. Balkrishana ‘Badal’ : A commercial artist with a good knowledge of stagecraft. Since last two years doing art direction of C.L.'I‘. productions.
Plays the roles of Sumant and S ukhen.

