SYN O P S I S
Devyani is the daughter of Shukracharya and presently the queen of yayati.

Shukracharya is famous for his short temperament and "Sanjeevanee Vidhya".
Sharmishtha; In her past was the princess of "Asur Rajya", where Shukracharya had
his ashram made friends with Devyani.
a lot.

Despite of being princess she loved Devyani

She supported Devyani when "Kutch", one another prince left Devyani in a

very vulnerable situation.

She cared for her as a kind friend.

But in a bad moment

Devyani hurts Sharmistha by calling her “Rakshasi”. As a result Sharmistha by loosing
her control on herself pushed Devyani in a well. There Yayati saved Devyani from
that well by holding her right hand. According to that time rule than he accept her
Devyani being very clever, encashes her father’s status made
as his wife.
Sharmishtha the princess and her friend her "Dasi".

Pururai the son of Yayati, with his first queen who is no more in this world.
Coming back to home after getting married to "Chitralekha" - Princess of Angdesh”
Yayati is busy in organising things for Puru - Chitralekha’s welcome, talk to
Sharmishtha so she should not act anything unpleasant as Sharmishtha keep on
dOing such things in palace to make Devyani feel hurt. But Sharmishtha discuss
the Situation with Yayati and tell her the other part of incident occurred in past. She
fascinate Yayati by her intelligence & conversations poWer.

Towards the end

Sharmishtha tries to consume poison as she is) fed up with all this game. Yayati save
her by holding her right hand unknowingly. Later on develops relation with her.
Devyani see all this with her naked eyes and catch them red handed. She scolds
Sharmishtha & Yayati and order Sharmishtha to leave her palace as well as Rajya.
gives a
There Yayati favours Sharmishtha and declared her as his queen. Which
her father
shock to Devyani. She gives up everything and quit the palace. She go to
on
who is in Rajya to attend Pururaj’s welcome ceremony which results a "Shrap"
Yayati by Shukracharya.

finds himself
As Yayati wants to fulfill some of his desires and "Yagya" so he
to come out of his
unable to accept the shrap. So pururaj accept it as he wanted
father’s shadow and do something different.

when faces the
Chitralekha is happy with whatever her husband has done but
Yayati tries to take
truth its becomes a shock for her so she asks puru to go away.
n. by his logics. But
care of situation and make Chitralekha understand his positio
poison as she .finds
Chitralekha defend all them and accept death by consuming
realise his drawbacks
herself rnisit between Yayati and puru. After her death Yayati
also.
and accept shrap back. Vanprastha the cosmic heavenly path

