Playwright :

Ramesh Bakshi, eminent young writer and journalist has distinguished himself in the
ﬁeld of Hindi ﬁction. He has so far published 5 novt ls and 3 collections of short stOries. He is
editor of a Hindi magazine “AAVESH”. An art ﬁlm is under making on his novel ATHAR
AH
SURAJ KE PAUDHE. “DEVYANI KA KAHNA HA1” is his maiden play.
३

About the Play :

The play seeks to dissect the man woman relationship which, to the playwright,
is nothing but boredom and intolerable meaninglessness. Devyani and Sadhan decided
to live together in a one room ﬂat in Delhi. Although they are not married, they tell their
friends and relatives that they are husband and wife. The entire play is broken into 3
parts, which explore different facts of the man woman relationship and analyse the reasons
that cause their coming together and drifting apart. The same relationship is explored
on different levels through introducing other characters in the play. Devyani’s father,
Tiwaranji (the land lady) pateria and Shakuntala, lra and Suresh, Rajaram, (the servant),
and Rekha Swaminathan, a Press Reporter. They are an added comment on the experiences
that Sadhan and Devyani live through in the three days of their life together. This
3-day experience is shown as an equivalent to the thirty years of a married life.

Another equally strong idea in the play is to present two diagonally opposite human
attitudes in life i.e. One which is calculative and scientiﬁc and the other which is Spontaneous
and instinctive. Devyani’s revolt is against all that is rational and which is accepted
as a right appoach in life, a result of the over emphasis on system and restrictions
in life.

But the main point of the play is not to condemn the system and reasoning
in life altogether. Devyani’s innerself too, perhaps knows the weakness of her own
outer approach. This is why she is not able to out away from Sadhan completely. Although
apparently she has left him, there is something which binds them together.

THE DIRECTOR

