o

‘

‘

_)

I

Bengali Stage Songs : I erspectives
The use of songs in serious or social theatre, as opposed to the musical or operatic variety, has always remained
a point of controversy. Basically, there is a dichotomy between the two : A song is essentially unidirectional;
it is centred around a single emotion. Theatre is, in essence, a potrayal of conflict, of emotions clashing.
Many are of the opinion that this difference is irreconciliable and, hence, the two cannot exist together.
This line of thinking is strongly prevalent in Western theatre where the serious stage rarely uses songs. The
attitude has a following in lndian theatre too, particularly the theatre that is influenced by the West.

Another school believes that songs have a meaningful place in lndian theatre provided its use is appropriate
and relevant. One strong arguement is that, ultimately, it is the audience that matters. And most lndian
audiences, particularly of Bengali theatre, has been reared on a tradition of Yatra and folk songs.
There are many examples of serious/social theatre using songs as the main medium of expression. There is
considerable opposition to this : ln serious theatre, songs should be supportive to the dialogue/action. It
should he used to illustrate an emotion rather than announce it.
Bengal i theatre has always made generous use of stage songs. Today’s programme does not attempt any kind
of a critical analysis between “good" or “bad" usage.
This even ing's presentation rests on the fact that songs have been integral to Bengali theatre throughout its
history of almost two centuries.
Given below are the comments of four eminent authorities of Bengali theatre. The comments that follow
have appeared in various Bengali publications. These were compiled by Devaj it Bandyopadhyay. Despite the
great diversity among the four in age, approach and technique, they were all a part of the twentieth
century—the most eventful century of Bengali theatre.

Prof. Chittaranjan Ghosh
८

Girish Chandra Ghosh (An extract from
"Pauranik Natak” by him)

Our critics advocate the abolition of songs from
Bengali theatre in emulation of theatre in other
(principally Western) languages. What they fail to
realise is the unique potential of the Bengali
language in terms of finding expression in song : A
potential which other “advanced” languages lack.
Hence any learned displeasure with'music in Bengali
theatre only exposes the critic’s ignorance of the
powers of lndian music. The cultural climate of
Italy comes close to that of India : The development
of the classical arts there, particularly in music,

exceeds by far that in the rest of the Western
civilisation.

In conclusion one can only state that ignorance was
never the route to bliss. Nor do we intend to descend
to the pits ofhell in the company of ignorant critics.

