Because I had realised that it was beyond me to
transmit, accurately and effectively, my innermost
thoughts and concepts about the music ofmy plays
to another person. Besides, like minded persons are

lntoning some words to the tune of kirtan while
sporting a tattered costume is not my idea of theatre
music. The lyrics and the melody compete for the
displeasure of the audience.

hard to find.

Imagine a statement on some contemporary social
problem being set to kirtan music. After all, the

Could such a trend among our theatre makers be
the secret of the steady deterioration of our stage
songs We. The reason lies in the ignorance ofour
established composers of music (in the true sense

ofthe word). Their only claim to fame is some kind
offamiliarity with fOlk music. Without a foundation
of classical music, your range becomes restricted.
And the escape route, inevitably, lies in the total
abandon of all classical, even ethnic music : Enter
“modern" music.

I take great care to refrain from comment on my
stage songs. Providentially, I find all my audiences
equally silent on the subject. They are quite vocal
on the plot, the performances—no further.
I have come to the realisation that, in the area of

theatre music, the ignorance of my audiences equals
mine.

Utpal Datta (From an interview with Dhruba
Gupta )

I could never accept that songs impede the pace of
a play, unless, of course, they are used
inappropriately in which case, they will naturally
affect the rhythm and movement of the play. After
all, the basic purpose ofa song is to express certain
feelings which 'are beyond words. Take the stage
songs of Girish Chose. I consider them the finest
in our theatre ever. Far from interfering with the
pace of the play, they added an extra dimension to
it. The drama of that moment, that situation would
become that much more meaningful, more
memorable.

This new found interest in the plays of Brecht had
certainly given an impetus to stage songs in our

theatre of the seventies. But the end result was not
necessarily musically acceptable : They were more
a parody of music.

music of kirtan, by itself, has an element of

monotony. It comes alive with the richness of the
words. Any attempt to use the music of kirtan

without the apprOpriate words is bound to sound
like a degrading parbdy.
One must accept that there is a chapter in our folk
music which is best kept hidden. This growth was
an inverted (or, ' perhaps, perverted) culture
designed for the dubious pleasures ofour zamindars.
The use of such 'music in a Brecht play is, in my
opinion, an open insult to Brecht and our folk
music.

३

Our traditional Yatra is a living example of the
effective use of classical music on stage. But such
musical integrity has now gone beyond our
capabilities. Our allegiance to theatre is now
confined to a few hours in the evening after a day’s
work at office. The best that we are now capable
of is “folk”, not “classical". Such a level of
involvement cannot give any grasp on classical
music or lead to the proper use of classical music
in theatre.
Integrating a bit of folk or, even, Western music
into a classical theme is an art of great skill. But
our contemporary theatre makers do not seem to
be interested in taking theatre music so seriously.

