The Programme
Throughout the world theatre, historically, has
followed two parallel routes :
i) the “entertainment" stage and
ii) the “committed" stage.
The maturity of theatre, in any country or
community, is reﬂected in the development of the
“committed" stage. While the “entertainment”
stage reﬂects the technical development of theatre,
the “committed" stage reﬂects its thematic
development: the capability of the theatre
Community to react to social realities, take a stand,
and give it theatrical expression. The birth of
Bengali theatre was in 1795 when a Russian,
Lebedeff, staged a play in Bengali, translated from

an English play. The next hundred years were the
formative years of Bengali theatre. By the begining
of the twentieth century Bengali theatre had
matured to the extent that the “committed” stage
was making its presence increasingly felt.

Today’s programme traces the development of
Bengali theatre during the twentieth century, along
both the routes of the “entertainment" and
“committed" stages. The index of measure is the
stage song.
Music being integral to theatre, the development
of theatre reﬂects on the development of its stage
songs. The songs of this evening, selected from
significant and successful plays, ranging from 1901
upto 1992, will be presented in their original form
and context. In the process, the development of
Bengali theatre, during the successive decades of
the twentieth century, will be defined.
By definition, the “committed” stage lives on social
issues : its progress leap frogs from social upheaval
to social upheaval. The “entertainment" stage is
not dependent on any such external forces. lts
progress is therefore much smoother and steadier.
The pattern is reﬂected in Bengali theatre during
the twentieth century : A century that was
particularly eventful for Bengal.
i) By the end of the nineteenth century Bengal
was at its intellectual and cultural peak.
Theatre had come a long way from Lebedeff‘s

“Kalpanik Sangbadal” (1795). But,

thematically, it had remained largely
nonvcontroversial and entertainmental.

“Fatikjal” by Amarendranath Datta ( 1902)
was a typical example.
ii) The first decade brought the century’s first

social shock: the threat of a divided Bengal.
The “Banga Bhanga Andolan” of 1905
inspired the father of the Bengali stage,
Girish Chandra Ghosh’s “Sirajuddaullah”
( 1906).
This was the birth of the Bengali “committed"
stage in this century. The play was promptly
banned by the British Government.
The “entertainment” theatre presented us the
genius of Dwijendralal Roy :
“Shahjahan” by Dwijendralal Roy ( 1909)

presented a spectacularly successful
blending of Indian and Western music on
the Indian stage.
iii) The second decade saw two major social

events :
a) the capital of India was shifted from
Calcutta to Delhi in 1911,

b) World War 1 came and went ( 191 1’1919).
Bengali theatre, however, did not respond to
any of these social upheavals. The
“entertainment” stage, on the other hand,

progressed undisturbed with landmark
productions :
a) “Pardeshi” by Panchkori Chattopadhyay
( 1918) featured vocal acrobatics on stage

s

for the first time.

‘ \,

b) “Hindu Beer” by
Surendranath
Bandyopadhyay
(1920) was a

gentle satire

on the brave ' ’
Bengali.

ll

५

भी

