By a not so strange coincidence, the
“committed” stage of Bangladesh responded
to their new found freedom with “Sat
Manusher Khonjay" by Ali Zakher ( 1975),
an adaptation of the same German play.
During this decade the “entertainment” stage

of Calcutta presented the landmark
production “Narak Gulzar” by Manoj Mitra
( l976).
x) The ninth decade did not see any major social
or political turmoil reﬂected on the Bengali
stage. On the “entertainment” front, the
decade began with two memorable
productions, one in each Bangal :

viii) The seventh decade of the 605 saw the
“committed” stage move forward to political
theatre : Kallol by Utpal Datta (1965) was

based on the Bombay naval mutiny of 1946.
The production led to Utpal Datta’s
imprisonment by the Indian Government.
On the “entertainment" ५ stage, a great new

production was presented : “Antony Kabial”
by Bidhayak Bhattacharya ( 1966) which not
only gave a new dimension to stage songs but
gained a level of popularity which remains
undiminished even today.

ix)The eighth decade began with the birth of
Bangladesh. A whole new school of Bengali
literature and theatre came alive after decades
of suppression.
In West Bengal, the “committed” stage by
then, had begun to get involved in social

a) “Nagini Kanyar Kahini” of Tarashankar
Bandopadhyay (novelist) was staged by
the great playwright Badal Sarcar ( 1981 ).
Having risen to fame through his classic
stage comedies, Badal Sarkar went on to
champion the cause of the “third theatre”.
b) From the theatre of Bangladesh came
“Kittan Khola” by Salim Al Din ( 1981 ).
Both plays potrayed the common, rural life
of Bengal, indivisible by political barriers.
xi) As we move into 'the tenth decade, we are

confronted with growing unrest in both
Bengals. It is difficult to predict what will
prevail by the end of the century. So far, this
decade has given us, on the “committed” stage
of Bangladesh, “Dasher Manush” by
Abdullah Al Mamun (1990).
The “entertainment” stage of West Bengal
has given us “Darpaney Saratsashi" by
Manoj Mitra (1992), the first play to be
staged simultaneously on both sides of the
Bengali divide.

issues potrayed on “committed" stages in
other countries. An outstanding example was

“Bbalomanush” by Ajitesh Bandopadbyay
(1974), an adaptation of the German play
“The Good Woman of Setzuan” by Bertolt
Brecht.

2)“?‘05 Macaw? .
Devajit Bandyopadhyay

