SAADAT HASAN MANTO
Born 11 May, 1912 Manto was probably the most controversial
and misunderstood writer of all times. Having spent a life of 43
years, mostly among such people like pimps, prostitutes, the

man on the street as well as noted celebrities of his times,
Manto breathed his last on 18 January 1955 in Lahore. Manto
spent his best years in Bombay writing stories and scripts for
films. He used to say — “my stories don't come from my brain,
they jump out of my pocket.” A brief stint of 1 9 months with Al R,
Delhi saw him in close company with men of literature there.
His radio drama Jebkatr'a (the pickpocket) was probably
broadcast from every radio station during that time. After long
belated recognition nearly 50 years after his death SAADAT
HASAN MANTO has by now come into his own , with his short
stories being translated and dramatized in several lndian
languages simultaneously. Rangakarmee in its new project.
proposes to offer viewers a comprehensive view of the rich
humanist creativity that Manto represented. in the form of a
series of three collages. The ﬁrst made out of three stories - Kali
Shalwar, Licence and Hatak - ruthlessly realistic portrayals of
life in the lower depths , with humanity surfacinglasserting in the
strangest expressions more often than not in a mélange of
pathos and triumph; produced in 2004 titled Badnam Manto.
The second collage centers on Manto's better known Partition
stories born out of the pain that Manto carried with him in his

own experience of exile - born in the Indian part of Punjab, he
fell in love with Bombay, but died in Lahore, a broken man in
extreme poverty and ill health caused by heavy
drinking.Stories in this collage called Sarhad Paar Manto
include Khol Do and Toba Tek Singh, inter woven with snippets
from his Siyah Hashye or black fringes. The third collage will
focus on Manto — the man and writer.
In an epitaph written a year before his death he wrote:
Here lies Saadat Hasan Manto. With him lie
Buried all the arts and mysteries of short story writing.
Under tons of earth he lies, wondering
If he is a greater short story writer than God.

