MILLENNIUM . ‘ 2' 1 I New Delhi I Saturday, N0venil)er 7, 201 5

BRATYA BASU is the Minister
of Tourism of \N'est Bengal and is
an eiiicient multi-lasker. He. in a
candid conversation with Maiiink
Runeijee talks about his life. holy
bies. important issues like intolerance. terrorism and his theatre
ventures He also explains how sexuality has come a long wayand discussions on the issue are no more a
myth or taboo.

-. a
your passion for creativity. It will
be good if you can share your
thoughts on this with us.

111३1'11111५111111111४'111 11९111111४ '11' v -

u it h in । he \ ८ 11111! r 1

I am .i proud citi/en oi \N'est

Bengal While I \UIIIIIIIIC will] my
passion unhindered. I continue to
deliver simultaneously to the puhr
lic oi West liengal I am proud that
my state West Bengal 1५ among the
top in the country .1\ tar d‘ I eligious
tolerance is concerned.

Recently, after staging Bama,
you seem to be concentrating on

directing plays in a row, any particular reason for that?
Bonn) is the production of
Kaliiidi Bratyajnn. my own theatre
roup. As you know, apart from
other theatre related activities,
I try to do one production each
year in my group. I am also an avid
reader of books, journals and if I
find some scripts very interesting
I grab the opportunity to direct it.
this is nothing but a coincidence.
Mumlmi Nights is an adaptation
of Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night
where relocation happens in
Mumbai. Don’t you think Kolkata would have beena better place
for it?
Kolkata of course is closer to
my heart but Mumbai is a cosmopolitan and an equally vibrant
city. The issues I have highlighted
are mostly arising out of Mumbai rather Maharashtra — cricket.
glamour world. underworld etc.
and these are important national
issues.

Ill toltraiite ९1111 ७1111: not As .i u

India has come of age in this regard
too. Now, the ﬁght for legalisation
is a step forward towards the acceptance of‘alternate' sexualities. Love
and romance are the eternal truth
ofour lives, irrespective ofour sex—
ual orientations This will remain
ever pertinent in the world till the
existence of mankind.

view of the society and the chal»
lenge lies in the subtlety with which
the issues emerge within the context oftlie narrative. I have to keep
in mind that the issues appear
strongly in the plot keeping the
largermilieu ofhumor and romanticism intact. It is important for
me that the audience carries the
impact of the issues even after the
end of the play.

The relation between gender
and performance is particu- How difficult is it to infuse seri—
larly strong in this play. Don't ous issues like terrorism, ban on
you think our current society has bar dancers, underworld’s inﬂu- In your play Sateror' luly (17th
moved beyond that with move- ence in Bollywood, intolerance, July), you showed dissent against
ments for Iegalising same sex corruption etc. in a romantic state sponsored terrorism at
relationship? How relevant is this comedy and to place it in front Godhra. Now you are directing a
play now, in this respect?
of the audience without compro~ play which speaks loudly against
Shakespeare wrote the play in mising even a bit on the quotient
religious radicalism. Is it a conithe year I 60I . more than 400 years of romanticism?
pIetion of a circle of such proback. lust imagine the time frame
It is really challenging to keep test in the art form in which you
when he wrote it. Sexuality in the the essence of the play intact and belong?
world has come a long way after the scriptwriter, Debasish Ray. has
I do not look forward to the
that, and discussions on the issue done a wonderful job here. 'Ihe
completion of such a circle. As
are no more a myth or a taboo. play represents a kaleidoscopic
far as I am considered this is no
.tc— .-.V..V... V... ८; ५.१न्दि
"P'V'T‘T‘l’j* 3१1८' 1:: 12m- ‘2‘ a» .- ८… त्मा

achievement. It gave me pain to
write and stage a play like Saterai
luly. But it was a necessity. Similarly, many issues are unacceptable in present India where we keep
emphasising ‘development’ and
‘reform’. We deﬁnitely do not want
these religious fanatics spreading
the message ofhatred and intolerance. What sort of values teaches
us to insult writers, artists, activists. just because they speak in different voices? Can we support the
killers of M M Kalburgi or Narendra Dabholkar? Or the assault on
U R Ananthamurthy? Isn‘t there
a need to raise our voice against
the killers of innocent bloggers in
Bangladesh? But even before we
speak about against the extremism
of other religions, we should evaluate the fundamentalism and violence that exists in the religion we
belong to; a secular Hindu should
soul search Hinduism first and a
secular Muslim should do the same
for Islam first before accusing oiliCI'S of religious lanaticisrn. A true
Indian should have the freedom
to strongly protest against religious extremism in India before
he takes on the issue of injustice

Q. You have ended the play in
a very positive overtone. This
shows you are very optimistic
about the improvement of our
bilateral relationship with Pakistan, especially on the religious
and cultural front. Please share
your views regarding this.
l

C

.

in the neighbouring country. जि:
atre is a platform which has always
raised its voice against these furidamentalist forces. I am proud to
be able to continue to be a part of
that brigade.
Q. You, being the Minister of
Tourism of the state are still con~
tinuing with theatre as your passion. It is deﬁnitely a sincere and
hard work on your part. I think
your state administration in West
Bengal has never come your way
while you continued to pursue

in“

dl\\'i\y§

\ICI'Y

PU\III\'C

regarding this and I will continue to
be. You must be aware that ‘Kalindi
ltratyajon‘ organises an Interna। ional theatre festival at Kolkata.
each year for last four years. 'Ihis
year, we had inVited a theatre group
iroin Pakistan who came and per
iormed at the Academy of Fine
v\rts. Kolkata. the cultural hub oi
the city. The team was led by a
renowned theatre director of I’ak
ixtan, Zain Ahmed. from NAPA.
I strongly believe that in present
times of intolerance. as shown 111
this play. the love between Billu
i in disgutse as Huma) and L'shr
ii.it.i and that between Alishan and
I Itinia \vill show us the path to tolr
eiance leading to the ultimate \Un’
sciousness in peaceand .ill I I indu\
and Muslims in and across India
and Pakistan Will all be united .it
the beach oi Arabian Sea I believe
love is the only essence which can
give us respite troni our barhai lc.
beastly and cruel ways oi living.
Only love can instill humanity w1th
grace in our souls. When the love
of Mumbai Nights sparkles in the
skyline of India. the Indian values

Q. 'lhe seed of tolerance should
be sowed from the very childhood
ofa person. So, a lot depends on
the upbringing of a person. I )o
you have any target audience for
this play, if tolerance is one of

the primary messages you want
to convey?
\Vhile love and i oiii.ini Ik ism
come spontaneously 1111111 youth.
so does aggression. impulse and
excitement. 'Ihese tender minds
need to be caressed. they should
be led to the right path of mom
I ii\ so that tlie\ 't\ ill 11.1111६-111 ~
(inguiin l‘k'l\\\'k ii the good and tin

had [ .ll\\.i\ 5 consider llic \ 1111111 .1४
my greater share oi dllkllL‘Itxc’. iiitl
I strongly believe their Ulric-s \\ ill
lead to .i stronger India I ll m e\ c 1
11८11'111हु४111१1111८11.1111111111111८.।11111८1
111०111८11' I\ not ior 1 he elders
Q. What are the other two plays

you are going to direct? How long
do we need to wait for your next
surprises?
One is .\It'glit‘ Dimitri him .I
renowned him by Ritwik tiliatak
and the other I\ Adm \Iit'sli 1111111111
adapted from the novel ot Shin
nial 11८11३1ट्ठा111३ Both are adapted In
Iliiiyal (Italic-rice .\lt‘glie [VIIIAII
I.ir.i \\'Ill be produwd b} .\'.nh.iti
I‘I rtii y at o n

[he produtcr oi \Iaihat i Iir.it\
.iion. I’aitha b‘liouinik li.is1.iken .i

you to stage all the licngali ५ 1.1७।
cal movies one .iiler anoihci lhe
iirst show oi Nicolle I tlitikti 1.1111
“'1” be staged at l'nneisili IttsI i
lute Hall, Ix'olkata on lanuaiy 3.
2( t I o

.…1111'11.५111)11 RilltIlIIINIJt‘IIIgPIU
duwd by 'liidhthingd' and the lil’\I
show will he at Academy of Fine
arts. kolkata on I i laiiiiaii 2111 0

ग्ना "'स्थानं"- न्मनुच्चास्कश्च 1' है है चf» F's“ ‘

Vt“ 161‘ Him"

