KSHITIJ theatre group was established
in 1987 by few graduates of National
School of Drama with the aim of
promoting theatre by producing quality
plays and organizing theatre. workshops in
remote areas of the country.
Since then it had engaged several NSD
graduates like Bharti Shanna, Bipin
Kuinar, Mukul Nag, fwek Mishra, Vijay
Kumar and Jaspal Singh to direct a string
of plays which include Karmabh um 2',
Ablzigyan Shakuntt'llam, Puhunch Waltz
Aatlami, Hamlet, I’agla Ghoda, (,‘Iiult'ra.
lbyoti, JIrityunjay, Begunahaun Ku
Gunah, (‘hhoti 81' K7) us]? 1' and Kusba,

Jungle Aur Saba!) Ki Point. All these plays
were highly appreciated by audience and

St'BARNi
XTA. the play is the
adaptation of the well-known novel of the
same name. second of the ward-winning
trilogy written by Ashapurna Debi. The
trilogy depicts the lives of three
generations of women in the early 20th
Century Bengal.
Subarnalata is the story of a woman who
was married off at the age of nine. She is
caught in the web of an orthodox system
that denies selt’-e.\q)1'essi<)n. stitles
questions and prohibits any interaction
with the outside \\'()l'l( . She spends her life
protesting against indignity and injustice.

\VHEN I had read the novel Subarnalata १
what moved me most was her big
struggles for small things. She had to
fight even for small, basic things which
most of us take for granted. She fought
and failed; every time. She became larger
in stature for her sheer persistence; for
her indomitable spirit. While she
appeared to be fighting for herself, she
was actually fighting for us. And we still
continue to fight small battles. Different
_ ones - but small, nevertheless. The
question that rises again and again is
this; when will things really change ईं

What was also fascinating about the novel
was its large canvas- its complex
interweaving of social and political reality
with the struggle of this woman called
Subarnalata - who lived at the time of
nationalist upheaval. This however made
both the dramatization and its production
a formidable task. This was a challenge
that made the process exploratory and
exciting.
We have attempted to tell tu‘ubarnalata's
story. without being judgmental on those
who caused her suffering, as almost

drama critics.

Four of its productions Brit/(11%!" Mcz'n
[’gtey Kinslmlt', Suryamukh, Palmnch
W110 Aadumz', ('hlwti Si Khushi and
Kasba Jungle Aur Sahab Ki Patni, had
been adjudged as best plays by Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi.
Apart from these productions it has also
been organizing theatre workshops every
year in different remote, areas like
Lohardaga, Bihar (1994), Pauri Garhwal,
UP. (1996), Aln‘iora, UP. (1995& 97)
and (/‘liandrapura, Bihar ( 1999 ), in
collaboration with the Department of
Culture. Govt. of India.

She. has obviously inherited the seeds of
this rebellion from her mother, who leaves
her home forever when she learns that her
daughter has been secretly married off
against her wishes at that young age.
Subarnalata wages a lonely battle against
a well-established male dominated system,
only to be isolated from everyone. Even
her children, 011 whom she had great
hopes, can not comprehend her angst.
The narrative gets added sharpness in the
backdrop of the nationalist and reform
movements, active in Bengal during that
। )(‘l'lt )( l .

everyone in the story is a victim of his/her
conditioning and circumstances. And it
has been extremely enjoyable exploring
the various dimensions of the
relationships along with the actors in the
team.

l would also like to caution that while we
did extensive research on early 20th
( ‘entury Bengal which is the. period of the
story, we had to take several liberties for
reasons of thtaitricalit‘y.
रि

