MY M Y SO RE
A two-hundred mile stretch of sea coast, where
ﬁshermen swim and sail. Rivers where little boats
ply. Lovely lagoons, where folks sing and work.

patronage.

Hampi blossomed into a city of citadels

and temples Pampapathi, Hajara Rama, Vittalaswami .

Stark mountain range. Dense forests abounding
in teak and ebony, cedar and bamboo, and the
aromatic sandalwood. The deer, the bison, the
tiger, the leopard, the panther, and the elephant.

From the heights of glory, Vijayanagara jumped
into the abyss on 23 January, 1565 at Rakkasa
Tangadgi. “The city is not altogether destroyed,”
wrote Ceaser Frederick, not long after the
fateful battle, “yet the houses stand still {but

It is regularly cultivated,

empty, and there is dwelling in them but nothing,

“The land is fertile.

and produces large crops. The climate is hot, the
disposition of the people quick and ardent. They
love learning, and esteem virtue and talent,” said
Hieun Tsang on a visit to this region one thousand

as is reported, but tigers and other wild beasts.”

and three hundred years ago at the time of the

Bhakti that enveloped the whole of Karnataka.

Chalukya king, Pulakesin II.

A few kilometres from the mandap where Purandaradasa wove song after song in praise of God, you

The land is still green. Plantations of coffee,
cardamom, pepper and arecanut. Fields of rice
Lush bananas,
encircled by coconut groves.
of plateau
stretches
Vast
pineapples.
mangoes, and

crisscrossed by ridges and hillocks.

Madhwacharya.
Purandaradasa.

Basaveshwara.

Kanakadasa.

And

Ramanuja.
the wave

now see a giant, the Tungabhadra dam.
hundred square km reservoir.

of

A four

Breathing new life

to industry and agriculture. On the western hills
where Sharavati plunges two hundred and sixty

Nripatunga Amoghavarsha and the tenth century

metres down at the enchanting Jog Falls, one of the
world’s largest power projects has gone into action,

His was the ﬁrst treatise in

lighting myriad homes in Mysore and neighbouring

revivalism in learning.

Kannada on the art of poetry—the Kavimjamarga.

Hoysalas of Halebid of the twelfth centrury.
Shantala, the dancer queen. jakkana, the sculptorarchitect. And the lovely bracket ﬁgures of Belur.

Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Goa, Kerala. This
is Mysore’s contribution to national economic
integration.
The contours show signs of rapid industrializa-

tion.
And then the sons of Sangama. The never-to—
It was a
be-forgotten empire of Vijayanagara.

citadel against the northern marauders. From 1336
to 1565, the kings of Vijayanagara, despite ﬂuctuating fortunes, held the Hindu banner high. People
lived in peace under a sound administration. Trade
Arts and literature received royal
ﬂourished.

More factories means more jobs.

On the

farm front, you see a really serious attempt to achieve
an early agricultural breakthrough. More schools

and colleges.

More hospitals and even more F. P.

centres !
And so, on to a happier and healthier tomorrow.
Yes, that’s my Mysore.
—P. S. K. PRABHU

