YAKSHAGANA
The shrill beating of the chende drum could be
heard

as far as two miles away in a not-so-cold

night.

In the green malnad countryside and along

the coastal belt of lWysore, people stream into the

age-old art form continues to be highly popular
among the masses in the countryside.

Yakshagana is perhaps an offshoot of the move-

arena in thousands.

The Bhagavataru sings to the
accompaniment of maddale in ecstatic tones. Epic

ment which put an end to the monopoly of the
Sanskrit drama and started an era of mass culture in

heroes in massive, colourful costumes pour into the
stage in rhythmic steps, sometimes soft and elegant,
and at other times fast and virulent. They argue

the form of popular kirtans and plays based on the

and ﬁght, sing and cry, jump and twirl, coo and
baHyhoo.
For over four hundred years or more the people

folk tradition. This must have taken place during
the declining years of the Vijayanagara empire.
The earliest Yakshagana writers are said to be

living in the sixteenth century. A seventeenth
century composer said he was writing Yakshagana
so that “all may understand.”

of Mysore have nurtured Yakshagana and developed
The play starts at about eight in the evening and
it into a highly sophisticated dance drama. Until
the turn of the nineteenth century, the general
education in the areas now known as South
Kanara, North Kanara, Shimoga and Hassan

districts centered around the Yakshagana tradition.
The ‘single-teacher schools’ (aygala mat/2a) specialised in disseminating stories and interpreting the
values contained in Yakshagana prasangas (poetical
compositions for Yakshagana plays).
The best
writers of the day wrote prasangas for the beneﬁt

goes on till the early hours of the morning. It
opens with obeisance to Vinayaka. A ‘crown,’
tinkle bells, beetle leaves, and plantains are offered
to the diety. The clown (Hanumanayaka) performs

arati puja. The clown’s companions known as
Kodangis then enter the stage along with the Bhagavataru who salutes the audience with the words,
‘Sab/za Sarvani Vandanam.’
After a few more

rites the Bhagavataru sings songs explaining the roles
of the actors, audience, singer and the stage.

of troupes performing this art.
The clown is a multi-faceted person; he plays the
The troupes were generally supported by temples
whose names they carried on thier banners. The
roving performers found patronage in the rich
zamindars and merchants wherever they went. But
since a decade or so this system has given way to
‘ticket performances’. The oil lamps which used

envoy, the messenger, the gardener, the minister
and the brahmin. The Bhagavataru is reckoned as
the prime actor. Next in order of precedence is
the hero-Arjuna, Karna, Bhishma or any other
character-followed by the punts/la yes/m, rakkasa vex/la

(demon), and so on.
to give a hoary glitter to the multicolour costumes
and headgears have been replaced by electric footlights. Modernisation in stagecraft necessiated some
minor adjustments, which in turn, gave rise to
certain minor anachronisms. Nevertheless, despite
fears that modernisation, modern drama and cinema

might drive Yakshagana out of existence, this

The hero enters the stage with all paraphernalia, his deputies, allies and others. The entrance

is systematic; the audience ﬁrst gets a look at his
proﬁle from the back and then from the side,
and ﬁnally the front View. The actors dance
individually and in groups, some times hand in

