0

SOUTH

KANARA!
ports along the west

South what हैं' South K-A—N-A-R-A.

coast

and far away Persian

Gulf.
Walk the Malpe beach of a September evening.
The bouncing waves play touch-and-go. The sky is
studded with magenta clouds, perforated at intervals with bright golden rays. Turn back to the
greenery around. Miles and miles of coconut trees.

Village, on an average, can boast of a post ofﬁce.
One out of every 68 persons owns a radio set. One

“I have not seen a more beautiful country than

telephone for every 340 people.

this,” said Buchanan, one hundred and seventy years
ago. It is enthralling.
Udipi of January. Hare Krishna .’ Temple streets
in colour.

In towns big and small and in half of its 668
villages, electricity lights homes and bazaars. Every

Whizzing buses crisscross the black-topped roads.
Motor cars. Lorries. Bullock carts. People walk
briskly. Voices at bus stops 2 Soda boda Soda. Beeda
yaarige, Beeda.

People gay and gorgeous. Hare Kris/ma .’

New centres of learning have sprung up at

hIore people gay and gorgeous.
A cup of hot coffee.

And a luscious masala dosa

Manipal, Suratkal, and elsewhere. Three out of
every ten persons can read and write. There is one

with it.
primary school for every 4,200 people; one upper
Enjoy sunset at the foot of fortytwo feet monoli-

primary school for every 1,500 people; one high

thic Gomata at Karkala. Erected February 13, 1432.
Suddenly you think of the ten thousand people

school for every 11,000 people; and one college for

every 70,000 people.

pulling and pushing the colossus up the hill.

Flower-ﬁsh, yes.
A night of Takshagana dance drama in the countryside.

Or a devil dance, Kola.

A buffalo race on

The kind of large and fat ﬁsh

Tippu Sultan reserved
mackerel.

Pomfret.

for his own use.

Prawn.

Lush

Shell-ﬁsh.

a ﬁeld day, if you are lucky.

Turn to the people.
them.

Nearly nineteen lakhs of

Speaking Tulu, Kannada, Konkani, Hindus-

tani. Fishermen of the sandy beaches. Obele girls in
the paddy ﬁelds. Toddy tappers. Farmers.
Merchants. Peddlers. Eight out of every ten people
live in the villages.

Two out of every ten are culti-

vators. Nine out of every hundred people work in
plantations. Five out of every hundred are engaged
in manufacturing. Four out of every hundred are
tra d ers .

Rains of July.

More rains, and floods.

Over-

ﬂowing backwaters and rivulets.
Watch the breath-taking view of the sprawling
landscape from the height of the spiral pathway

between Someshwar and Agumbe. The expansive
plain down below dissolves into a vast sheet of water
which is the Arabian Sea, 30 miles away.
lVIangalore and its builder full of traders.
Country boats loaded with merchandise, asail to

It is a district which fathered a few major banks
of the country : the Canara, the Syndicate, the
Vij ay a, the Karnatak, the
Corportion.
One
banking unit serve every 14,000 people. One agricultural credit society covers every 4,000 people in

the rural areas. Every 100 persons have 72ch ickens.
One buﬁ'alo for every 86 persons.
The population has increased by only 12% in
the last: nine years, while it has nearly doubled in
the last 70 years. There is one hospital for every
8,500 people; one primary health centre for every
88,000 people, and one family planning clinic for
every 93,000 people.
Iddli. Sambar, Vade. Biskut Ambode. Chutney.

Koli Rotti. Chicken Biryani.
gourmet’s delight ?

How’s that for the

Green, glorious nature. Rock country. Dancing
waves. Temples and statues of history. Ebullient
laughter of a people on the move. How’s that for
sheer pleasure ?

B. K. HEGDE

