THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS OF
SOUTH KANARA IN THE 19TH CENTURY
The Nineteenth century was a period of resettlement and afﬁrmation for the people of the South
Kanara District. The old administration of Mysore
under Tippu Sultan was wiped out and the new one
under the British (the Company rule) came to be
instituted. In fact, the period ranging between the
fall of the Nayakas of Ikkeri (Keladi) and of the

Mysore Sultans was one of great confusion and social
and economic disorder. Property was unsafe and
certainty of possession was a matter of seizure.
Revenue Resettlement :

In 1819, the British introduced a new system
which endured for the whole century.
It was

known as the ‘Tharao’ settlement of 1819. The
original basis of this was a one-sixth share of the
gross produce of a roughly estimated area of cultivation, the measure of extent which was known as

szavarz' being that which could be sown by a given
quantity of seeds and the proportion of produce to
seed, 12:1 as given in the sastras. Besides, the onesixth of a further share was taken for Brahmins and
the gods and additions were made to the assessment
and extra cesses added from time to time in accordance, with the necessities”. The t/zarao rates were
divided into Marti and kambharti, the latter subdivided into vayz'de, Board sip/lam: and tam'kz'.
There were two kinds of possessions (landed
properties) one was muli warg and the other geni.
The muli warg entitled, the possessors with total
proprietory rights over the property. The geni
system was of two kinds— muli geni which entitled
the cultivator to possess the land permanently subject
to the payment of rent as stipulated in the contract;
while c/zala geni entitled the cultivator to cultivate
and pay the rent subject to increase from time to
time. The possessor of the warg was known as
kudtaledar. At the time of the assumption ofadminis-

tration by the British in 1801, all the property
description was said to be in the durmat/zz' c/zz'tta from

the name of the year 1801. It was prepared by the
Village ofﬁcers for each warg containing the information in respect of bijavari assessment due on and
rent produce Izutz/ali. Unfortunately these entries
were grossly inaccurate. The tharao system introduced by the British was based on the saramrz' c/zz'tta.
The assessment on wargs was based on the nature
of the land which was fourfold in character—bayalu,
majalu, bettu and bagayatu and their assessment rates
were 624:2: 12 in the case of the ﬁrst class lands and
4:3: 1 :8 in the case of the second class lands
respectively.

Lands used to be mortgaged which could be
permanent mortgage and terminal mortgage for a
particular period.

Midway between the mulgeni and chalgeni there
was vayide-geni or lease system for a speciﬁed period.

Waste lands and kumaki lands would be enjoyed
according to a particular tradition.

Agricultural and Trading Conditions :
South Kanara has been essentially an agricultural
District with 75% ofthe population depending for
their livelihood on cultivation Brahmins, Bunts,

jains and Christians were the Chief landowners.
Amongst these, the bunts were par excellent in
cultivation. Havig Brahmins were good at raising
arecanut plantations. Invariably the tenants with
their tenaments would live near the land and attend
to agriculture. On the whole, 40 acres of land

would be considered as a fairly large land holding
and ﬁve acres a small one. “Tenures and natural
circumstances being alike favourable and the
agricultural classes being generally industrious,
a large
number ofthe ryots were in easy and
prosperous
circumstamces and comfort probably
more widely
diffused than in most other parts of
south India”

