known as castes each of which had its own social
and religions customs and manners.

Although the

caste rigours Were beginning to break. Still they

laid prescriptions and codes of behaviour.

Agricultural festivals such as kambalas (Buffalo
race) and cook-ﬁghts were also organised from time
to time. Three meals a day (i.e. congy, mid-day
end night meals were normal water with jaggery,

butter—milk, ragi soup jaggery
Brahmins :

and milk

were

The most important of them were
the

Shivalli, Kota, Koteshvara, Kandavara and Sthanika
Brahmins. The other Brahmins who may be said
to be later irnmigrents in the District were the gauda
Sarasvata, Sarasvata, Deshastha, Karadi, Chitpavan

and Sakalapuri Brahmins.
Other communities; Bunts (Nadavas) Mogeras
(Fishermen) Billavas Devadigas,
Moyilis and
Sappaligas : Akkasaligas, Washermen, weavers,

drinks.

Coconuts

were

offered to

guests.

Kaa’ubu, dosaz', paramanna and paucha-Kajjaya were
the usual specie] items koli-rotti was very much
enjoyed by the non-vegetarians.
South Kanara ‘has had two peculiar types of
Ingd dance, called nagamana’ala and dakke bali.
They are still in vogue. There were as many as
a dozen yakshagana troupes artistically entertaining
and educating people.

gudigaras,barbers, Koteserigaras Bakudas, Koragas,
Nalkes. Pambadas, Kudubis, Paravas and a number
of other sects and subsects.

The jains formed an inﬂuential class although

numerically dwindling.

The Mohammadans and

Christains also were occupying position of consider-

able importance, the former as traders and the
latter as prosperous agriculturists and gardeners.

An important place of devil-worship was known
as alaa’e or Brahman/land. Garadis where Kati and
Punja two deiﬂied heroes are still worshipped,
were numerous. Brahmans would offer their usual
Vedic prayers and homage to temples while the
non-Brahmins would propitiate their daivas. The
Nalkes, the Paravas and the Pambadas used to
impersonate the dairas at the time of devil-dance.

Marriage was strictly conﬁned to caste limits
and inter-caste marriages were taboo. But social
relationship was free from air-tight compartment.
There was a surprisingly great deal of harmoney and

The Christians and MuSIims were permanently
settled and their relationship with the rest ofthe

cooparation amongst these groups.
The Brahmins and the Jainas had their different

gotms And almost all the rest had these balis each
balz' representing a lineage.

There were as many as 150 jaina temples known
as bastis were the jainas offered their prayers.

One of the most

conspicuous social systems of South Kanara was
the alzyasantana system of inheritance (the matriarchal—systam) .
The non-Brahminical Hindu

larger community was very often cordial.

Conver-

sion into Charistiarity and Islam would take place
without coersion. Mutual respect for the religious
practices amongst almost all religionists as matter
of appreciation. Introduction of a general system
of public instruction slowly resulted in the depar-

section of the society with a few exceptions followed

ture from traditional

the aliyasantana system. There were fourteen katlus
and sixteen katlales, connected with those who

tions.

observed the system.

mins and Jainas; Bants and Nadavas and Mogeras

In matters of religion the entire Hindu Community no doubt paid homage to the Puranic gods,
but the vast majarity had very great faith in the
mysterious force of devils known as daivas. These

and Billavas.

daivas ware numerous and they virtually bewitched

language of ths elite.
Tulu was conﬁned to teh
territory to the South of the Kallianpur river.
To the North of this river, Kannada was most
predominant, Christians Saraswatas and Gauda-

the faith of the common folk.

They were invoked

chieﬂy through annual celebrations known as Kola:
or mamas or ajanas

(Devil-dance)

Temples had

vocations and caste conven-

Three main strata of communities were : Brah-

The last two sections were numeri-

cally predominent.
Three languages were in vogue-Tulu, Kannada

and Konkani and Sanskrit and English were the

their own annual festivals conducted in all jubila-

Saraswatas spoke mainly.

tion .

were sparingly used.

Marathi and Hindustani

Dr. P. GURURAJA BHAT

