SOUTH KANARA AS I HAVE SEEN
l\4y association with South Kanara, in a way,
started from my college days in Mysore city. I had
just then read his two great novels ‘Marali Mannige’
and ‘Bettadajeeva’. Their impact on my mind was
very great. It was further animated when I met
Dr. Karanth and listened to him from close quarters in the company of Prof. V. Seetharamaiah.
Dr. Karanth was serene even in those early forties

and he spoke very little.

But when he spoke he

meant every word of what he spoke.

And, to ﬁnd

the two literary giants in intimate conversation was
an experience which is still so fresh in my mind.

With this initiation to knowing South Kanara I
was looking forward to the earliest opportunity of
visiting the district and developing my contacts. It
was in 1945, coming out of the College, Thanks to
the sincer interest in me taken by my friend kulkund

Shiva Rao(Niranjana) another literary ﬁgure hailing
from some Kanara. I took over the responsibility
of editing Prajamata, the largest circulated weekly
of those days. The bulk of the circulation was in
South Kanara and most of the subscribers in Bombay

of mine brought me in close personal contact with a

host of friends.

up under the guidance of Dr. T.M.A. Pai in whom
I saw a great visitionary and a man of original
thinking. And since then I have often visited South

Kanara on some pretext or the other and, due to
my intimacy of the land and the people, I have

been mistaken for a man coming from this coastal
part.

As a journalist I have had the opportunity of
visiting every nook and corner of the State and
these travels have helped me in developing a per-

sonality which I believe is cosmopolitan.

to-day.

Perhaps

it is these travels and coming in contact with
different people that gave me the education I needed

though I am proud of the fact that I graduated
from the Maharaja’s College, my almmater. My
journalistic adventures coming to a close in 1958,

one phase of my life also came to a close.

But the

memory of this period hangs on and I am still considered by many to be belonging to that tribe.

were Kannadigas hailing from that district. In fact
the bulk of circulation of any good Kannada journal
was concentrated in South Kanara district and
Bombay. Perhaps the same pattern continues even

An it was then that I had the

opportunity of seeing the Manipal complex coming

Beautiful Kanara Coast
Mysore is normally divided into three distinct
regions and, of these, . the most beautiful region is

the Chat or the Malnad region which in turn slopes

That only speaks of the literary level of
down into the coastal Mysore climaxing the superb

this coastal area in Mysore.
In Good Company
Academically I was not a student of Kannada.
But my close association with Kannada literary
activities even as a student in Maharaja’s College
had aroused in me an urge to peep into Kannada
literary works in my own humble way. Muddana
and Panje Mangesh Rao were familiar names.
Added to this I was in the good company of such
great giants of Kannada literature like Prof. V. See.
and late Prof. T.N. Sreekantaiah apart from quite a
few others like Prof. G. Venkatasubbiah.
As editor of the Chitragupta, Kannada \Neekly,
I ﬁrst visited Mangalore and Udipi in the early
ﬁfties to be present at the Paryaya. The Maharaja
of Mysore, Shri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar was to
preside over the ﬁrst Madhva Sammelana which
had been blessed by the Pejavar Swamiji. This visit

scenic beauty. Mysore’s coastal belt of 170 miles is
considered to be one of the most beautiful coastal
stretches in India. The continuation of sea, its
beaches, abundent vegetation on the fringe and the
beautiful mountain ranges with peaks averaging
from 2,000 to 3,000 feet above sea-level, all these
produce an extraordinary scenic excellence that
could hardly be found anywhere in the country. It
is fantastic. The Kanara coast is extremely rich in
Starting northwards from
ﬁsheries and corals.

Mangalore along the coast the sandy beach stretches
in a straight unbroken line nearly 50 miles. Conspicious in

this stretch is

the beach temple of

Suratkal and a cluster of islets, a few miles beyond
what are known as Moolky rocks. The light house
at Kapu sends out light from an elevation of 140 ft.
The l\Ialpe is a beautiful little harbour. Foreigners
who have visited have given thrilling accounts of

