the scenic beauty of this stretch.

Barkuru, the

sensitive by nature but at the same time very friend-

The

ly these people have a distinctive characteristic
of their own. Their achievement in the ﬁelds of

ancient Tuluva capital, is somewhere nearby.

South Kanara District as such is the cradle of Tuluva

banking, education and buinsess is something which

culture. Konkanis and Christians who came in
later have only enriched this culture and have made

is all in their blood.

it cosmopolitan.

the Canara Bank, and,of late, Vijaya Bank, could
think of establishing branches all over the country

Great Names
The South Kanara District has fascinated me
from the point of View of its rich cultural heritage.
It was here that Madhavacharya propagated his
Dwaita Philosophy and it is again in this District
that we have the pilgrimage centres of Karkala and
Dharmastala. To feel at home with this land and
its people one should read Dr. Karanth’s novels. In
spite of the high literary tastes of people, it is,
however, a paradox that we do not have many
popular ﬁction writers from this region. Scholars
and research workers abound.
Some names come to my mind prominently as I

brood over the great names associated with South
Kanara. The patriot and servant of the people who
sacriﬁced his all to bring his people into the mainstream of the nation’s struggle for liberation, Shri
Karnad Sadashiva Rao, has no parallel in the whole
of South. And that great scholar, poet and research
worker, Shri M. Govinda Pai was a phenomenon,

so single and so human.

I still recollect the good

days I spent with him and it was a unique privilege.

Separated from the ghats this coastal stretch
retains still its identity as a Tuluva land soaked
The Astha Mathas
in religion and philosophy.

of Udipi are still thriving as centres of learning
and some Mathadhipathis are using their resources
for the cause of education, both ancient and
The Christian missioneries are quite
modern.
maintaining high standards of educaare
active and

tion in their numerous

institutions of modern

education.

The annual Serva Dharma Sammelana being
held in Dharmastala, instituted by another great
soul, Shri Manjayya Heggade, is an institution by
itself.
great

The present Heggade has taken up another
work

of installing a

monolithic statue

of

Gomateswara comparable and to the great Gomateswara of Sravanabelagola.

Spirit of Adventure
their

creative abilities.

and ﬂourishing at the same time. Even a Village like
Chatera, 20 miles from New Delhi, has a Syndicate

Bank branch.
This spirit of adventure in them is something
which their brothren from other parts of Karnataka
have yet to emulate and beneﬁt from. The First
World War threw a large number of enterprising
They went out
people out of South Kanara.

either as hoteliers or business

Highly

The

exe c uti ve s .

Mavalli Tifﬁn Rooms in Bangalore is even to-day
a model of a restaurant known for its hygienic
conditions and formula-based menu taste. The late

Yagnappa who founded this restaurant was known
for his qualities of an ideal employer too. The Udipi
restaurants are a byword for their good dishes.

The South Kanara population in Bombay

Iity is

concentrated in many business concerns. With
their activites and cultural progammes they have

shown up themselves prominently in the social life
of Bombay.
This enterprising community is
hospitable and always ready to contribute liberaly
for a cause. Their interests and talents are varied.
I take this opportunity to place on record my personal gratitude to a large number of friends who
came to my aid when I had been caught in the
wilderness of my journalist adventures in the late
ﬁfties. I will remember the young and enthusiastic

band of friends who used to surround me in the
premises of Sadhana Tailors, so considerate

human.

and

Hailing from Mysore City, educated and

brought up there, I belong to old Mysore. But by
way of adoption, if I may say so, perhaps I belong
to South Kanara. I have always felt so homely
there in the company of friends. I am proud of
my close association with this beautiful part of
Karnataka. Perhaps I have more friends in South

Kanara than in any other district of lVIysore. This
speaks of my close association with the South
Kalriara Club, New Delhi, as well.

But what has interested me most is the people
of the land and

Only the Syndicate Bank and

I wish them

we .
— M. S. BHARADWAJ

