Witness for the Prosecution
It was a life-time which began over a hundred years ago and in which Agatha
Christie's inventive lethal fancy brought murder to the Vicarage and the Orient
Express, to snowed-up country houses and Nile river-boa ts . She turned libraries
into rnortuaries, adding a final vowel and secular twist to the words Corpus
Christie.
A big public-relation exercise is dedicating 1990 to celebrating the birth
centenary of the woman, who many reckoned has outsold the Bible. The shroud
of mystery that surrounded Christie during her life-time and after her death, has
finally lifted. As part of the celebration, David Surchet as Hercule Poirot steppedoff the Orient Express at Devon to be met by Joan Hiclison as lane Marple, to the
express delight of the milling crowds. As the world celebrates her centenary — it
is as a tribute to hundred years of Dame Agatha that Stagedoor presents her mostcelebrated play 'Witness for the Prosecution ' . "It was one of my plays that I
liked best myself," she wrote in her autobiography. The British Council will also
organise an exhibition on the life and works of Agatha Christie at Kamani
Auditorium during the shows.
Born Agatha Mary Clarissa Miller in Devon - England, Agatha was forbidden by
her mother to read till she was eight, for fear that it would damage her brain and
eyes. It is ironical that she went on to become the undisputed queen of crime
novels. Known for having just that extra dash of arsenic, Christie's books —
delightfully devious and ingenuously plotted — have held universal appeal.
Hercule Poirot, the little Belgian detective with the egg-shaped head, became the
most popular sleuth since Sherlock Holmes. She modelled Miss Marple on her old
grand-mother, who, she said, always believed the worst of people, and more
often than not, turned out to be terrifyineg correct.
The reclusive writer hated publicity of any sort and the aura of mystery around
her increased when she suddenly disappeared one day only to re-appear couple
of days later.
’ Witness for the prosecution’ is a court-room drama that revolves around a young man,
Leonard Vole, accused of killing an elderly spinster. Although circumstantial evidence is
damning, Sir Wilfred is convinced that Vole is innocent, and is determined to prove it.
Betrayed by a treacherous wife and condemned by a hostile house-keeper, leonard's only
hope is a sympathetic hearing. Is it curtains for Leonard Vole — in her true in irn itable
style, Agatha Christie carries-off the play with nail-biting suspense.
To quote Ira Levin, "No where is Agatha Christie's remarkable ingenuity more
evident than in her adaptation of "Witness for the Prosecution' The short
story of the same title is seemingly perfect and complete with a stunning final
revelation that lifts the reader in his chair. Yet, for the stage version, Dame

Agatha devised still another revelation, beyond that one, an entirely plausible
surprise that makes for an electrifying curtain.

