About the Novel

5) ix Ac re 5 a n d .3 Th i rd
SixA cres and a Third (Oriya: Chhe Maan A at}? szlh), is a l 9”'century Indian novel published
in an English language translation by the University of California press. Written long before
the October revolution in Russia. the book is the ﬁrst Indian novel to deal with the exploitation
of landless peasants by a feudal Lord in India. It is set in colonial Indian society during the early
decades of the 19th century and tells a tale of wealth and greed, of property and theft. On one
level it is the story ofan evil landlord. Ramachandra Mangaraj. who exploits poor peasants and
uses the new legal system to appropriate the property of others. But this is merely one of the

themes of the novel; as the text unfolds, it reveals several layers of meaning and implication.
Toward the end of Mangaraj's story. he is punished by the law and we hear how the "Judge
Sahib" ordered that his landed estate. his "zamindari," be taken away. Fakir Mohan Senapati's
novel is written from the perspective ofthe ordinary villagers and peasants the foot-soldier - in
other words, the labouring poor ofthe world. Although it contains a critique of British colonial
rule, the novel offers a powerful indictment of many other forms of social and political
authority as well. What makes Six Acres unusual is that its critical vision is embodied in its
narrative style or mode. in the complex way the novel is narrated and organized as a literary
text. Senapati's novel (the Oriya original was serialized in 1897—1899 and published as a book
in 1902) is justly seen as representing the apex of the tradition of literary realism in 19th
century Indian literature. But its realism is complex and sophisticated. not simply mimetic; the
novel seeks to analyze and explain social reality instead ofmerely holding up a mirror to it.

The linguistic innovations of this novel. which happens to be Senapati's first. need to be
appreciated in this wider context. These innovations changed Oriya literature forever. and
inaugurated the age of modem Oriya prose. but are based in a vision of social equality and
cultural self-determination. Senapati was no romantic nationalist. and his conception of
language was based on his progressive social vision. In his prose works. he sought to
popularize an egalitarian literary medium that was sensitive enough to draw on the rich idioms
of ordinary Oriyas. the language of the paddy fields and the village markets. If he saw the
imposition ofother languages like Persian. English. or Bengali on Oriyas as a form oflinguistic
colonialism. it is because he considered the interests ol‘Oriyas ---- much like the interests ofany
1 111gt11st1c community क्वे to be t i ed to d e m oc ra t i e cultural and s o e i a । ace es s to power.

