THIS EVENING’S BALLET
UUAYASTA in Udissi and Mayurbhanj Chhau styles
The presentation begins with darkness. in this vast and immense, darkness slowly
there is an awakening सां a super conscious ray the magniﬁcient Dawn.
She grows
harmoniously, inspiring . m. all directions.

She becomes the conﬂuence of all the

rays animated by her. Graduariy, the seven colours of the rainbow emerge from these
rays
The brilliance of the Dawn is strengthened by the presence of the sun

male counterpart and the chief agent to ﬁll tt-e space with light.

He ५ is her

The radiant pair ride

on the chariot of light drawn by the powerful and ail pervasive horses of lustrous splendour. The chariot moves towards the Space in

which

Dawn and Sun plan to lay the

Solar system. She and the Sun interact and influence each other.
This interaction rem
sults in the creation of planets around the Sun. Finally, our_ mother Earth comes into
existe n ce .
Mother Earth is also endowed with the creative faculty. She creates two principles.
The female symbolised by the Lotus and the male symbolised by the Butterﬂies. These
continue the gradual process of terrestrial creation. In order to bestow depth, breadth
and pervasrveness to to the creative energy, comes Love in the form of ﬂowing rivers.
Their flow permeates the vast expanse of the mother Earth to make soil fertile for
further creation.
The ﬁve Tettves also suppert the creative ﬂow on the Earth.

Earth is now mature enough to meditate for giving birth to human beings. They are
conceived, born and begin to inhabit the planet Earth
They work for the sustenance
of life and for the betterment of their intellect which is a unique gift endowed to Man.
During the process at achieving this development, they begin io exploit Nature.
Nature reacts butEindirectiyEarr d the rress age reaches home. Human beings realise their
mistake and try various means to remedy. the harm they have done to themselves by

misusing Nature. The bountitul Nature is ever so forgiving and her compassion generously pours forth as clouds overcast the sky.
Sun and Dawn are the essence of all auspicious beginning and awakening.
Now
they come to bless the symbolic “dawn” of the intellectual awakening of the human
beings. They make life on Earth blissful. Every aspect of creation in the earthly exis-

tence is now harmoniously blended in a cyclic order as night follows the day and next
" day tollo ' s the night.

This is our own universe with each day—a new gift, a blessing

to us. UDAYASTA is the cycle of life on this Earth.

