GUhU JANME JOY SAE BABU
Born in the 'Mayu'rbha'ni district of' O‘rissa’ 'on

29th october, 1948, ‘ in a'family 'of

traditiOnailfv‘Chhau dancers, Guru danme Joy graduated from Utkal University in the year

1972.

While therkidsot hisage nursed the feeding bottle, he nursed the dance of

Chhauwuinderl then‘gu‘idanced of illustriousffgmity members

and a famous uncle, Guru

Shri‘ Anant Charah चे-पतों Babu, recepient of} the [Slange‘et ‘h‘atak A ( edemy Award 1972.
Janme Joy also trained under famous gurus like Krishna Chandra, Sambhunath Jena,
Shri Hari Naik, Khe’tra Mohan Naik and Shri Kanta Sen etc.

r ‘ a

l x I

Recepient of several awards and horio'lirs" himself, Guruji has researched deeply
towa ds the gradual development of the classical element in Mayurbhani Chh'a'u.
He has composed several traditional items and has also choreographed and composed

several ballets like Rituraj. Kamayani,
Tandav, Nal Darnvanti etc.

Kumar Sambhav, Gautam Buddha, Dandi, Shiva

Besides this impressive repertoire Guruii has also experi-

mented with Odissi and Chhau Akriti items like Ardh Narishwar, Vishwarupa Darshan,

Rang Nupur and Dashavatar, etc
Ushayan, and Udayasta.

His latest compositions include Vasundhara,

Besides many Indian Students, several foreign students,

from Japan, France, Belgium, ‘v’est Indies,

Kampuchea, have beneﬁtted greatly from

G u r u i ठे ’ s able g u i da nc e ,
Guruii came to Delhi in 1972 and joined Bal Bhawan Society under Ministry of
Education project and continued there till 1976.

It is to Guruji’s credit that for the ﬁrst time,

Odissi style.

he introduced Chhau elements in the

Using extensively the base of Natyashastra, Mudras, Padakaran and

Abhinaya, Guruji created a beautiful balance of Tandav and Lasya.

Guruji has chOreographed and worked with famous Odissi Gurus and dancers. He
has choreographed with Guru Kelu'charan Mahapatra in the dance drama Bhakta
Prahlad Charita in 1973, with Guru Mayadhar Raut in Krishna Chaitanya Mansha in
' 1L974=~andr with Sphal Mansing h in Sudama Charitra and Bahubali in 1988.

