Director’s Note
Indian theatre, if it has to regain its lost glory, has to
become more useful. I mean socially more useful. I
believe doing theatre for children is a major aspect ofthis
social role. 'Socho! Jab Sab Ulta Ho ! ' is a children's play.
Unlike an entertainment product, theatre is
participatory and hence process driven. Children's
theatre even more so. 'Socho! Jab Sab Ulta Ho!‘ was
process driven. The rehearsal process in this production
was so immensely creative and such great fun, that I feel
a little guilty to grab the authorship of this play entirely
for myself. The students and other colleagues of mine
have contributed in every aspect of the shaping of this
play. Alongwith me, they wrote songs, improvised
scenes and composed music and dance.

'Socho! Jab Sab Ulta Ho!‘ is a play inspired by a
contemporary classic, Astrid Lindgren's 'Pippi
Longstockings'. This Nobel Prize winning Swedish
authoress is as important as Tolstoy, Kuvernpu and
Tagore. In a dark age such as this, Astrid Lindgren makes
me feel nice about living.
The play begins like a typical Indian narrative. It is a
story told by Maharishi Ved Vyasa and scribed by
Ganesha, the god of good sense. Soon the scribe and the
story teller are drawn into the vortex of the story. Thus
they end up being characters in the play. The celestial

scribe becomes Pippi, an orphan ragpicker and
Maharishi Ved Vyasa gets submerged in garbage, which
is thrown recklessly by contemporary humans. Pippi

disturbs him while the Maharishi is in deep penance, and
gets cursed by him. The angry Maharishi relents to the
desperate plea of Pippi's young friends and tells them
that Pippi can get released from the curse if the world
stops producing industrial garbage.
Thereafter Pippi's animal friends — a donkey and a
monkey, with the help ofa friendly 'spirit' plan a hostage
drama to get Pippi released from the curse. Pippi chides
them and stops the well intentioned but misguided
revolution from taking place. The play ends with a
message of good will for all living beings and for
Mother Earth. Pippi goes back to being Ganesh and
Maharishi Ved Vyasa advises children to spread the
message of living in a way that is in sync with nature.

