“I believe in the immortality of the theatre. It is the
put
blessed hiding corner for all those who have secret/y
with
their childhood into the pockets and have run away

Theatre

it top/(1y until their lives’ end.”
——Man Reinhardt.

and
Three
Arts

Club

It is surprising how in this modern world. which is a
by-product of the past, all entertainment has been provided
Little
by adults and almost standardised for adults.
thought has so far, in India, been given to the role of
But with the indrama in entertainment of children.
creasing emphasis that is being laid in the social and
cultural spheres on the development of a sound and
healthy future generation, the role of drama assumes
great significance. So far the children were accustomed
mainly to listening fairy tales from grand-mothers, but it
is our awful lot that even that institution is fast disappearing in the tide and termoil of city life and ﬁnds its little
traces in those far-off villages which have not yet been
invaded by the modern devices of radio and cinema.
The Three Arts Club has sensed this state of affairs
and has realised that the drama of to-day should cater not
only to children but that the grand-mothers' tales told to
the young ones should be transformed into a semblance of
reality. For the Three Arts Club, this new venture itself
is a break with traditions of drama it has itself established.
From the poignancy of ‘Faisla’ to the realism of ‘Under
Secretary’ or the satire of ‘Dhong', from the reforrnative
mood of ‘Hamara Gaon’ and ‘Roti Aur Beti' to the classical
mood of ‘Aur Bhagwan Dekhta Raha' is a journey that any
amateur club in any part of the world would well be
prcud of, but that pride of performance and yet that
humility of amateur artists would have been incomplete
if attention had not been paid to the innocence of children
and to the very insigniﬁcant things and tales which amuse
their tender and loving hearts.
For an institution and especially a Club devoted to the
art of drama. it is necessary that experience should be

