T H E C H E R RY ORCHARD
S h o rt S u mma ry :

The Cherry Orchard describes in the lives of a group of Russians, in
the wakeof the Liberation of the serfs. The action takes place over the course
of five or six months, but the histories of the characters is so complex that in
many ways, the play begins years earlier.
The play opens in May, inside the cherry orchard estate; friends,
neighbours, and servants are preparing for thelong awaited return of Madame
Ranevsky, the mistress of the house, and her daughter Anya. Madame
Ranevsky has two daughters. She fled the cherry orchard five years ago after
the deaths of her husband and young son. She is returning there now from
France, where her abusive lover robbed and abandoned her. She has accrued
great debts during her absence.
Lopakhin begins by telling the story of his own success: born a serf, he
managed to make himself a fortune. Another former serf, Firs, readies the

house during Lopakhin's speeches; Firs has maintained the same post he
always has, despite the Liberation. Dunyasha confesses a potential romance
between she and Ephikhodof, but no one is interested.
‘
Finally, Madame Renevsky returns. Her friends and family are overjoyed
to see her. Act | introduces many subplots: a romance between the tutor
Trophirnof and Anya, another hopeful romance between her sister Barbara
and wealthy Lopakhin, a love triangle between the servants Dunyasha, Yasha,
and Ephikhodof, the debt of the neighbour Pishtchik, the class struggles of
Lopakhin and Firs, the isolation of Charlotte, etc. The main intrigue of the play
however, hitches on Madame Ranevsky's debt. Neither she nor her brother
Gayef have money to pay mortgage on the cherry orchid estate, and unless
they find a solution, the state will be auctioned off in August.

Lopakhin suggests that Madame Ranevsky build a villa on the estate.
She can lease them and use the money to pay the mortgage. Madrne Ranevsky
and Gayef objects to the idea, and prefer to work something out on their own.
However, as spring passes into summer, Madame Ranevsky only finds herself
more in debt, with no solution in sight. Strange romances between Anya and

Trophirnof and Dunyasha and Yasha continue, while nothing developes
between Lopakhin and Barbara and Dunyasha and Ephikodof. Firs' health is
declining. Madame Ranevsky is receiving letters from her lover, and Gayef
begins to consider a job at a bank. Pishtchik takes out loans from Madame
Ranevsky, whose own funds are dwindling away to nothing.

On the night of the auction, no solution has arrived. Madame
Ranevsky holds a ball. Charlotte performs and guests and servants alike dance.
Madame Ranevsky and Trophirnof have a serious conversation about Madame
Ranevsky's extravagance; not only does she continue to run up debts, but

she is considering to return to her abusive lover in France. Madame Ranevsky
is nervous about the outcome of the auction; she is still hoping for a miracle.

