MUSIC DIRECTOR

कि
founder member of IPTA. Apart from being a teacher
imparting training in Dance, Drama and Music in
Government Physical Education School, he rose to
Joint Director in the year 1986 in the Song and
Drama Division. Before this assignment, he worked
as supervisor of music (1949) and a lecturer in
voice, speech and body-movement in the National
School of Drama (1959 to 1968).
He has directed as well as acted in many Indian
and world class dramas and ballets. He has directed
the seventeen episode serial Bhule Bisare Chitra
(1964) of Bhagwati Charan Verma, and acted in
ﬁlms like

Poster, New Delhi Times and several

Doordarshan .serials. To mention a few, Panchhi,
Zameen, Sadbhavana, Chitthi Aai Hat etc. ,
Kabira Khada Bazar Mein, Veer Gati, Andha

Y'ug, Ras-Gandharva, Evam Indrajit, and Do Kaudi
ka Khel, have been decorated with his music.
Pan ch an an P at h a k

Besides, Music direction and acting, Sri Pathak
Panchanan Pathak is a septuagenarian, renowned

has written several dramas, bellets, puppet-plays

for his contribution towards the light and melodious

and has scored script based on sound and light. He

music . He is still committed and equally energetic

has translated and adapted many Indian and Foreign

to theatre. Music is his ﬁrst love, his soul and he

dramas into Hindi. He was associated with ENACT

has been very rightly decorated as the encyclopaedia

a theatre journal.

of old tunes.

He has been honoured by Delhi Natya Sangh,

His father Shri Radheyshyarn Pathak was an

National School of Drama and Urdu Academy for

active freedom ﬁghter. After obtaining M .A. in Hindi

his outstanding contribution towards theatre. He

and a degree in Law, Panchanan Pathak obtained

has also been decorated with Doctor ofMusic from

mastery on Vocal and Instrumental music. Apart

World Development Parliament and received honour

from these activities, he has been an activist (1943-

from Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi.

51) in Communist Party of India and took part in

A humble devotee of theatre Shri Pathak is presently

Quit India Movement. He has been jailed several

working as a Director in the S‘chool of Acting

times for his political activities. He has also been a

(Drama Education Society).

