(a

DIRECTOR

He has successfully coordinated the presentation
of dramas and workshops in various centres of the
country. He has been actively given his services as a
theatre person in important seminars, conventions,
Boards and Advisory committees and worked as a
prominent participant in prime theatre festivals of the

c ou ntry .
Prof. Shah has written full length plays like
Trishanku, Sheh-Ye-Maat and Yudhaman. He has also

adapted the celebrated novels Mitro Marjani and
Animal Farm into Hindi, which were highly appreciated.
He has translated and adapted theatre version of many
Indian and foreign dramas as well. He has also
contributed several articles on theatre in reputed Hindi

and English journals and periodicals.

He has been honoured on various occasions for
his outstanding career and contribution towards Indian
theatre. He has been awarded Madhya Pradesh Kala
Prof. B. M. S h ah

Parishad Puraskar (1973-74); Punjabi Kala Sangam
In the contemporary Indian theatre scene Prof. Brij
Mohan Shah is an established man. He is renowned

Puraskar (1976), Bhumika, Delhi (1983-84), Shobhana,

actor, director and dramatist. He has also long been
associated with the revival of Parsi theatre.

(1979-02 Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi ( 1988.89) and

Delhi (1976-77), Central Sangeet Natak Akaderni award

UP. Sangeet Natak academy award (1988).

Prof. Shah was born and brought up in Nainital and
received his early education from CRST school. After
obtaining his post-graduate degree from DAV College,
he got admitted in the National School of Drama, in

He has won the Best Playwright award in (198182) instituted by Sahitya Kala Parishad and honoured
by National School of Drama for his outstanding

the year 1960. He specialised in the ﬁeld of theatre

contribution towards theatre and teaching. Besides, he
is a recipient of All India Bharatendu Harishchandra

production. Soon after he was engaged in theatre,
the
cinema and doordarshan. Apart from being in

Award by HP. (1992) and won the Kala Mandir, Gwalior

was
Government and Non-government organisations, he
(1982the Director in the National School of Drama

award (1987). In 1992 he was given warm civic
reception at his hometown Almora, Nainital. He has
been decorated with ‘Yash Bharati’ award , (U P.).

Group
84), worked as a Director in the Little Theatre
( l 9 7 2 -7 6 ) ,

Founder

Member

and

Director

of

Kala
‘Dishantar,’ Delhi and Vice-Chairman of Parvatiya

After retirement from National School of
Drama he is presently working as a free-lance
theatre person.

Kendra, Delhi.

