' PLAYW RI GHT ’ S NOTE

खी

One is not born, but becomes a woman.
— Simon de Beauvoir

Man-woman relationship is a very complex subject
and hence can not be understood completely. Some
times efforts made to understand, further complicate

scenes showed the tension generated by the legalillegal relationship, between men dressed up as
women, and their wives, children, elders and friends.

the situation. But at times it so happens that one

Having pondered over this idea I sounded more like

effort gives rise to a new endeavour. There are

a third rate sociologist than a playwright. I tore

factors like biological, psychological, hereditory,

these scenes and thought of making a new beginning.

traditonal, social, economical, geographical etc. that

Since my boyhood I had seen many Nautankies in

contribute to the man-woman relationaship. This

my small town Ambah. Two of my friends

topic has always been a challange for writers and

occasionaly took part in these Nautankies as a hobby.

artists.

We were well aware that like other folk arts, in

In my first play Kriti-Vikriti a trial to emphasize

Nautanki also, female roles were played by good

' that rivalry is the external reason behind the man

and woman tension and my baised understanding
confirmed that further. In my later plays this
relationship surfaces here and there but is never
made the main subject of the play. This could be
the reason why my later plays are thought to be
more meaningful.
The text and the literal meanings, of the second half
of the above quote ‘But becomes a woman' taken

from the English translation of Simon de Beauvoir's
book The Second Sex, struck my mind. It was
during this time that I came across a news piece,
that in South India there is this custom where once
in a year for three days, men not only dress up as
woman but also behave like them. This becomes
the basis of my exploration into the man-woman
relationship, once again and hence this play.
In the first scene of first draft which I wrote, the

Nautanki wala Dilawar had no entry.The next two

looking boys. This fact was in confirmation with
my subject and I decided that through nautanki I
can tackle this concept.

The problem now occurred in the shape of
remembering the tune and lines of the metres used
in nautanki. I contacted my theatre friends, librarians,
and publishers in Delhi to get hold of some books
on nautanki plays but the effort was futile. Even
publishers like Dehati Pustak Bhandar did not have
books on Nautanki. After struggling a lot I found an
old friend of mine who had worked on Nautankies
and with his help I got a book from Hathras.
Thereafter it took me no time to finish my play.

In the beginning itself I named the play 'I‘hanku
Baba Lochan Das the last sentence of the play,
thinking it will be changed later. The play will be
called’Nar-Nari. NSD organised the reading of NarNari in August'95. But if they now prefer the ﬁrst
title, let it be so.

‘—-Nag Bodas

