DANCE LIKE A MAN
'लूट्स r ।

WHAT: 'Notes on Chai' Is a collection of
snippets of everyday conversations
interwoven with abstract sound
explorations that, together, create a series of
images and conversations simultaneously in
the everyday world and at the edge of It,
encouraging the spectator to attempt to
relocate his / her relationship with the
everyday.

"क्या श्री"2:3.2:90 क्या पिं०४25, 600 FM ,

.

WHAT:This is है cinematic adaptation of the
theatrical performance.'lhe story of JairaJ
and Ratna. two Bharatnatyarri dancers past
theirprime, is contrasted with that of their
daughter Lata, who is on the brinkof
establishing herself as a brilliantdancer. Her
imminent success creates tension and
jealousy, and the audience is drawn into the
dark secrets of family relationships and
conﬂicts between generationslhe play
probes the surface of the characters to
question their deeper motivations, butthe
mode is cornlc rather than tragic. even
though the concerns are serious. and you
are never sure whether to laugh or cry. Cast:
Lillete Dubey,Vijay Crishna. Suchitra PillaiMalllc Joy Sengupta.
WHEN: Nov 22, 8:30 PM
WHERE: ﬂo'uaeoﬁvgopwgﬂasement,
'’ B" l ldirig' il "" '
' t.Stanis

wnenenmtrwl means, 26 Jamil Kutrr. Juh'u ३

S'cho‘ol. dandra‘we'st:h‘ﬁﬁnbal

Church Road, Murnbal

Music 8. Dance

दृ

M EH FlL-E-GEET- 0 -G H AZAL
WHAT: Get ready to be transported to the
soulful world of Ghazals with a concert that
will feature talented singers like Vijay Desai,

Ud has, 6 hulam A | i, etc.
WHEN: Nov 21. 7:00 PM

Shoma Banerjee, Prashant Vishwakarrna,

Madhvee,Ganesh Songare and Kaushik
Kanadhia performing mesmerizing Ghazals
that were sung bygreat and revered
singers such as Mehdi Hassan, Pankar

WHERE: Mysore Association
A udito ri um, 393 Bhaudaj i Ro a d.
N ear Mahe shwa r i Udya n, Ma tu nga iE l.
M urrrba I

PATH OF THE HEART: A MUSICAL EVENING BASED ON KABIR
WHAT: Kabrr (c. l 425 1 505),the greatest mystic poet of the Bhaktl era. challenged all the
established religious and philosophical traditions Hernant Chauhan is one of the most

popular folk singers from Gujarat.With a voice that resonates with the folk flavour of
Central India, Chauhan has a huge repertoire of folk and devotional songs of Meerabai,

Kabir and Haridas. Mentored by the legendary maestro, Kumar Gandharva,Satyasheel
Deshpande rs a vocalist, researcher, composer and author. all rolled in to one. In each of
the areas, he has had notable contribution. lleman Chavan and Satyasheel Deshpande
will present compositions of Kabir in the folk and classlcal~based styles respectivelyThe
songs focus on the loving devotion to an invisible and formless (nirgun) god, which
resides in the heart, and can only be experienced with faith and devotion.

WHERE: Ta ta Experimental Thea t e, N CPA , N a rI man Po i nt, M urnha i

Ja! 1‘4

WHEN:Nov 20-22, 7 . 30 p rn

