हूँ

raft पविष्ठान

t "हृऱहैएँडेहृदृर्द्धदु

' ‘ I

BB,»
5

ABOUT OURS’ELVES
LAK sH M I

By
M AZU M DAR

Delhi Children’s Theatre was established in the year 1954 with the- blessings
of late Jawaharlal Nehru, then Prime Minister of India.
duly converted into a registered body in the year 1962.

The Organisation was

The Organisation runs six Training Centres in different parts of the city.
On
account of limited funds at their disposal, the Centres are run in the premises ‘of
educational institutions.

Each centre is, however, provided with qualiﬁed and

trained Choreographers, Music Directors,
Teachers-in-Charge and peons-on-duty.

Dramatists,

Tabla

Accompanists,

The Organisation holds an Annual Festival every year in February-March

in the well- equipped Theatre Hall of New Delhi.

On this occasion, not only are

the productions of our Training Centres presented, but a large number ofour
Institutional Members also participate in the Festival and present their own
items.

By and large, short stories based on folk-lore, and fairy tales of our country,
rendered in the form of dance-dramas, are produced by our centres. As the
age-group of our trainees is between seven and twelve years, they dance to
rhythmic tunes accompanied with simple steps and free movements. In recent
years, chorus singing has also been introduced. At the last Trade Fair ASIA
72, held in India our Organisation was requested by the Government to present
our items before the visiting public in one of the evenings. Along with other
attractive items, a chorus party consisting of more than one hUndred' children

charmed the large audience with their vocal music.

We have also taken steps to

teach the boys and girls of a slightly higher age-group viz., those between twelve
and ﬁfteen years the technique of straight drama.

The Organisation has been working in close cooperation of the educational
authorities and has been able to establish close relations with most of the
leading educational institutions in Delhi, so much so that, on all important
occasions these institutions participate in the activities of the Theatre. In 1961

