ganised
as a token of our participation in the Rabindra Jayanti Celebration, well-or
Festival.
items adapted from the writings of Tagore were presented at the Annual
dancea
of
Besides, the life of Tagore was enacted by the children in the form

drama. In the year 1970 as a token of their participation in the Gandhi Centenary,
of
suitable themes based on Gandhiji’s teachings were prepared in the form
,
dance-dramas, group singing and straight dramas. Besides, the life of Gandhiji
es
prejudic
his struggle for independence and big ﬁght against the customs and

Darshan
prevailing in our country were also prepared and presented at Gandhi
were also
along with the Annual Festival of the year. A good many of the items
d by the
produced in the T.V. Besides, we presented our shows as requeste

events.
authorities concerned to entertain the participants at several international
Assembly in
For example, in the year 1956, when the UNESCO held their General

Delhi; in 1959 when the World Bureau of Boy Scouts held their 17th International
for
Conference 'in Delhi the Delhi Children’s Theatre put up special performances
the entertainment of the delegates.

We are conscious that in order to launch a healthy and strong Children’s
Theatre Movement, it is necessary to coordinate the work of the various groups
working in different parts of India. As a ﬁrst step to reach this objective, under
the auspices of our Organisation and the Bharatiya Natya Sangh and with the help
of the Ministry of Education, an all—India Seminar on the Children’s Theatre
Movement was organised in 1965 in which forty organisations from different parts
of India participated. Besides, f'our foreign experts contributed papers for the
Seminar. The Seminar was followed by demonstrations of different art forms.

The seminar ﬁndings spelt out in clear terms the aims and objects of the Children’s
Theatre Movement and also the kind of art-form that should be adopted to
develop the Movement on a large scale.
'
It was also felt that in order to coordinate the efforts in the ﬁeld, an allIndia Body should beset up federating all the Units of the Country. In order to
achieve this end, an All-India Children’s Theatre Festival was held in 1971 in
which 10 States and 46 different Units participated. The Festival was held for
seven days. This was followed by a symposium in which the main theme was how
to coordinate the work of the different units and what steps should be taken to

develop Children’s Theatre Movement as an adjunct to

our educational pro-

gramme. It was agreed that an all-India Organisation should be set up federating
the different organisations. Besides, steps should be taken to train the personnel

for the Movement and also for the production of literature on regional languages.
Thus a favourable ground was created for the development of the Movement
in an organised way. Nonetheless, it was felt that before launching an all-out
effort in this direction. a Children’s Theatre Centre should be established where
regular entertainments for children of different age-groups could be held and,

