NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

The National School of Drama, one of the foremost theatre
training institutions in the world and the only one of its kind in
India, was set up in 1959. Over the years the School has
made advances on various fronts including a rapid expansion
, of its activities in all parts of the country. It has produced a
galaxy of talented actors, directors, script-writers, designers,
technicians and educationists who work in theatre, films and
television and have been recipients of several awards at the
national and international
level.
The training in the School is based on a thorough,
comprehensive, carefully-planned syllabus, which covers
every aspect of theatre, in which theory is related to practice
and in which all work is ultimately put to test before a wide
public audience. The syllabus takes into account the methods
of great theatre personalities who have shaped
contemporary theatre in all its forms. The systematic study
and practical performing experience of Sanskrit drama,
modern Indian drama, traditional Indian theatre forms, Asian
drama and Western drama give the students a solid
grounding and wide perspective in the art of theatre.
The School has a Repertory Company and Theatre-inEducation Company in Delhi and a Regional Resource
Centre at Bangalore. NSD's Extension Programme seeks to
extend and diffuse its activities in all regions of the country. A
programme for research, documentation and publication is a
recent addition to strengthen the academic activities of the
School. The School's publications include anthologies of
plays “in different Indian languages translated into English,
reference works and theatre studies in Hindi and two regular
periodicals, viz. Rang Prasang'111 Hindi, and Theatre lndia'।"
English.

The Concept of Traditional Theatre Workshops In the
Regional Areas
By the 19703 the national consensus upon which institutions
such as the NSD had functioned since the 49605 was
beginning to break-down. Forms of regional assertion had
begun to interrogate the Nehruvian model of the centralized
institution. B.V. Karanth, who became Director of NSD in
1977, responded to these articulations by attempting to forge
a representative “contemporary idiom” which drew upon
indigenous performance practices.
Karanth, in a reversal of the then existing system of the threeyear diploma course with specializations, set up an
“integrated” syllabus that reflected his belief that the theatre
was primarily a collective activity with no stringent division of
responsibilities. As he put it “. . .there has to be a solid practical
training, which determines the voice, the body and the
sensibility of the training as its nucleus. Covered alongside
are all connected areas of work major and minor such as
stagecraft, stage technique, lighting, direction, even scriptwriting.” Such an approach led to the shifting of the school's
pedagogic emphasis from an academic engagement to
hands-on learning in the process of production. This was a
process-oriented, artisanal approach where one learned
through participation.
There was also a Substantial shift in terms of the aesthetic
content transmitted. Karanth'8 own training was manifest in his perception of dance and music as central to an Indian
performance vocabulary. Emphasis was placed on trainir ‘
voice, sound and music, and various traditional forms
were based on body mOvements were also Incorporate
Also, gurus of the traditional forms were regularly ।अप्र१वापू१,
work WIth students.
. ३ ५
The presentform of the 45days Workshop in a paItIciJ
traditional form for the students (If theschool18 tIIeexten

oftheabove approach _‘

३

-

