About

Tamas ha

Tamasha, as the form stands today, is a secular, variety
entertainment package, mostly catering to the village
people of Maharashtra. lts antecedents have been traced
back to the practices of 'khadi gammat' (literally meaning
'entertainment given by standing performers') by the low
caste Mangs and Mahars. It has also drawn from several
folk and popular traditions like jagran-gondhal , the powdas
of lok shahirs, Dashavatara, the gavalana of the Marathi
saint poets and other elements of the Bhakti tradition, the
metrical forms of lavani geet, dance elements from Kathak,
and has even borrowed stage techniques from Parsi
theatre, and more recently has been influenced by film.
Tamasha concretized as a distinct form only around the
late 18th - early 19th century under the patronage of the
Peshwas, particularly in the court of Bajirao ll. in the
served as camp
course of its history, it has also
entertainment for soldiers. Around the 19405, it became a
mainstream folk form, getting organized almost along the
lines of an industry. Some of the pioneering names
associated with this form include Shahir Anant Phandi,
Honaji Bala, Saganbhau, Patthe Bapurao, Bhau Bapu
Mang Narayangaonkar, etc.
While the style of Tamasha varies from region to region in
Maharashtra, by and large a Tamasha performance
comprises of two broad sections - the Poorvaranga and the
Vag natya. As in many other traditional theatre forms, the
performance is announced by the percussion beats of the
dholakiwala and halgiwala (who plays a daph-like
instrument). The percussionists are then followed by the
other instrumentalists, the tuntunewala (playing something
like the ektara) and the rnanjirawala (who plays the
cymbals). The Poorvarang proper begins with the Gene —
an invocation to Ganesha, sung by all the male members of
the T'arnasha troupe.

This is followed by the Gavalan, a boisterous spin-off on the Krisnalila where two villagers take on the role of Krisna and his accomplice
Pendia, and they stop the gavalans (gopis or rnilkrnaids) on the way to the market. This segment, in which the gavalans seek the
protection of rnausi (the character of a senior aunt, played by a male actor who retains his masculine appearance but dons a suggestive
upparna), is filled with wit, innuendos, teasing and farcical elements, as well as dance. in earlier Tarnashas, this segment was followed
by the Jhagada or Kalgi tura, a sawal-jawab type of lavani in which the subject matter was mythological, philosophic or theocratic.

