Director's Note
The main aim behind the theatre workshop organised by the National School of DramaIs to learn the folk form ofa
of India and to engage in an encounter With our theatre roots. I believe itIs important to learn a formIn the region . - .
from; so when । got the opportunity to conduct a workshop on Tamasha, I chose to organise it in Bararnati in the Pu’ne dis,
western Maharashtra, because it is in this region (Pune, Satara and Kolhapur districts) that the mainstream Tamashas occur; ‘
Under the guidance of the eminent Shahir Dada Pasalkar, who has been engaged as the expert for the workshop, I designed t ‘
workshopIn two parts; the first for appreciation of the form, and the second for the exploration of a play based on the form. Int "
first, we invited the Suryakant—Chandrakant Viralikar Tamsha Mandali, Mrs Madhumati Karnbikar and her group, Jai Mall,
Gondhali Mandali, and Mrs Sushma Deshpande to give performances on various folk forms related to Tamasha. Experts like“

opportunity to mingle with the artists, understand
their social structures, the downtrodden backgrounds from which 111ट्वे
their struggle not only to survive economically but also to reinvent theIr form to ensure the survival ofTamasha.
As theatre people, itIs important to realise that folk artists' lives are dependent entirely on their folk art, and vice versa; 301 Ie‘j
creative instincts and the thrust of what they say through their performances comes from their lives. Thus it was essential that th‘
students appreciate the social context and circumstances under which Tarnasha is performed today, because not only is 1
choice of subject matter a reflection of their lives, but also the expressive style of acting, the body language, the v0Iceproj
the satirical humour, the festive style of performance, all are an expression of the conditions under which Tama a 5
today.
For the students, the challenge has been notjust the language, but grappling with the rural culture of Maharashtra and
this into the performance. The selection of a play like Saiyyan Bhaye Kotwal has given the opportunityto explore11 "

students, and toAthlash PIllaI forall his encouragement । would We tothank Suthr KulkarnI B. Ratna, Suresh
Shett"३
Sarmah for visiting and lending their support to the worksh0p process, and Brijenesh Dubey for his enthusiastic managerial _
support. I am thankful to Vidhya Pratisthan and Medicos Guild, Bararnati for providing us with space and allowing the workshop to happen. I would also like to thank Lalit Kala Kendra, Pune, the villagers of Katewadi, and all the friends in Baramati who have;I

