SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORMING ARTS grew out of what was originally
known as Indian National Theatre, heralding a revival in the Indian Cultural scene. Shri
Ram Centre is one of the leading Cultural Organisation in India and has all along been
striving hard to nurture and develop talent in the ﬁeld of Performing Arts and our
programmes are organised to achieve this end.

S R C THEATRE REPERTORY COMPANY
In 1980 the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre Repertory Company, the
aim being to produce meaningful plays by well known play—wrights to create an
involvement with theatre amongst theatre lovers. Besides performing regularly in Delhi,
SRC Repertory undertakes trips to other parts of the country as well. Our Repertory
Company has the honour of working with eminent Directors like Rajendra Nath, Ranjit
Kapoor, B.V. Karanth, Habib Tanvir, B.M.Shah, Bansi Kaul, Bhanu Bharti, Sanjay
Upadhyay, Piyush Mishra, Suresh Sharma, Roysten Abel Bapi Bose, Avtar Sahni,
Chittaranj an Tripathi, Urmil KumarThapliyal & Mushtaq Kak.
ACTING COURSE
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts conducts
a two year part time training programmes. The 1 st year is devoted to in-depth study of all
aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into
production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western and modern-Indian dramas. This
helps to prepare a professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future.
Students who complete the course with exellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory orjoin the National School of Drama or the Media.

S R C CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP
To inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage of India, particularly amongst
younger generations, SRC has been organizing production oriented Children Theatre
Workshop every year and this endeavour has been widely welcomed by one and all,
including media.

ANNUAL SHRI RAM MEMORIAL LECTURES
The Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lecture Series was started in 1986 to give due
recognition to important theatre luminaries and their profound contribution in enriching
the Indian Theatre Movement. This Lecture Series has featured such theatre luminaries as
Utpal Dutt,Habib Tanvir, Vijaya Mehta, Shiv Ram Karanth, B adal Sircar, Vijay Tendulkar

etc.

The Centre has also published these lectures for theatre lovers and others as an
authentic documentation of Indian Theatre Movement.

Shri Ram

’

‘ Centre For
I Performing
Arts

4, Safdar Hashmi Marg, New Delhi - 1

__ '

कुँआ।

.3803

