10th November, ’86 Paneham Vaidie, Calcutta
Presents

A. SOMBHU MITRA PRODUCTION

Noothboti Anoothobot
Play, Direction and sole acting
SAQLI MITRA
A Kathak or storyteller is a common. character in Indian Villages. And mostly
his or her narratious are based. on, the epics—wthe Ramayana and the Mahabharata-«and
the Puranas. There are more than one forms of Kathakata or storytelling. He
makes use of his Voice by narration. obviously, and Songs, and Sometimes he makes use
of his body in movements, in. dances. The simple village folk; may never have heard

of alienation, or Such other jargons of the modern. theatre. Nevertheless they enjoy a
theatrical performance that is devoid of sets and Stage ptoPerties and light cheers and
even more than. one actor.

Our play Naathabati

Ahaathabat takes

up one form of

Kathakata.

The

Kathak Sometimes takes the help of dancing to illusrrate either a character in her Story

or to depict an event. Here she is a woman. She is aione on the stage amongst a
few wooden levels and a line of musicians at the back of the stage. She narrates the
story of the hapless queer: Draupadi. But she occasior‘ally takes leave of the narratiVe
Style and enters from her role of a storyteller into the different characters. This duality
of the narrator and the actor, of alienation and identiﬁcation is Woven with such

:Subtlety that the different identities of the narrator, analyst and the actor are lost
in the final fabric.

The Play aims at harmOmSiﬂg the traditional and

the

contemporary. The

Storyteller tells a story from the Mahabharata but adds her comments and analysis
which Would remind one of the contemporary world. The tunes of her songs tap
two of the most important sources of our culture-~the wealth of the Indian Classical

Music on. the one hand, and pure folk music. on the other. She uses a Few ‘MudraS’
and ﬁgures of the Indian Classical dance to etch out a situation and the characters
involved in it. Her plastic stance on. the stage reminds one of the acre-old temple sculpture. Her forms of speech are a perfCCt 53794116515 Of Sophistry and simplicity.

She uses a

