PLACE OF DANCE DRAMA AND MUSIC IN A CHILD’S LIFE
SAMAR CHATTERJEE
( Founder—C. L. T. Calcutta)
It is a general statement to make that the future wellbeing of a nation depends

on our ability to educate our children. It is also good to know that the attention of
responsible persons has been drawn towards the problem of our children’s education,
Education on proper lines does not mean good schools only but implies favourable

social environment also.

This environment can only be brought in by leaders of

society, educationists and parents.

Although efforts have been made to bring about

this environment, it has been very much halfnhearted and often ended in total failure
to grasp the signiﬁcance of a good media to develoo the mind of a total child, one
must: base his efforts on a very correct appreciation of the inborn sense
of rhythm
that is present in every child. Close observations and experimental
studies (have

revealed not only the presence of this sense in children but also how they make use of
it in their form of play and work. 'I‘iniest children often take notice of rhythmic
music and in some form or other giVe expression to it. I have seen two years olds

keeping perfect time with intelligible rhythmic: music and having a most delightful time.
Indeed, the mother’s lullaby and the rocking movements intended for making the child
sleep would have failed in their purpose had there not been an innate sense of rhythm
in the Child Rthhm PrOduces joy and lOY is expressed through rhythm. Obviously
we can make capital of this to make a child happy and educate him through joy and not

tears.

IFlOY is to be the bisic prlnCiple of education what better medium can be
utilised but the innate sense of rhythm and the innate tendancy to rhythmic activities है
For deeper impression as also for better expression no method could be more successful. Schools do not and cannot satisfy all needs of the child, hence it is a necpsgitv to
supplement the school work by extra curricular activities outside the school and specially
in such institutions as Bal Bhavan, Scouts and Guides. Apart from joy, whet-her {q the
making of a dancer or a soldier, infusing a proper sense of rhythm is the ﬁrst lesson
towards inculcting automatic discipline of the body and co—ordinating the iiu1bs,
Group action songs and dances have several other important points to recommend
themselves to the small children. Apart from acquainting the child with the funda.

mental sense of rhythm, they teach the child to Work in coordination with others.
They help to bring out the odd shy child to his own.

The dance 1e330n aids in

modulating the child’s Step and movements With a natural grace.

For over

twenty

