years I have delved into the minds of children and the results have been amazing.

Many thouSands of children have passed through the precincts of CLT and they are
certainly different. from other children who were not fortunate enough to receive

the beneﬁt of a system so essentially interlinked with general education.

Take for instance dancing : imposition. of dancing in nursery or primary Classes
does not necessarily mean teaching the children classical steps at the age of 4.
It is
for the teacher to evolve and compose school room steps strictlv in the age group of
the child. The composer will have to think in terms of the capacity of the child
to
understand the Steps and the rhythm associated with it. As the child grow up, the
composition changes, they are more Competent now to understand a different rhythm
and a different timing. The sense of not being alone gives the child additiona
l strength
and conﬁdence to do better and better.

From the school room steps to little known

folk steps is easy to accomplish. Dancing to rhythmic beats is a ﬁne experience,
which a child would seldom miss. From year to year this experince will have to be
varied and changed just as we change our text books from term to term. Unlike
adults, one thing the child will not do is doing the same thing over and over again
just as it would not like to read the same lines for weeks on. The child does not
care for the perfection of a given composition and this is the reaSOn why it comes to
near perfection with ease and grace. To her dancing is the main thing not accomplishment.
But mere dancing would be a chaos if the cornccsition lacks music.

Music is

an implement to urge the child to do better. \K-Thile the berg-ussion helm to ﬁnd the
rhythm, the music and words complete the process by helping the child to express
itself Spontaneously and often without outside guidance. It is, therefore, essential to
COIHPOSC the right muSl-C for the Child- It has to be lilting and uplifting exnloitinn
all the innate senses of an innocent being. What it further requires is careful repetitions of rhythmic words soaring above the class room. The child also loses itself
in sheer. joy. The composition 'of this type of music is not - eaSy. >4 4

Writer of Nursery rhymes or little rhyme plays must undersrand the child’s mind.
The subject must be of some familiar situation or experience in life or it must refer

to other little folks or it may 'be pure nonsense, attracting their imagination, To this
the music composer must add his own little bit and give life to the rhyme plays_
We have a Wealth of rhyme plays given to us from generation to generation and
the5e with certain modiﬁcation Would make delightful situations in the class rooms.
On the other hand we must ﬁnd writers to give us new vehicles for the child to use_
’The lines must be short and pithy and the music bright
and easy. Taken altogether
the whole class would ﬁnd it most exhilarating to respond to the rhythmic process thus
created.

From dance and music to drama is but one step forward. The, children are
born actors and actresses. They react naturally to rrirr‘es and play acting apart from

