creative dramatics, rhyme plays offer enough. scope to give shape to the feelings of
the child by way of translating the music and rhythm into appropriate expression,
Here a130 group activities count much. The school rooms will indeed be joy houses if
the introduction of dance, drama and music is done carefully. Indeed I have no doubt
that it will help to make the child grasp his text books more thoroughly if all the
facets of child education are considered totally.
That the Little Theatre activities greatly enhance the capacity of the child to
understand its books better has been more than proved on the CLT Campus. Most
of the children in the Centre are within the first ten in the class room and I am happy

to state that many are amongst the ﬁrst threes.

What has been made possible in the

Centre could be done with more success in the school particularly as the children have

more than zoo days of work in the year. The point is, can the schools take out time
from their regular curricular activities to introduce dance, drama and music? I have
no hesitation to Say that they could, if corresponding burden of unnecessary books is

reduced )udiciously.

It is essential to make the class room brighter and more joyous so

that the children are ready to assimilate the three R’s.
ATMOSPHERE AND ENVIRONMENT

Except in a few schools, there is no atmosphere for extra curricular activities.
Less we say about environment is better. There are games and sports activities_ Even
these are sporadic and we have yet to be convinced of a set plan of extra curricular
work for the teacher to carry out during the year.

But dance, drama and music? In

80 per cent of schools, these activities are tabooed while in others there is an attempt
to do something during the annual school prize day and thats all.

To create an

atmosphere the first requisite is trained teachers well versed in the technique of
Children’s Theatre. The teacher must know what it is all about. He must have a
Specially earmarked music room where he can get together the children Without

having to shift from one place to another. Then comes the material to be used,
Speciﬁc and well—tried rhymes, rhyme plays, plays, ballets should be made available to
them complete with staff notation. Be it noted that these materials vary from age
to age.

Just as they need new text books from time to time, so they need new material

from time to time. This search for material is one of the greatest possible obstacle in
making the children interested.
Every school need a colourful and well equipped hall where the teacher and
children could form a pleasant team.

This then is the basic atmosphere where you

can experiment with Children’s Theatre. At every school there should be a well set
up Choir, an Art Teacher who can enthuse the group in providing colour and rhythm,
a Musician or two can give the children a good time by providing music of the right

kind.

At the initial stage such co—ordination may be found trying and difﬁcult but

once the pace has been set the reWard will be lasting and most satisfying.

