Establishment of out—of—school activities such as Bal Bhavan or Scouts and Guides,

however, presents a mixed facilities. For example attendance in these institutio
ns is
never regular particularly due to transport difﬁculties and difficulties in
providing
escorts to the children. At the most it could provide opportunities to children
who
live closeby. Obviously, therefore, such Bal Bhavans must be available in every mohalla

or locality to offer facilities to local children. It must be clearly understood that short
term instructions as is given by Bal Bhavan, Delhi, will Serve no useful purpose. It will
satisfy neither the teachers nor the children.

The sense of belonging will only come

as and when the children learn to regard the Bal Bhavan, as the name implies, its
own home.

The child must stay on through its *‘formative stage as an integral part

of the house that will have leverythin'g for ३ him which \ his sch001 or home cannot
provide. It is because of this that the Balbhavans must endeavour to equip its premises
in a most colourful way omiting nothing that may interest a child. Dance, drama and
music could be the most potent media to attract the child provided the teachers are
aware of their responsibilities. Most unfortunately We do not have enough resources
to equip either the schools or tne children’s house. Even if we have them, we do not
know how to usc these to the best advantage. To establish out—of—school—activities

one could only use the school premises provided a wing fully equipped is set apart for
this object.

Left to themselves, the schools will never take the initiative.

They are

far too occupied with various problems arising out of administering a School. There
are far too many intrigues and dissensions and out-of-school activities have practically
no place in their Schemes.

What the education department could do is to make it

obligatory for the schools to provide accommodation for Such activities

and

then

entrust it to a well trained hand of social workers who could be given a free hand to

run these children’s houses.

