Folklore and Develooment
HABIB TANVIR

When we consider the role of folklore in the process of social

development, we

are ﬁrst confronted with a series of questions regarding social dCVelopment itself,
Does social development mean the economic development of one section of
society
at the cost of another as present P Then again, does economic development of a people
have to result in a comparative cultural improvisement of that same people as at

present तै

And then the question arises as to what is folklore, if not the gathered Wisdom
of a people, billowed through social frictions for centuries in to ﬂexible crystal forms
'carrying a system of values that support society, generate its growth and in the process

deﬁne and redeﬁne the contours of a people’s spiritual identity P
If such be the case, then folklore and folk culture would appear
to represent
at least one vital part of the treasure of indigenous resources available to a people for
their growth and development. Do our p'esent processes of development conform to
such a me made of the people’s culture है Or do
they rather tend to prove that all

folk culture is moribund and outdated and as such must be thrown into the! dust-bin

.thistory दृ;

The protagonists of this theory would somet
imes suggest that even if

. neglect is not practised censciously, history would take its inevitable
course and annihilate

an indigenous culture anyway P What would ' be the end result in Such an
event but
the growth of a so—called standard culture, in other words a regimented culture
devoid

of the myriad shades and nuances of people’s creative energies P
is what has started happening in our country.

Right now this

There is an old Karma folk song in

Chhattisgarh, whose refrain signiﬁes this trend,

"करमा के पोथी ला घर में विस आमों, नाहक होगे मोर आना ना ।"
I forgot the book of Karma at home, and I have come all this way quite in

vain, The present thrust of our development is the growth of a consumer society.
The resultant culture of such a society is consumerism.

it8elf becomes a commodity for consumption.
becoming consumer goods.

In such a society, culture

Our art and culture therefore are faSt

It is necessary for a conSurner society to go in for imported

big technology and mass production of goods. Applied to culture, the result is an
imitative and re girnented culture, cut ofl’ from its roots,
The main instrument of development being education, it would be worthwhile
to look into the State of our educational system—also a borrowed affair. Our stuffy

