class rooms in the name of Scientific higher education have
not only

brainwwashed

our youth in every other respect but in the main
[alienated them from their own

culture, no matter what other beneﬁts they may have bestOWed upon them.
On the
other hand, the burden of carrying our cultural legacy is lift to our illiterate rural
maSSes, who are either kept deprived of the beneﬁts of a formal education or coerced
into the so-called mainstream of life through a process of assimilation perpetuated
through our educational system. The choice before them on the rare occasion it has
given. them is either to remain in the exploited class of people or join the
exploiting

sections of society by becoming like them.
Looked at from this angle, our culture appears to be divided into two camps
opposed to one another-the culture of the exploiting classes of ~people and the
culture of the exploited classes. The story does not seem to be new, for this has
been the case through the ages. It has always been the aim of the ruling classes to
produce a language and a culture so esoteric and mystifying that it would be difﬁcult
for the outsider and the uninitiated to gain its knowledge and unravel and grasp its
meaning. This outsider has uSually been the common man. Right now something
very close to this is happaning in the matter of our Rashtriya
Bhasha and in respect
to all the modern instruments of communication Such as the press, radio, television

and the cine camera that have been so mystiﬁed as to become untouchable to the
common man, almost in the same manner as the Vedas were made untouchable to the -

ancient Shudras. It is only natural therefore that our media have been harnessed
to the needs of a ruling class and thereby become insrruments of oppression for the

people.
For instance, What is in a tele-camera that requires a higher educational degree P

It would appear that all it requries for creative handling is imagination, yet it cannot
be given to the imaginative but illiterate folk artisrs who might depict their OWn lives

more truthfully and artistically. Their life and culture too if at all, must be depicted
by a small coterie of educated middle class individuals, who are totally unaware of

the people’s life style and problems. And if some ‘ catalyst among them does happen
to take up cudgels on behalf of the people and proiect Itheir lite with daring and

imagination, his work is often dubbed anti—Socral and ' obJectionable. And even when
it is reluctantly accepted, it is more a meaSure for letting out steam than for serving
as a good example to be emulated,

This is the case in every ﬁeld of‘activjty,

medicine, We have allowed the multinational drug,r industries to have full sway

our doctors and the market and thrOugh them the public.

In
over

And when for instance an

occasional Dr. Khazan Chand of Almora, an eminent tuberculosis specialism develops
a medicine from herbs which cured all forms Iof .TB without after-effects, no notice
is ever taken either by doctors, or by medical institutons, . or our Health Ministers and
departn.lents or by the highest authorities.

And supposing his medicme was put to

test in a laboratory for which he clamoured all his life Without success, you can be
sure it would have heen discovered to be meﬂ‘icacrous, such is the hold of the purse

strings of multinationals.

