In all other ﬁelds such as fertilisers, chemical industries, agroindustries, architew

cture, agricultural methods and primary education, the indigenous has been almost
totally ignored and an alien imported technology generally superimposed. And the
impact is disastrous, quite frequently in the economic ﬁeld and almost always in the
cultural ﬁeld. The much boosted Green Revolution is an example in the economic

ﬁeld.

As for culture, its disarray can be witnessed everywhere.

Our coal and iron ore mines and big steel plants invariably happen to be
situated in the hearts of our tribal belts.

Away from them the tribals still live their

traditional life full of peace, agricultural pursuit of common interest, collective dances

and songs, and laughter despite want, poverty and deprivation.

Closer to these giant

centres ofdev'elopment, you ﬁnd that their community patterns of life are shattered
and they have become mere wage-earners, uneconcerned, selﬁsh individuals, drunkards,
trafﬁckers in ﬂesh, petty thieves and graecdy anti-socials given to vandalism.

While driving through tribal belts on good roads tnade by ourselves for our

own economic purposes, I noticed hundreds of tribal men, women and children going
to or coming from the weekly market in disciplined lines on a side away from the road
as if the road did not belong to them, allowing trucks, buses, jeeps, motor cars and
motor cycles to pass unnoticed without the need to blow the horn. And some walking
on the side of the road would sense a vehicle half a Furlan before it approached them
and automatically step aside without a child, man or woman ever turning to look

back.

This discipline and sensitivity to sound as compared to its utter lack in our

congested cities and smaller towns is only a matter of availability of greater space or is it

also related to the inner harmony of the people P
And I found the tribal children generally happy and laughing—the way they are
cared for by their mothers, as in the case of the 'woman with a pitcher of water on her

head and a child at her breast and another holding her hand and walking along with
her crying till she quietly picked him with one hand placed her on her hip Without
breaking the rhythm of her walk.
Needless to say that I am not proposing discontinuance of all big technology
plants, closing of all educational institutions, and taking to the impossible path of

reversal of history and going back to primitive ways 01’ life.

Niether am I setting

myself up for glorifying poverty and rornanticising the ’ people’s state of
dire want.

All

I am saying is that we have missed out on Pa Third World path of development.

By

and large, we have mis.~.ed out on the “utilisation of indigenous technology in develop-

ment.

We have failed to get people’s involvement in our developmental plans and

activities.

We have ignored and under-valued the power of the people’s traditional

ways of living, many of which can be geared to educational

and developmental

purposes. And abOVC all, iﬂStead 0f bridging the gap and allowing for creative
interaction between the two, We have allowed the chagne to grow deeper between the
rural and the urban peoples, between the educated claSSes and the illiterate masses, and
between the rich and the poor.
Yet there are Findividuals and voluntary organisations In M. P., U. P., Karnataka

