and elsewhere, which are working in almost every ﬁeld of activity in the direction
we have generally missed out. Then again there are examples Set in other Third
World countries of successful utilisation of traditional and other innovative
methods
suited to the genius of the people in education and social, cultural and
economic
development. These forces may be in a minority and may lack coordination
of effort,
but provided we are spared the total devastation threatened to be caused
by the
steam-roller culture of our growing consumer society or by a global nuclear
holocast,
these experiments at least serve as a beacon to safety and to proper growth
.
As for tradition, despite much that is irretrievably lost much Still remains
in

the so—called backward Sections of our people, thanks to our underdevelopment.
Our folk artists and rural peoples are wdoing yeoman’s service in keeping their perfor—
ming art forms and folklore alive, ५ some of which have eVen witness
ed a rebirth and

new growth e. g. Pandavani and Chandaini in Chhattisgarh ( M. P. ), Prahlad
Natak
in Ganjam ( Orissa ). The Pandavani form of Mahabharat, now practiced by numerou
s
parties including children and young girls as leaders, emerges not a religiou
s piece
so much as secular drama that sharply brings out the human dimensions of the epic
making it contemporaneous.

Likewise, the Prahlad Natak the way it is done comes,

not as an outdated old myth but as a battle against tyranny and

bigotry above all.

The secular Nacha form of Theatre in Chhattisgarh nearly always has social themes
to project.

Ther play JAMADARIN for instance castigates the

hilarious and thought—provoking

and disrurbing form.

caste

CHANDAINI

system

in a

known in

Bihar as LORIKAYAN deals with the ancient 10Ve story of Lorik and Chanda and their
exploits, bringing out a dazzling example of an emancipated woman. The JATRA, the
BI-LAVAI, the NAUTANKI are all equally socially-oriented. Our folk songs have

already incorporated allusions to the second Great World War, to national ﬁgures Such
as Gandhi and Nehru, to the SWadeshi movement, to the country’s partition, in addition

to references to our epics, thereby not only ensuring a continuity of tradition but
carrying germs of transformation and growth.

also

ई३टा जुड़ाई करत है गुनिया,

जर्मन के लडाई तपत है दुनिया,
गांधी के राज में गजब टूरी,

झन पहिरो रसेली विलायती चुडी,
राम मारे गोला लखन मारे बान,

सीता माई के रे खोज में निकलने हनुमान 1 १ .

पहिरे ला पनही खाए ला बीडा पान, ‘

'

मोर रायपुर के रहव्यन चल दिन पाकिस्तान ।
Songs of Kabir Das are sung all over the country by folk singers in ever-

changing words and forms. Folklore is not a static culture but a dynamic one, capable
of change, assimilating change and, indicating possibilities of great transformations.

