The so-called standard languages in our country, whOSe champions
tend to
neglect and crush the so—called substandard languages or

people’s

dialects,

deprive

themselves of the beneﬁt of their sources of growth—the peopl ’s
dynamic and graphic

uSages of words—«which can supply our cultural mainstreams with so much Vitality.
There is a general complaint that we in India do not have nursery rhymes,
puzzles, emigmas, nonsense, verses and so forth for our children. One has only
to
look into our dialects to discover a wealth of this form of literature.
But we have failed to discover them and use them even in the non—formal ﬁelds

of education.

Games such as Kabaddi and=PhugIEe, so good as exercises full of fun and

body—building devices are still by and large ignored even by our primary schools
which have established a record for themelves in dullness and boredom.

It would be simplistic to assume that just as progress in the tools of production
revolutionise production in the ﬁelds of agriculture and industry, the Same applies to
the production of culture. We have not yet discovered the laws that govern
the
growth of culture though we may have discovered such laws in the economic Sphere
of life.

In culture, the medium or tools do not necessarily decide the quality of

the meSSage, though they may determine its quantity.

Or else, how would one account

for the great culture that ﬂourished in ancient India and Greece? This is not to
say
that the present day cinema and TV Culture is altogether worthless.

On the contrary,

we have witnessed great cinema in life-time and we are aware of the great potential
of the TV med-Tum. The point is that one cannot compare the merits, of the cultures
of two diﬂerent epochs in history, whereas one can do so in the ﬁeld of economy. For
instance, one can safely say that the agricultural methods and production of today
compare favourably with those of yester years. But We cannot think of even making

a camparison of a Similar kind in culture.
In the matter of evolving a cultural policy therefore, we need for more
ﬂexibility.

We cannot afford to ignore tradition even when attempting to make experiments and
great innovations, saying that it reﬂects the life Style
and economy of an earlier
outmoded time.

Tradition is therefor not being sanctiﬁed and worshipped as the

vested interests would have us believe, but it also provides raw
material on which
to build ever—new ediﬁces of art if the latter has to have a sound foundation.

Folklore

therefore has to be considered to be all about this kind of transfo
rmation or its
possibility. And social development in the true sense of the word has to be considered

to be all about allowing people the environment and opportunity to grow on their
own lines.
५

