l

l
l

T # H E A T R AE ===

"O

vibrant women's consciousness is alive today and it boldly
problernatizes the place of women in society, art and theatre.
It looks upon theatre as an instrument of struggle over social
meanings that constitute gendered behaviour patterns around
us. Women’s Theatre Workshop aspires to promote
' enquiries into the very idea of a women’s theatre
which ,focusses on an authentic and honest
representation of female experience on stage. It
, further hopes to interrogate into the possibilities of a
I feminist theatre as an organic growth of the politically

informed theatrepractices. .

'

Manypoints अ, raised regarding the distinctionsbetween women’s
theatre and a feminist theatre. Is it possible to evolve a theatre with a
concrete ideological manifesto in hand? How does this theatge understand
and'subvert male dominance in theatre? How do social norms interact ३
with the diction of performance, the aesthetics of a tradition and the
deployment of female bodies on stage? We expect many voices to be
heard here on the changing status of the stage actresses today and on
how gender identities are played out and explored on stage.

Drama Festival
About 16 plays will be staged in the 10 day long National Drama
Festival which will focus on women’s contribution to contemporary
Indian theatre. This ’ will be a unique cultural event in the history of
Indian theatre and a rare opportunity to witness the productions featuring
'
strong female presence in Indian theatre.

‘ W. G R K S

Workshop
The Workshop aims to provide both practical & theoretical training
in all aspects of a performance. Depending on the aptitude and record
of steady interest and involvement in theatre, 25 women participants
within the age group of 15 to 35 will be selected from all the districts of
Kerala. About 15 others shall join them as observers.

Exhibition
We also plan to organise two major exhibitions as part of the
National WOrkshop on Women’s Theatre. One of them will be an
exhibition of photographs, news clippings, and all the other possible
items that we can gather from the history of women’s involvement in

N A T l 0 N A l.

theatre. Another exhibition along with this will be of Books, Periodicals,

Audio-video cassettes.

Books
A minimum of20 lectures are going to be delivered during the 10
days ofthe workshop. These valuable contributions shouldn’t go waste
with just one oral presentation in the workshop sessions. With this idea
in mind we planiabook - a compilation ofthese presentations. Similarly,
very old and retired women theatre activists from both professional and
amateur stages have expressed their consent to visit our workshop and
share the memories of their struggles. We would like to bind these
memories into a book.

