'.’I O I... 1

हुँ

- an“ A M‘.‘ .m c..... . m . «M

१८८१५,

«an; ९३' प्रदृड्डनृरु न
‘ -1-

l

5"“ ”£1531

PRODUCERS NOTE / -८नि१--९९हूँनि२१८हे१"२०------,
I feel I owe an explanation to the p W
also to the lovers of performing arts about Parvatiya Kala
Kendras staging of Arnir Khusro. It may not be a well known
fact that some compositions of Arnir Khusro form an integral part of the semi-classical traditions of Holi-singing in
Kumaon as also some songs sung on the occasion of
marriage ceremony by Kumaoni women folk. I also thought
that the Kendra could further enrich its theatrical repertoire
by continuing its ventures into musically rich pastures—
even if they may not belong to Himalayan heritage per 36,
like it did when it presented Inder-Sabha or Meghdoot.

After this idea caught my imagination I approached Shri
J.N. Kaushal to write the script. When he enquired about
the kind of script that I wanted, I told him not to dabble in
biographical details of Khusro's life, but to confine himself
to the lyrics including riddles composed by him which, over
the centuries have become part of Indian folklore. I also
told him to make it a mirror of his mystical journey, beginning from the point when he first encounters his mentor——
the great Sufi saint Khwaja Nizamuddin Aulia, to his final
exit. In this presentation we have not taken into account the
political or social turrnoils of the times, and have confined
ourselves to Khusro's all pervading deep poetic insights
into the life of people of India—their festivals and customs,
the seasons, the trees, the blossoms and the fruits, and the
small things of life related to their existence like the umbrella or a pair of scissors, and so on. Arnir Khusro expressed
great truths in the language of the people—the language
spoken by them in and around Delhi, which the scholars
have called Hindi or Dehalvi. The presentation ends with
complete surrender of Khusro to his mentor (Peer)-—the
great Sufi Aulia.
ng
We all know Arnir Khusro was not only a great poet havi
t
written copiously in Persian and Arabic, but also a grea

musician. My difficulties in composing music for this pro-

l

