general cut-off from its ethnic roots. These programmes
soon attained such popularity that not only voluntary institutions in Indian cities invited the Kendra to present these
programmes but also the ICCR sent the Kendra team to
Sikkim in 1971 (when it was not a part of lndiar) to Tunisia,
Algeria, Egypt, Syria and Jordan in 1984 and to North
Korea, China and Thailand in 1988.

Second Phase: The Kendra, while keeping with the Folk
Songs and Dance ensemble, developed a strong urge to
attempt theatrical presentations cf the ballads and songs
which constitute the richest cultural traditions of the people ,
of Uttarakhand. The first attempt in this direction was

Rajula-Mahushahi, which was followed by eleven other
ballads in the form of contemporary stage adaptations, and

three of these - RASI K RAMOLA, HlL-JATRA and HARUHEET
for T.V. presentations, which were telecast by Doordarshan
in its national network.

The other dimension during the second phase has been
presentation of the existing traditional theatrical forms.
Ramlila which is an unique theatrical form in Uttarakhand
synthesises compositions of Tulsidas with Braj, Avadhi
and Hindustani lyrical compositions of local poets of the
region and the entire Ramlila is sung by the actors in
compositions based on folk music, semi-classical and
classical (Hindustani-Vocal) music for eleven consecutives
nights. Similarly, Mahabharat was presented in Hindustani
and Garhwali, using Pandav-jagar style of Garhwal.

The other atte rnpts were to present Amanat's ‘ l N DER SABHA'
which occupies a significant place in the development of
l ndia ‘ rnusical' operas, and ‘ M EGHDOOT' of Kalidas through
a narrative musical structure.

Apart from these the Kendra also used the heritage of
songs and literary creations having roots in our struggle for
national liberation. GANGA‘, which was sponsored by Delhi

Hindi Academy, LAL-G U LAB and VAN DE-MATRAM , which
were sponsored by Delhi Sahitya Kala Parishad were three
such presentations.

