. क्या

bstr'act expression ‘ "m is ca tching on: Artist ' I.
ग्य'

For er architect Amrish Maivankar's series, Remnants, boosts viewers’ imagination
Preplanning is not something he is
used to: Instead, he responds to his
bluegi'een and yellow —- spontaneous bursts ofcreativity.
Amrish has been painting from
(ध1१1८तों form‘ or expres—
sion, on 5-footj canvases, Amrish childhood, but he was not keen on
Malvankar’s works at Chitrakala Par- public displays. His wife, who wanted
ishath intrigue visitors, pushing them to get rid the paintings that crowded
the house, gave him the push to put
to use their imagination.
“Abstract expressionism isgrowing a show in CKP in 2008.
He was taken aback bythe positive
in India. Usually, the common public
relate better with deﬁnite structures, response and closed down his archibut there is more interest in this I tecture ﬁrm to doart full-time. Priced
genre now,” he says. “It’s the simplest at रें65,00० and above, his works at—
' form of art as the interpretation is tractart-loversjrom Netherlands and
based on each individual’s percep- Dubai.
‘ A “Architecture takes in the
tion, vibe and reality.”
'
complete functionality
Amrish likes to speak
of a borne in its three
. ' all his visitors and ask
dimensions, and
‘ them what they see,
the .aesthetics of
and the interacss
the entire'home,
tions sometimes
including the in—
. r veal fascinating,
teriors. I like cli-.
iiitetpi‘etatioris ;
ents to send me
“Once, there was
pictures of how
a kid 'who per' they have disceived a telescope
played my aint—
from a १ abstract
passionate explosion of
vibrant colhprs — red,

v

splash of green. In
contrast, an adult saw ,-. .
green trees. Chilé
'

dren have no 11min; '

ings,” he exp ins.

८
xx

'

Arnrlsh Malvankar

While Amrish Mal—
vankar was growing

up,’ his artistic incli-

tions to their‘imagi‘
'
nations were limited
to doodling and practising landnation, unlike adults,” saysAmrish.
The theme of the series is Rem- . scapes. Even when hewanted to purnants, but he does not depict mere sue art education, he had to take the
leftovers; he captures what has al- closest alternative -architecture. To
ways been there and needs tobe seen. indulge his creative urges, he would
“When my ﬂight was descending in visit the art school on campus of JJ
Bengaluru, I noticed these criss-cross School of Architecture and try to
pastures and their different hues in study their techniques. “ I learned a
the sunlight. This bird’s-eye view of lot from their textbooks and assignthe city was a small butprofound mo- ments. I would try to pick up nument and sparked something within. ances and ﬁner strokes,” he says. .
I developed on it, and painted lines
Amrish Malvankar’s series Remwith textures. I tried to capture the
nants will be on display at Chicomposition of living,” he says.
trakala Praishath till Sunday
Thoughthe motivation came from
there, he mostly thinks on canvas and

follows wherever the brushleads him.
a. N“ “- V‘A

A, ,.

— Seam Nasal!

e.M... ५ ८७,५८४: ८८3६- cw." mmmﬁWde.

अ

at

..

