CREATIVE PROTEST BY I RAIPUR GROUP
"What ?

Another play on environment by Rajpur Group ?“

You may ask.

Well,

if

ever there was a need for a play on "sookha" it is now, when South, West and North India are
trying to recover him one of the worst droughts of the century. For some States it is the third
consecutive year of, drought. In Rajasthan and Gujarat this last summer tube-wells went so
deep they were actually mining fossile water thousand years old. Humans-Cultivations—Animals:
who, what suffered most ? And no use blaming the sun, or "el nino" the mysterious hot current
from South America. Man is largely to blame for the. deterioration .of the climate by his deforestation- and mining. 'forthe preventive measures not taken and, once drought is there, for the
mismanagement of a drought situation.

Rajpur Group is presenting here a play “SOOKHI DHARTI. PYASA MAN” elaborated
in Rajpur during the month of December 87 with a group of participants from Rajpur, Dehradun
Ujjain and Delhi under the direction of Hafeez Khan from Ujjain and the on—the-spot creation of
the script by Ava'desh Kumar, 3 Dehradun writer. With the coordination by Vasant Dedhia, a
dancer from Bombay who also kept everybody fit with morning eXercises, everyone worked extremely hard to prepare this one-hour play in three weeks.

"Sookhi Dharti. Pyasa Man". a project supported by the Ministry of Environment and
Forest. Govt. of India, is a play dealing with man’s deeds and misdeeds in a village facing a
droUght situation, in a vigorous, fearless and sometimes comic ways. The Rajpur actors
give
५ a powerful rendering of the villagers' resistance to political manipulations, simply trying
to survive. Two of them, Kama and Sanjay have already drawn much applause for the strong
charac~
ters they portrayed in the previous Rajpur Group productions. One the other hand,
the actors
from Ujjain. who had all acted in the Mauni Baba’s production of Ramayana there. infused
this play with a wonderful sense of “Good versus Evil“. If Evils have been shown
in the play
goodness and courage have been shown too. leaving a hope for the future.

_ Rajpur Group. a registered society, was started in 1979 by a handful of friends,
artists
and musicians from Rajpur and Dehradun. to organise the Rajpur Summer Festival,
a three-days
. open-air Festival gathering every year thouSands of spectators to watch
professional troupes.
folk dancers, mimes, musicians, films, quawali, nautanki dra’ma. etc--.,
from several parts of
,lndia. as well as the drama and dance productions prepared with Rajpur children
under professional directors during two-weeks workshops preceding the Festival,
In the last 5 years the

dramas created for the ' Festival have been on environment themes.

Wh'y .7 It ’so happene

d that
five years ago the air pollution became so bad that one couldn't breathe,
and the hills around
Doon Valley were hidden from sight by a thick blanket of smoke.
far sheer survival we
became _aware _ of environment problems. Someth ing had to be done. SoSo,
‘we did, in our own field
as creative artists and with the sympathy and support of the Dehradu
n public and the Press.

"Devtaon ki Ghatti", "Uth Jaag Musafir“, " Ek Per Ki Kahani"

, "Kutta Furaan and now
"Sookhi Dharti, Pyasa Man” were the plays prodUCed in the
last 5 years, with original scripts
soonto be published for a wi der use by other groups elsewhere.
"

"Sookhi Dharti, Pyasa Man". our first winte’r produCtion.
is presented this month of
January 88 in several places including Rishikesh, Dehrad
un and New Delhi-

We thank you for your interest and support -

Jagdish and Florence Rastegi
Rajpur Group, 219-Rajpur Road, Dehradun (U.P.)

