only in white were designated shvetambara and the ones without any cloth (completely
nude) were called digambara. Mandodari, the wife of Havana, wore sari and blouse
which were painted with beautiful designs and landscapes. Such dresses were called
Chitranta (i. e., 'painted costume'). Kunti and Madri, the wives of Pandu, put on
embroidered dresses with zari work which were termed as hiranyadrapi or hiranyape-

sham (i. e., 'golden dress’)

Brassiere was introduced for the first time during the

Epic period where it was called Stanpatta.

During the Budhist period

(6th century BC ) the women wore three pieces

of costume : Vasasa (sari), Stanpatta (bra; and Uttariya (cloak). Men were satisfied

only with two pieces of dress : Adhivasa ( dhoti, Iungi or tehmad) and Upavasana
(cloak or shawl). Turbans were introduced now which eventually became very pOpular_
The railings and the gateways of the Bharhut and Sanchi stupas depict hundreds and
thousands of men and practically all of them are wearing some kind of ushnisha

(turban) each differing in design and style from the other. Shunga period has truly been
called the 'era of turbans’. Women wore turbans on special ceremonial occasions
lndrani put on a silk turban.
The sixth century B.C. witnessed the discovery of transparent cotton cloth.

The costume propared in Banaras were soft, delicate, pretty and transparent. These were
called Kashikuttam (made in Kashi,. All his life Gautam Budha wore a long, unsitched

dhoti with several folds, manufactured in Kashi and on his mahaparinirvana his
bodily remains were covered in Kashikuttama before they were cremated. The Budhist

and Jain monks and nuns could use only three pieces of costume : Sanghati (lower
garment or dhoti), uttarasanga (cloak, and Antaravasaka (shwal); together these
three formed a chivara. The nuns were permltted to use blouse (Kanchuki) but not bra
( Stanpatta ) .

The main centre of wollen dress were Gandhara, ijab and Kashmir. Dresses

made of rankava (long haired sheep or goat) were imported in great quantity from the
Central Asia, Dresses of Kitaj (ordinary silk) of Maharashtra, Tusser silk of Assam,
and pattaja silk of Kashmir were very much in demand but the ones prepared out of

Chinese silk were extremely beautiful. Costume of Chinese silk, knOWn as China-suya,

were reaching the markets of Central Asia, India, etc., and the road through which the
Chinese silk was exported was itself known as Silk Route. Amrapali, the Courtesan of

Vaishali

(Bihar), used yellow sari of China-suya in whi
ch a number of jewels were

embedded. This special sari was called sattasatika. Petticoats were still not introduced in India, therefore, it was essential to tie the sari with a waistband (mekhala).

Many styles of wearing sari can be witnessed through the sculptured ladies, In hasti
saundika (' like the trunk of an elephant’ ) the front portion was allowed to hang loose;
in shatavallika style the front portion of the sari was taken from under the two legs and
then, tucked at the back ( as is done even today by the traditional Marathi women ) :

and in talayarinda it was wrapped around the body many times (here the sari was
abnormaly '0le i- e., Of, 9 yards, as against the normal 5 yards Sari).

