water“. Now the brassiere became an integral part of the female drass. The head of a
woman, as a rule, was not covered, The purdah (vel) system of the later days was still
unknown. The queens and the princess used jewelled crowns; the Saka, Parthian and
Kushana females put one conical caps; the Hindu women kept their heads bore.

Indian textiles, alongwith its perfumes, spices, handicrafts, steel and host of
other items, were flooding the market of West. The transparent and thin muslin chadar
(bed sheet), which could easily pass through a finger ring, was in great demand all
over the then civilized world, specially in Rome. Such soft, delicate and fine clothes
were known as hamsa dukula (light as the feathers of a swan). Rajyashri, the sisterprincess of Harshavardhana of Thaneshvar—Kannauj, was virtually mad on these see-

through cotton fabrics, Bana in his Harshachanta (7th century A. D.) has coined a term
magna-shuka (very light & delicate clothes) and the ones still lighter and almost competing the air in weightlessness were known as sparshanumeya or nihsvasharya (weightless

as air). King Harsha wore a cotton dhoti and a cloak studded with precious jewels,
however, during war time he preferred silk kanchuka (Shirt).

Barabana was a multi-layered cotton jacket used mainly by the common
soldiers who could afford steel armour.

It was originally an Iranian dress and was

latter adopted by the Indian toot-solrders with certain modifications. In case it was
stuffed with cotton, it was called kurapasaka.
The Pyjama had its hey-day during the Gupta rule (4th-6th century A. 0.).

Four variants have been notice in the art representation : the one that reached
below the ankle and covered the entire leg and feet was called suta/a; the one that
reached only upto the ankle and kept the feet bare was known as p/nga ; the pyjama
which covered the knee and half of the calf was termed as svasthana; and the one

above the knee, looking like modern halfpant, was designed as chandat/ka.
The Gupta monarchs, as per their depiction on coins, wore a special
coat
(like achakana) which was very tight, almost sticking to the body, was half-sleeved

and had pointed ends (like chakdar jama of Akbar’s period) hanging downwards.
This pyjama was chud/‘dar (ringed). Samudragupta also put on a round flat cap
which ' fitted tightly on his head.
The first 'panty’ was recommended by Kalidasa who prescribes a br
assiere

(stananshuka), a petticoat (bahir-nivasini) and also an under-grament or panty (antarvasini). Dr. Moti Chandra in his book A His:ory of Indian Costumes (p. 34) refe
rs
to a very special, tight-fitting panty for covering the private parts of the female
s.
lnnumerable varieties of dress and costumes are perceptible in the wall
paintings of
Ajanta which is a veritable wardrobe-the skill of costurnier is at
its peak here. And
there was no looking back thereafter.

