Press Focus

TUGHLAO true to Character
most signiﬁcant piece
Girish Karnad's Kannada play ‘TUGHLAQ’ is in many ways the
been translated into many
of dramatic writing in this country in two decades. It has
versions in Urdu and
languages and staged at many places. In Delhi alone at least three
see it staged in Bengali
one in Kannada have been seen. It was gratifying, therefore, to
by KAAL CHAKRA on Sunday night at the Fine Arts Theatre.
The Director Ajoy Chatterjee who plays the main role is able to bring out duality
and the
to Tughlaq’s ideas and personality. He creates a character in which the visionary
eccentric are constantly present and visible. It is a well conceived piece of characterization
and the presentation at times is moving. The setting by Ajit Dutta and Mani Shahani is
functional and near. Asit Kumar Mitra's lighting is effective. On the whole it is very
creditable for an Amateur group to present such a difﬁcult play with such seriousness and
devotion.
—S T A'TES MA N

Among the theatre groups staging plays in Bengali, Kaal Chakra is among the
more popular set and certainly one which stages plays very regularly .
Jabaab Chaai is played on an almost empty stage with the very clever use of lights
and Arun Banerjee played the role with considerable sensitivity creating an atmosphere
which kept the viewer absorbed till the very end. It is a diﬂicult role .._ ...and he performed it exceptionally well.

It is fairly unconventional to

they are neither easily conceived nor easily enacted.
equally good theatre

have one character plays for

Jabaab Chaai was an exception and

—— I N D IA N EX PR E SS

.

Kaal Chakra a leading cultural club of capital celebrated its annual show by present-

ing two Bengali Plays Jabaab Chaai & Mohan-Jo-daro.
I

Mohan-jo-daro—rcnderd

exquistely

by a team of fine artists.

The production

which revealed immaculate organisation was almost ﬂawless. The pace was well maintained
throughout. The players delivered their lines in a consistently pleasing tone This alon -

with their brisk movement artfully synchronised on the limited space of the ista e biou it
in at times the lyric charm of a ballet. Never a movement dull it was excellgent draia
and that too all packed in the course of a single hour.
,
~ DEMOCRATIC WORLD

