कालचक्र के साहसिक प्रयास-----

राजधानी के प्रसिद्ध बंगला शौकिया रंगमंच मण्डली कालचक्र ने… .... -०जिबाबचई
'मोहन-जो-दस तथा गिरीश कन्नड़ के तुगलक" का बंगला रूपान्तर मंचस्थ किया ।...अरूण
राय के नाटक 'जबाब चाहीं एक पात्रीय नाटक है.... ..अजय चटर्जी के निर्देशन में दर्शकों को
ऐसा जान पड़ता है कि मंच पर अनेक पात्र हैं । नायक के जीवन के विभिन्न पहलुओं को बडी

सजीवता के साथ प्रस्तुत किया है. …..सब मिलाकर यह एक पात्रीय नाटक बड़ा जटिल तजुर्वा था ।
उ-जनयुद्ध

Kaal Chakra staged three short Bengali Plays at the Fine Arts Theatre.

The ﬁrst,

Naroker Adhishwar or the “Overlord of Hell" attempts to stress the petty self-interests
dominating our elections. The performance was marked by good team work and accom-

plished acting Arun Roy’s Jabaab Chaai (we want an answer) a one-character play about
a displaced peasant from East Pakistan. Arun Banerjee who acted ‘the Man’ is certainly
an actor with considerable range and control and he was able to sustain interest. The last

play Bhajo Kerosene by Rajat Ghosh is a humourous satire on people in a queue for
Kerosene. It has sum amusing situations and characters. The Production of all the three
plays was tight and smooth.
—STATE S M AN

Dipak Sen’s Ramleela produCCd by Kaal Chakra and presented at the Fine Arts
Theatre last week, falls into a deliberate design which also makes
tantalising play.

it the season’s

most

Its anti-heroic base is clothed in a form which itself provides the enter-

tainment as it prods and arouses both shoek and humour. With skilful direction and loving
care to details Ajoy Chatterjee injected drama in 3 every moment of the play.
the characters and

situations had

clarity and imagination which made

happenings ﬂow with spontaneity and in the process

to acquire a distinct identity.

His grasp of

the serio-comic

even the ordinary characters seemed

If it also registered the ﬁerce chemistry of passion by which

that woman became the only woman, it was because of the potentially powerf'ull actress

Minoti Chatterjee who with her outbursts of hatred and bitterness interspersed with f1 ivolity
demonstrated her range and command of the basic emotions. Acting was of uniform excellence and to pick only few, Priyabrata Roy as the harassed but hopeful
writer rnade an instant success of his serio-comic role.

Yatra propereitor-

Pratip Bhowmik as the toothpaste

hawker-cum-Lakshman,—was even one up and practically brought the house

Bhattacharya’s Light-design suited the mood and temper and Monti
appropriate music.

down.

Ajoy

Adhikary provided

—H I ND U S TAN TIMES

