Dipak Sen’s Bengali play Ramleela presented by Kaal Chakra under Ajoy Chatterjee’s
direction at the Fine Arts Theatre in New Delhi on Sunday night, has an interesting treat-

ment of the age old epic.

Instead of showing the Ramayana episode, the author takes off

from there and brings out the misery of the poor actors
Ramleela in a small town.

The play has an interesting

of

a jatra company

ﬂuid structure and the two levels

performing

of the theme have

been woven well using a couple of Ramleela scenes imaginatively enacted with the required
ﬂavour of Jatra in a controlled manner. There are also a number of telling digs at the
current craze for bedroom scenes and cabaret dances in the contemporary commercial
theatre of Bengal.
The production was neat and smooth with restrained movement and a sense of
timing. Ajit Dutta’s simple set, consisting of a big banyan tree as the stage for a rural
performance was pleasing and effective, as was the lighting by Ajoy Battacharya.
The play with a large cast also deserves to be commended for the very good teamwork. Mi noti Chatterjee as the poor but outspoken prostitute Bela gave a very accomplished
performance . She has an expressive face and can render quick changes of mood and feeling

with case and abandon.

Priyabrata Roy as Khitu, the crafty owner of the troupe held the play together with
his confident acting. Mention may also be made of Pratip Bhowmik as Bipin and Pronab
Dey as Banka.
— S TATES MAN
There are plays with a freshness that never state J.B. Priestley

An inspector Calls

is one such durable

play and its, no wonder that it continues to be a favourite (among
foreign plays) of the Indian Stage. The Bengali adaptation—Thana Thekey Ashchi—
presented by Kaal Chakra at Fine Arts Theatre is a satisfactory transcreation in that it
keeps to the play wright's intent and wears the Bengali robe well.
Ajoy Chatterjee who directed the play

grappled with its theatrical reality with

varying degrees of success.

Pristley’s Inspector is a neutral character as he is a catalyst
for truth—and Loknath Roy in the role made his nasty presence felt now and them...

Proshenjit Lahiri gave ﬂashes of good acting.
— HINDU STAN TIMES

mum-mumm-

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
KAAL CHAKRA takes the

opportunity

to offer its grateful

thanks for the invaluable services and co-operatz'on received from

all Advertisers, Members oft/2e Press,

Wellwislters and Printers.

स्था

