About Our Selves
Years back some distinguished artists of Delhi and New Delhi pledged
for service of the Nation through the accumulation, neither wealth nor riches,

but the experience they could achieve in stage-art so long since their boyhood.
These artists jointly and sincerely lit the ﬂame by means of its maiden perf’ormance “JYOTSE JYOT J'ALE” in 1961 and since the moment they have
repeatedly staged “GHARONDA; NADlR SHAH DURRANI; PYAS AUR
AANSOO; JEEO AUR JEENE DO & HAKIMJI”, every play touching one
or the other social deﬁciency, originally knit in sequence, development, dialogues & depiction. Generally these dramas were staged in the aid of the
needy associations and organisations. They have been too much obligatory
to the Society as the Society could get the opportunity of organising shows to
their cause.
The artists feel proud of contributing Rs. 4000/- towards national cause
also, in time of need when Pakistan aggressed our Mother land.

Our wealth
lity and thus can
can also root out
mind we planned

is in the villages, where from we can achieve economic stabistrengthen the multiprojects in urban and rural ﬁelds and
the differences of caste, creed and race. With this thing in
a three act progressive play “Dharti kz' Muskan” and having

sketched it in black and white, it was staged at Modinagar in January’ 69,
Two shows were organised.

In February 69 again two Shows were organised

at Sapru House, New Delhi. In between the period Feb. to May’ 69, Hakirnji
was repeated, which was too much liked by our well-wishers. But our
sympathisers were too much anxious to enjoy Dharti ki Kuskan again.

Again two

shows were organised at Modinagar in Aug’ 69 on the 68 th. birthday
of our
Chief Patron Rai Bahadur Gujar Mal Modi Managing Director
, Modi Enterprises. And now we are obliging our Delhi & New Delhi sympath
isers on 10th.
October’69 at Sapre House, New Delhi on the auspicious occassion of Gandhi
Centenary Celeberations in the Capital. The play is based upon rural uplift and national integrity, which to the best of our knowledge has been made
compact.

Perfect is the Almighty, man is to err. We seek your patronage
for
furtherance in our noble cause and hope to get as usual.

A M A TE U R
A R T I S TS

ASSOCIATION (Regd .)
DE L H |

