MILLENNIUM P O ST

[glitics inseparable from Street theatre
. q~,-r.t<..-J ......, .i दृ

‘An artis is not a solitary genius or a creator.

He is just an intermediary who gives what
he takes from society,’ says Sudhanva
olitics cannot be separated

for short) is a New Delhi-based the—

atre company. Having done some 8,500
performances of nearly 100 plays, the
group specialises in left-wing street
theatre in Hindi.
“Street theatre is about giving primacy to politics. Don’t do street theatre
ifyou don’t have politics. we at Ianam
don’t deﬁne it just by its form, but also
(the resistance)’ was about introduc— by its intent. Its biggest resource is
ing people to the nitty»gritties ofstreet imagination of audience,” said Deshtheatre group and how Ianam made the pande, actor and director with Ianam.
. medium as its own.
But making sure that people don’t
Founded in 1973, Jana Natya decipher his message wrong, he added,
Manch (People’s Theatre Front; Ianam “Please remember it cannot be slogan—
eering alone too. Only sloganeering
and attempting to run a message down
people’s throat has neither worked
before, nor will it work in future.”
While distinguishing street play
from other forms, he says that it is an
exact opposite of a play which has Naseeruddin Shah acting, who everyone
admires and loves. “You like Naseerud—
ch him.
from street theatre as it is not

.i d»

I", ’ 43.11 १ mm .5 Edam; ’1५५८८ *4 ﬁnd/lat दृ

८ 1.

m a ५ दृ. c101“ '

uh

just deﬁned by its art but also
by its intent, according to veteran thespians Sudhanva Deshpande
and Moloyashree Hashmi.
At the fourth edition of ‘Lila’s
Prism lecture series’, the talk titled
‘lan Natya Manch: Shaping a pocket

;
In street plays it is just the opposite.
You don’t know us, forget about liking. On the contrary, we interrupt your

“When people ask don't you feel
scared about the things you say so
openly in your play, 1 tell them that
we have our plays in bastis (villages),
industrial areas and in the so called
down-trodden areas. Police and people
with power, they don‘t come to such

life by performing in the middle of the
road. Also, here we want you to watch
us. You vote by your foot in this case,"
said Deshpande.
The group is known for taking on places. A rid hence we are safe.” said
capitalism, deep- rooted patriarchy, and Moloyashree, veteran theatre artiste
cominunalism through plays like ‘Halla and President of Ianam. The evening
Bol’, ‘Machine’, ‘Woh Bol Uthi’, ‘Aurat’ also saw both talking about Founder
of Ianarri Safdar Hashini and his vision
and ‘Dil Maange more Guru ji’.
V,. ..
८ प्रा/ह्य०ब
that is reﬂected in all the plays made
, t“.
.
under the group‘s banner. An actor,
director and communist playwright
Hashmi was murdered in I989.while
performing his famous street play
‘Halla Bol'.
“Safdar was someone unique. Can
you believe he and Rakein Saxena
wrote ‘Machine' in a single day. He
could see the future. He was always ,
there to perform for workers and
would do all that he could to support

genius. He is no creator. He is just an

intermediary who gives what he takes
from society. It‘s iust that the form is
. different
When asked about pedagogy and
how to make sure that an actor is
politically sensitised, Deslipande said.
their movement." said Moloyoshree.
"Make them witness the lives of peowife of Safdar who to her credit have
had performed ‘Machine‘ over 1000 ple living in the margins by walking
through the streets of villages.
times now.
“This is what we do with our actors
Deshpande. who is also author of

हैं
x;

. '४ a:

2

1

1

the book "Ilieatre of the streets: The
Ian Natya Manch Experiencc‘ was very

while we are in the process of making

blunt in saying that “art can‘t change
the world. especially if it's a Bollywood
movie." He einphasi/ed on the deﬁni-

plays. and it works." he added.
The I ila Lecture series includes 15
seminal conversation spread across
August to Deceiiihei‘ 3010 featuring $0

tion of artist and said: “You should
understand that an artist is no solitarv

trailbla/ing practitioners ofalternative
institution 'blllltllng.
PH

