ABOUT THE PLAY
The play is an adaptation of Russian Author, Mikhail Zoshchenko's short story Hearts
ofThree ; being privileged to be in the anthology of Russian short stories. It's a realistic
drama with the farce element of suppressed emotions; seeing the minute particles
under a magnifying glass. It deals with the individuals who are constantly in search of
bliss in the vaccum of fast life style and a love—triangle arising from the existing three
hearts in a scattered manner. The play is a fast roller—coaster ride ofemotions and in the
due course media brings a fresh air ofconfusions.

ABOUT THE DIRECTOR

Neeraj Wahal, born on 1 1‘h April, 1972 and Brought up in Delhi; exhibits multi—faced
talent by being an Actor, Designer, Director and Writer. Pursued diploma in acting
from Shri Ram Centre's Acting Course and is a graduate in Design 85 Direction from
National School ofDrama.
Has worked with eminent directors i.e. Habib Tanvir, Ranjeet Kapoor, B.V. Karanth,
Ratan Thiyam, Naseeruddin Shah, Mohan Ajashe, Prassana etc. Worked as a
professional actor with Shri Ram Centre and had been associated as a faculty of Safar
Maina Repertory companies.

Has directed several plays to name a few 'Mock Doctor, Seduction, Bhagwad Ajjukam
Chaupat Raja etc. Has also written several scripts for plays, tele—serials and a few
movies, has worked as a sound and light Designer.
Has been active in theatre since several years currently, part of the acting institute 'The
First Bell' and involved in a research project in seeking the complimentary aspects
between theatre and education. thus, working with the schools i.e. Vasant Valley
School, Delhi Public School (Faridabad 8C R. K. Puram), Modern School etc.

० “All the experience at SRC whether sweet or sour have made me
use my creative energies in a better manner both in theatre and
life . ”
—Tanmay Kant

'" It has been a wonderful experience getting trained at SRC, SRC

has opened up new horizons for me in the field of theatre and has
enhanced my personality as a whole"
—Pranshu Ghosh

° "1 got SRC as a nursery of my dreams and a kick to start up.
I hough days were small, we as a team tried to concentrate whole of
our workings in this production.
—Chandra Shekhar

० "SRC अभिनय क्षमता को निखारने में सक्षम है । ये मेरा 2 साल का

अनुभव है ।'
-Amresh Kumar

