ggq<
/ \\

६८८३

Shri Ram Centre For Performing Arts
SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORMING ARTS grew out of what was
originally known as Indian National Theatre, heralding a revival in the
Indian Cultural scene. Shri Ram Centre is one of the leading Cultural
Organisation in India and has all along been striving hard to nurture and
develop talent in the field of Performing Arts and our programmes are
organised to achieve this end.
Y
N
A
P
M
O
C
Y
R
O
T
R
E
P
E
R
E
R
T
A
E
H
S RCT

In 1980 the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre
Repertory Company, the aim being to produce meaningful plays by well
known play-wrights to create an involvement with theatre amongst
theatre lovers. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, SRC Repertory
undertakes trips to other parts of the country as well. Our Repertory
Company has the honour of working with eminent Directors like
Rajendra Nath, Ranjit Kapoor, B.V. Karanth, Habib T'anvir, B.M.Shah,
Piyush Mishra, Suresh Sharma, Roysten Abel, Sanjay Upadhyay, Bapi
Bose, Avtar Sahni, Chittaranjan Tripathi, Urrnil Kumar Thapliyal &
Mushtaq Kak.

ACTI N G CO U RS E
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for
Performing Arts conducts a two year part time training programmes. The
1 st year is devoted to in-depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the
2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on
Indian—classical, experimental, Western and modern-Indian dramas.

This helps to prepare a professional team of actors to sustain the Hinditheatre's future. Students who complete the course with exel lent grades
are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School of
Drama or the Media.

SR c CHILDREN THEATRE wb‘i’iksriop '
T'o inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage of India,

particularly amongst younger generations, SRC has been organizing
production oriented Children Theatre Workshop every year and this

endeavour has been widely welcomed by one and all , including media.

ANNUAL SHRI RAM MEMORI‘AL LECTURES

.

The Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lecture Series was started in
1986 to give due recognition to important theatre luminaries and their

profound contribution in enriching the Indian Theatre Movement. This
Lecture Series has featured such theatre luminaries as Utpal Dutt,Habib
Tanvir, Vijaya Mehta, Shiv Ram Karanth, Badal Sircar, Vijay T'endulkar
etc.

८

The Centre has also published these lectures for theatre lovers and
others as an authentic documentation of Indian Theatre Movement.

