Kasauli Art Centre
In the last ﬁfteen years the annual workshops have brought to Kasauli very
different kinds of artists from all over the country. They have lived and worked
together in a house for a duration of about three weeks. Younger artists have had
the oportunity to work in close proximity with older artists and to informally exchange views, both creative and intellectual.
‘
Since 1979 eminent artists from England, West Germany and France have
attended the workshops. This international aspect of the camps has led to some
very close interaction and relationships. In 1981 the workshop idea so impressed
the German participant, that he organized a workshop in Braunschweig to which
seven Indian artists were invited, and the following year seven German artists
came to India to work with us.

7

Another special feature of the artists‘ workshops is to invite art historians and
critics to give lectures on a wide range of subjects. Seminars have been held on
issues relating to art and ideology. Persons from other creative disciplines have
also come to the camps. On two occasions a theatre group has come from Delhi
and done a workshop as well as a seminar. Important ﬁlm directors and ﬁlm
critics interested in the visual arts have organized, with the Journal ofArts and
Ideas, a seminar showing signiﬁcant ﬁlms from world cinema.
In 1984 an artists‘ camp of young sculptors was held in Kasauli to which

Seigfried Neuenhausen, a well known German sculptor, also came. A year later
an exhibition of seven young sculptors was held in Delhi, and was hailed as the
most signiﬁcant breakthrough in sculpture in the last few decades.
In 1988, Ensemble ‘86, a group of young professionals from the National
School of Drama, New Delhi, rehearsed and performed two plays at the Kasauli
Art Centre: Kalidasa's Shakuntalam, designed and directed by Prasanna, and
Prernchand's Atma Ram, adapted and directed by Dinesh Khanna. Ensemble ‘86

also conducted a two—week workshop with young theatre enthusiasts from
Himachal Pradesh who were sponsored by the Department of Languages and
Culture of the Himachal Pradesh Government.
.
In May 1988, a workshop for young artists from Himachal Pradesh was organ-

ized by the Kasauli Art Centre and conducted by Nalini Malani. In June 1988,
Geeta Kapur organized a week-long seminar titled A Critique of Contemporary
Culture at Kasauli in which artists. ﬁlm-makers, theatre workers interacted with
scholars from the academic world.
During May-June 1989, Vivadi held a theatre workshop at Kasauli Art Centre
and produced two plays. Ghare Baire and Nayika Bhed. A seminar titled Representations of Women was organized by Kum Kum Sangarl to accompany the
workshop.

President: Prof. K.G. Subrarnanyan, Vice-President :Prof. B.N. Goswamy,
Treasurer है K.V.K. Sundaram, Secretary : Vivan Sundaram,
Members : Prof. Gulam Mohammed Sheikh, Romi Khosla, Geeta Kapur,
Dr. Anuradha Kapur
3/9 Shantiniketan, New Delhi-1 10021
Camp address: Ivy Lodge. Upper Mall. Kasauli (H.P.)

