Pt. Satyanarayan Kavitratna
([796 Dam/afar)
This production of Utfam Raw/166477717 not only reminds us of the greatness of the poet
Bhavabhuti, but also of Pt. Satyanarayan Kaviratna who translated this play into Hindi without

compromising the 'greatness' of the original. Kaviratna ji died early, at the age of thirty nine. He
was born in 1879 and left for heavenly abode in 1918. But even in this short span of life, he made
his mark in Hindi literature and Indian theatre. He is considered to be the last great poet of
ijb/Jm/m. There was a traditon of writing B/meargz‘m (lyrics of bees) in Hindi Bhakti-Poetry, in

which gopis of Vrindavan send their messages to Krishna through a bee. Pt. Satyanarayan
Kaviratna wrote Bbmmmu’um, an important collection of ij/y/my/m poetry. Acharya Ramchandra
Shukla appreciates Pt. Kaviratna, as a person totally engrossed in the tradition of Braj. Bra} is an
area where Krishna-bhakti became a way of life. In his classic work, Hit/WU qf Hz'ﬂdz' literature,
Acharya Shukla wrote about Shri Kaviratna: 'His Brajbhasha was of day to day life. His language
of poetry was not written in traditional language of Brajbhasha poetry, but in common man's
language. He used many similes and analogies, which are part of common man's language.

Apart from that, he was an important poet. Pt. Kaviratna will be remembered as a great translator.
He translated all three works of Bhavabhuti, Uri/21” Ramona/1221117, Mala/2‘1 [Wad/M1141”, and Ala/1471112

Chant/11111n Brajbhasa and Hindi together1. e. the prose of Bhavabhuti was translated1nto Hindi,

and, poetry 1nto Bra)bhasha Pt. Ixav1ratna had
an amazing command over Sam/ya metre in
Hindi. He also used to recite poetry in this
metre (Savaiya) and mesmerize elite as well as

the village folk.
It is not an accidental coincidence that Pt.

Kaviratna translated Bhavabhuti's .wﬁ/oéas in
' smug/z. It is insthis form, it is more creative and
practical in terms of rendering it into a

performance. One can realize the beauty of
Brajbhasha poetry and the depth of
Bhavabhuti's poetry in this translation of Pt.
Kaviratna.

Because of the ram/ya metre, the

musical rendering is smooth in this translated
version of Uz‘tzzm Rama Clym‘iz‘am.

Bahvabhuti complained that his talent as a great
writer was not appreciated in his life time. It
was valid complaint. But had there not been a
translator like Pt. Kaviratna, his (Bhavabhuti's)

greatness would not have been appreciated
today in theatre.
But for Kaviratna's
transcreation of this masterpiece of Bhavahuti
into Brajbhasha, the contemporary Hindi

readers and theatre lovers would not have
realised the greatness of Bhavabhuti.
- Ravindra Tripathi

,.

.

. ८
१ '

a
प

., ,_
"३ i

.०

.
'

