Playing with marriage Morality and Love
Director's Note
India has a long tradition in theatre practice as well as playwriting. But it was not an unbroken
tradition. We had a past but no practice for several centuries. Then came the political
independence of India. And with that the need to construct a national identity. Because of these
reasons I suppose, contemporary theatre directors in India have had an enduring engagement with
the notion of Indianness, probably much more than that of theatre directors from other
nationalities.

Most initial efforts in shaping Indian theatre however, concentrated on developing a style: An
Indian style of production as opposed to the western style of production. Even though I was as
much engaged with the realization of this notion as others, I had disagreed with the stylists. I did
not think that a mere style of production would lead to the shaping of Indian theatre. I also did not
agree with the way contemporanity was given a go by during that time.

Shaping contemporary India is not easy. Skisms exist here. They exist not because of a mere
stylistic divide between two sets of Indian theatre directors, but they exist in reality. India is getting
divided, day—by—day, into several contradictory tendencies. Our perception of Indian theatre,
hence depends on, which segment of India, you have chosen to place yourself in. I have chosen to
’

'-

be a vernacular theatre director. For me, the
language, the text and the people of the land, in
which I am performing matters the most. I
strongly believe that the shape of Indian theatre

is largely decided by the situation of Indian
Theatre.

Many people think that my choice of being a
vernacular theatre director, leads me towards

parochialism. I beg to disagree. I am a Kannada
theatre director. But I have done a great deal of
theatre in Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil, Punjabi and

English as well. I treat Hindi exactly like I treat
my language Kannada. I would like this

production of Uffam Rama/9517M},- to be shown
to folks who watch Ramlila every year. Theatre

cannot be and should not be complicated. The
play can be complicated. Theatre should always
strive to make the play accessible. I have tried to
make this sophisticated play, Uz‘z‘am Ramac/mrif/y,
accessible to the Indian audiences.

No, I am not negating the importance of the
enlightened. I am sure the enlightened

audiences will also agree with my perception of
Indianness. What sort of a model we are
projecting at the national level P What is the
National School of Drama doing, for example?
Over the years, the School has become an

