ADAL

B AA D A i.
by

S h r i B i ro o M u k h op a d h a y a

A heavy tropical downpour throughout the better part of the night,
a coincidence and a mistaken identity-and there are the makings of a hillarious
comedy in the hands of the playwright Biroo Mukheriee.

Souren Nag is a leading lawyer of the town of Madhusudanpur,
which is connected to a railway station of the same name about a couple of

miles from the town proper.

The available tranSport is by rickshaw and

bullock cart.
Nag is also Secretary of the local high school, is happily
married to Reba and is at the moment hosting his young sister-in-law Rekha
at whose wedding some time back he and his wife were unable to be present
and were, therefore, not acquainted with his brother-in-law. Nag has invited
this relative tor a visit and has also directed a new teacher at the school to
report for duty on the same day.
The brother-in-Iaw is to arrive by the
evening train and the teacher by the later train. Nag has posted his durwan,
Tiwari. to receive the former and his carter All Haq, to receive and escort
the latter to the teachers' mess.
As chance would have it, Jayanto', the brother-in-law and Arniyo, the
new teacher, arrive by the late night train. Since the guest failed to arrive
as scheduled, Tiwari had gone back to report and was ordered to go again and
meet the later train.
Both he and Ali Haq lose their way in the utter
darkness and deluge of the heavy rainstorm.
So the two arrivals find no
escort. Arniyo sets out himself in the pelting rain, is met halfway by Tiwari
who mistakes him for the brother-in-law and is escorted to Nag's house
Where Nag and his wife receive him cordially, ﬁrst to his amazement and
then to his consternation. - He falls sick, faints and the sister-in-Iaw is

introduced into the room which they chain up from outside. Rekha is horriﬁed
to discover the mistake.
But the room is locked ‘and the hosts have retired
to their room at the far end of the house, well content.
Jayanto in the meantime seeks the help of the stationmaster, who

provides him with an escort to the house of Nag. where he is naturally taken
He is puzzled
for the teacher and despatched to the school teachers' mess.
by the curious manner of his reception and as the truth dawns on him, turn°
The teachers. out of fear, lock him up in a room.
furious and violent.
To know how the tangle is resolved and all ends well, you must wait
tor the end to unfold itself on the stage.

