आँ

:

५

Balwant Thakurposmg with new

pirants.

Natrang bé1 'ns summer theatre ‘
workshop for new aspirants
Excelsior Correspondent

rants/entrants of theatre. Such with lot of conﬁdence and
workshops will now be the reg- sharpens the communication
skills in addition to the over-all .
ciﬁc aim of channelizing the personality development. This
overﬂowing energy of youth has been the experience that
towards positive activities spe- people related to theatre and arts
cially related to artistic creativi- excel in every sphere of life.
He further observed that
ty and innovation.
Soon Natrang is going to most of the youngsters only do
start separate workshops for day dreaming and never venture
children for which the advance to put their best in achieving
registration has already been excellence in life.
The participants of this
started. In addition to this
Natrang is also starting music workshop included Bhisham
classes in which the lovers of Gupta, Mohit Kaul, Ashish
music will have the rarest Dhar, Akshit Kaul, Brijesh
Sharma,
Kaushal
opportunity to learn under great Avtaar
masters of music. All these new Manhas, Rohit Singh, Nikhil
initiatives are being taken by Dubey, Shaan Khan, Shubham
Natrang is to provide a total pro- Khajuria, Gautam Sharrna,
fessional training environment Sahil Kumar, Jyoti Kant
in Jammu aimed at giving a new Sharma, Gautam Kumar, Bhanu
Singh,
Sukhvinder
life to the cultural movement of Pratap
Singh, Aman Kapoor, Tanvi
the city. _
Describing utility of such Bhat, 'I‘anu Sabarwal, Rahul
workshops and training pro- Gupta, Aishwarya Sathe, Rajan
grammes, Balwant Thakur said Thakyal, Mahikshit Singh, Yash
that theatre equips a participant Manhas and Shivam Singh. /

JAMMU, May 19: Summer ular feature in Natrang with spe-

Theatre Workshop for new acting aspirants began here today at
Natrang Studio Theatre with the
lighting of the traditional lamp
by Natrang Director Balwant
'I‘hakur.
This ﬁfteen day workshop
will be conducted by Rahul
Singh, a young actor and director of Natrang, who recently
completed his training in direction from National School of
Drama, New Delhi. This workshop is being supervised by
Neeraj Kant and coordinated by
Mohd Yaseen.
In his inaugural address
Director Balwant Thakur said
that Natrang responding to the
growing demand of having regularActing training and learning
opportunities in Jammu, has
taken the initiative to conduct
proper professionally designed
Acting workshops for new aspi-

