PAN C HAM VA l D I C - ,
The theatre group Pancham Vaidic was originally
formed with a view to bringing forth ’Naathabati
Anaathabat’ on stage. But as days went by, the
group widened its span of activity, and arranged
play—reading evenings of ’Raja Oidipous’ and
’Chand Baniker Pala' by Sombhu Mitra. Sales
proceeds of one such evening, amounting to a
little over Rs. 25,000- was donated for the cause of
Bhopal Gas victims.
With the assistance and active participation of
three other theatre groups, naming, Nandikar,
of
production
Samstab, . the
and
Theatron

’Dashachakra’ (an adaptation of lbsen’s ’An Enemy
of the People’) was launched in September 1985. It
brought back Sombhu Mitra to the stage as director
after a long lapse. He played the lead role too. The
entire s‘ales proceeds from all the six shows that
were held, amounting to about Rs. 1,05,000/- were

donated to the Prime Minister's Fund for Relief to
- the Cyclone victims of Bangladesh.
It also has run an institution to impart necessary
training on different aspects of theatre, to new
incumbents.
Under the guidance of Sombhu Mitra, it produced
Tagore’s ‘Raja’ (The King of the Dark Chamber) in
1987. In a Tagore Drama Festival organised by the
Sangeet Natak Akademi in Delhi in 1987, 'Raja’

presented by Pancham Vaidic won the general
acclaim.
Pancham Vaidic tried its hand in Telefilm with
’Subha’, a short story of Tagore, produced in
Bengali for the Calcutta Doordarshan. This
production was subsequently selected for
National Network of Doordarshan, and thereafter

having been chosen the representative Telefilrn
over

was

shown

all

countries in 1990.
The second full

length

play

from

India,

the

based

SAARC

on

the

Mahabharata, written by Saoli Mitra, naming,
’Kathaa Amrita Samaan’ was staged in January,
1990.

In November 1990, Badal Sarkar’s ’Tringsha Satabdi’
was produced with a cast comprising of the
trainees of the institute.

The idea of producing ’Naathabati Anaathabat’ in
Hindi was conceived quite earlier. In fact it was as
early as 1983, that is, just after the play had its
premiere in Bengali, when requests started
pouring in from different parts of the country for
doing it in Hindi so that the message of the play
could be disseminated more widely. In the realm
of theatre, it often so happens that the problem of
language stands in the way of proper appreciation.
Here, since it is the spoken word that plays a major
role in this play, the importance of language
cannot be underestimated. On the other hand,
the subject being essentially Indian, the play can
be enacted in any Indian language in relevant part
of the country. Translating as well as acting in
Hindi being comparatively easier for us, we have
recourse to that. Nevertheless, if we could, we

would do it in Tamil or Marathi, or any other
language for that matter. Incidentally, Shri Ashoke
Sahane has already translated the text in Marathi.
All our endeavour will prove worthwhile if the
performance can rise upto the expectation of the
audience.

