SOME REACTIONS: L है ,Saoli Mitra lays no claim to complete originality as far
as her analysis and interpretation are concerned. She

candidly expresses her debt to Iravati Karve even
during the performances. The most remarkable thing is
the depth of her creativeness through the medium of
theatre coupled with her desire to be in intellectual
communication with her contemporaries. In terms of
the naturalness of her acting and her easy shifts from
one mood, feeling and also character to another, if I try
to recall for comparison names of stage players I admit

I feel I must cross geographical boundaries.
— S. D. Desai Times of India, A hmedabad : August ’90

It must have been an arduous task for Saoli Mitra
to hold interest for so long with only off-stage sound
effects and a musical chorus to aid her. But not for a
moment did attention flag in a performance that must
rank with other solo masterpieces by Ingrid Bergman,
Liv Ullrnan and her own mother in. Aparajita.
— The Statesman, Calcutta 22.8.1983

But perhaps the most interesting part of her
performance was that despite some very charged
moments she managed to induce in the audience a
critical distance from the character of Draupadi rather
than uncritical emotional sympathy for her. She
seemed to have brought the audience round to
accepting Draupadi’s viewpoint and to take a position
on her behalf. This again was not mere partisanship for
Draupadi alone but a positive rejection of the values
and attitudes embodied in the various characters. Last
week while commenting upon Bhanu Bharati’s PASHU
GAYATRI, I had briefly discussed the concept of
secular theatre as I understand it. Well, this is it.

NAATHABATI ANAATHABAT is a secular play in the
true sense of the word.
Saoli Mitra’s play especially when performed so well
is not only an aesthetic treat but also a forceful device
for developing a critical approach towards our epics. It
neither robs the Mahabharata of its richness of
characters and events, nor does it manipulate them in
any way. It merely looks at them from a human,

non-religious point of view, and with what devastating
consequences !
— Safdar Hashmi, Economic Times, New Delhi 6. 10. 1985

