Director’s Note
To begin with, I thank Prof. Raj Bisaria — whose initiative it was that led to an
active engagement with “Othello” culminating in a translation ofthe play. It was
during that interaction that the idea of an overlap with a form like Nautanki was
generated. Heightened emotion and music seemed a probable blend ofrendering
a human delemma as complex as this play delves into. During the creation ofthis ,
present piece, I found myselfdrawing a lot from the conversations that took place
with Prof. B i saria which I remain ever so grateful.
However, when the study project with the II year students —- who are the actors
and builders of this piece, “Othello” was not a foreseen choice. The project was
an entry into the existing and active performance forms of Braj . This included
Swang, Nautanki, Phatkebazi, Mach, Rasa, Dangal etc. From the blazing
Charkula to the sandbanks and Tulsi groves. it was journey into a culture that

celebrates each day in its speciﬁc albeit transient glory. It seeks fulﬁllment in the
process of living, where permanence is but an illusion. The natural choice would
be to be part this stream that echoes the romance of Radha and Krishna —- the
eternal quest for completion, ﬁllﬁllment and bliss. This quest is embodied in
“Rang Mahal” where the couch of conjual bliss awaits yearns for the eternal
seekers who are yet to ﬁnd each other. The unworn green bangles, sindoor and
jewellery lay bare a dream that led to Desdemona — and through her to Othello —
both lovelorn and lost in a maze of Iago's mind. The demons that dwell both
within and outside — communities that stifﬂe love, conditioning that traps and
snaps wings of ﬂight. Othello as body connects with his core and entirety when
touched by Desdemona. She is both soul and breath —- the gift of life. It is the
jealousy of the mind that inﬂicts death on this relaionshiop. By killing
Desdemona, Othello snaps all ties with himself and is no more. “He that was
Othello - here I am”. Fear of betryal betrays love and Desdemona ceases to be.
The twilight that she lives is not unlike the uncertainty of dusk that sets in the
hearts of many women who await the night with apprehension and expectation.
Intimacy that encounters not only strangeness but can also grow dangerous. The
touch that is meant to love kills. The oqaueness of embrace confounds
,
with its perennial veil and that is why I begin with Emellia bound to a
f_
woman who is no more.

.
].

