"3 ~ ,; … 2 ,
_
. e _…
Ame Darling Ekbiiaram ३ ३
हु-मर-रा,

\ .
Hanu man Kl Ramayan
Valrniki hasbarely put his pen down बांह? x \
completing his magnificentcreation, the
epic Rarnayan, when he realiseshe has
competition. The sage Naradtells him
that there is a better Ramayan, written by
Hanurnan.Valrrriki is devastated. And when
Hanurnansees Valrniki so upset. what does
hedo? Hanuman KiRarnayan is based
ona short story by Dr Devdutt Pattanaik
published byTulika Books. In thisespecially
commissioned piece the story has been
adapted in nautankr' forrrr(sargeet). It is a
part of the series of short plays foryoung
audiencesusing various theatrical forms.
Wh'2n : Today. iiam
Whore: CLAPCenter, Malad (W)
Chi nta Chhod Chlntamanl
It is the story of afamily where the father
thinkshis progenles are standingat the
threshold of total ruinah'orr.They are
wallowing in self4ndulgence and their
destiny is leadingthem to their inevitable
falL 0nthe otherhand the children think
this is nothing but a generation gap. and
the old man is unable to understand the
situation Is it really a generation gap or a
case of miscomrnunication? And if it is really

Hanuman Kl R IV

of generation gap then who will bridge
gap?
‘Jh3 n: Tunight, 8pm
Wimp:Veer Savarkar auditoriurrr, Shivaii
Park
ShodhPratlshodh
TWothirds a suspenseand one-third
a devilishlyclever thriller, thisplay will
definitely makeyou hold yourbreath.
Believing that he hasplanned the perfect
crime,but unfortunately the dice doesnot
follow his wish and positions are changed in
the dark monsoon night when he is caught
alive but badlyinjured and slipped into a
corria until one dayhe wakes up to realise
there are three sides to a story, his, theirsand
the t ruth.
Wh :n: TonI ght, 745 pm
Where:T'ejpal Hall. GowaliaTank
Ame Darling Ekbllana
Arne Darling Ekbri'ana is a new Gujarati slice of
life drama whichrevolves around a stressful
yet hilarious Gen Y couple. it reflects the
changing needs. wants.dreams and desires
of todays fast pacedsociety and howthey
are stuck between EMI. inflation.family
planning. personallives, careers. relationship,
etc. A rollercoasterride which is bound to
relate to everyone as it managesto reflect
sorrre slice from eachof our lives.
Wh :n Cr Whono : Today. 4 prrr at Bhaidas
Hall, We Parle (W) and 9pm. Zaverben
Sabhagruha. Ghatkopar
Ready Steady Go
Thlsis anbtickling yet errrotional
rollercoaster showcasing the lifeof
the close-knit and yet differently
opinionated Bhattfarrrily. It
beautifully highlights the
struggles. lrmita ti ons .

दृश्य A“

.

dreams and aspiratrorrs of amiddle class
Gui arati householdand successfully
manages to bridge the gap between the two
generations and schools of thought.A play
which will instantly ﬁnd resonance with your
own life.
Wit: it Dr l'Ji: वृ to:Today. 330 pm at
Bharatiya VidyaBhavan auditorium.
Chowpatty and 9pmat Aspee Auditorium,
Marve Road. Malad (W)
Adras hyam
There is a boy inthe city of Ahmedabad, who
claims to see spirits around him. Afterhearing
frequent complains from the boyregarding
his encounterswith various spirits. the father
decides to take him to a psychiatrist for a
consult. After many vigorous sessions of inner
child healingwith the boy. and gathering
all the facts fromthe past and the present
psychiatrist contrives upon a fact that this
a clearcase of a psychological disorder. Just
the time the psychiatrist proves it to be a
psychological disorder. herhusband who
deals with spirits comes inthe pictureto only
prove a fact thatthe spirits the boysees exist.
And he too discloses the facts and storythat
flabbergasts not the farrrily rnerrrbers or his
psychiatrist wife. but the wholeof India
With L‘x Whore: Today, 4 prrr at T'eipal
Hall. Gowalia Tankand 9 prrr at Prabodhan
Thackeray Auditorium. Borivali(W)
Baa TanaHun Kya Rahu
In the story. Mangla Divecha, who has
two children. after herhusband '5death
is shuffling between the two houses of
her sons. Wrthevery month’s shifting and
shufﬂing, she is findingher happiness despite
her two daughter in law'sdaunting nature,
Around the sametime sortie maior events
happen in her life. Decisionsshe takes to deal
with the trauma, perhaps do not brand the
so called societalnorms but definitelyhas
the potential tobring the change inpeople's
percepti on.
Winn:TonightJASpm
८'
What 0: Biraidas Hall.Vile Parle
J,“
.r

