Press Focus
TUGHLAQ true to Character
Girish Karnad’s Kannada play ‘T UGHLAQ’ is many ways the most signiﬁcant piece
of dramatic Writing in this country in two decades. It has been translated into many
languages and staged at many places. In Delhi alone at least three versions in Urdu and
one in Kannada have been seen. It was gratifying, therefore, to see it staged in Bengali by
KAAL CHAKRA on Sunday night at the Fine Arts Theatre.
The Director Ajoy Chatterjee who plays the main role is able to bring out the duality
of Tughlaq’s ideas and personality. He creates a character in which the visionary and the
eccentric are constantly present and visible. It is a well conceived piece of characterization
and the presentation at times is moving. The setting by Ajit Dutta and Mani Shahani is
functional and neat. Asit Kumar Mitra’s lighting is effective. On the whole it is very
creditable for an Amateur group to present such a difﬁcult play with such seriousness and
devorion.
——STATE S MAN
Among the theatre groups staging plays in Bengali, Kaal Chakra is among the more
popular set and certainly one which stages plays very regularly... .
Jabaab Chaai is played on an almost empty stage with the very clever use of lights
and Arun Banerjee played the role with considerable sensitivity creating an atmosphere
which kept the viewer absorbed till the very end. It is a difﬁcult role......and he performed it exceptionally well. It is fairly unconventional to have one character plays for
they are neither easily conceived nor easily enacted. Jabaab Chaai was an exception and
equality gOou theatre...... .
——INDIAN EXPRESS
Kaal Chakra a leading cultural club of capital celebrated its annual show by
presenting two Bengali Plays Jabaab Chaai & Mohen-jo-daro.
...Mohen-jo-daro .... ..renderd exquisitely by a team of ﬁne artists .... ..The production
which revealed immaculate organisation was almost ﬂawless. The pace was well maintained
throughout. The players delivered their lines in a consistently pleasing tone. This alongwith their brisk movement artfully synchronised on the limited space of the stage brought
in at times the lyric charm of a ballet . ...Never a movement dull, it was excellent drama
and that too all packed in the course of a single hour.
—DEMOCRATIC WORLD

कालचक्र के साहसिक प्र यास… . . .
राजधानी के प्रसिध्द बंगला शौकिया रंगमंच मण्डली कालचक्र ने......."ज़बाब चाहा,
'मोहन-जो-दसा' तथा गिरीश कन्नड़ के "तुगलक" का बंगला रूपान्तर मंचस्थ किया z .- .........अरुण
राय के नाटक "ज़वाब चाहीं ...... …एक पात्रीय नाटक है . . ... अजय चैटर्जी के निर्देशन में दर्शकों
को ऐसा जान पड़ता है कि मंच पर अनेक पात्र हैं । नायक के जीवन के विभिन्न पहलूओं को बडी

सजीवता के साथ प्रस्तुत किया है ।,..॰..सब मिलाकर यह एक-पात्रीय नाटक बड़ा जटिल तजुर्बा
था । ..

…जनयूग

