८
डbे .
j. -.
F

i . ,
W
An English theatre bonanza!

, है…

७ N- y.

Jairangam will bring a

variety of English plays
to Jaipur with different
ﬂavours of drama on a
common stage

directed by Santanu Mallick; Don’t
Dressfor Dinner, directed by Kanchan
Ujjal; Frames, directed by RuchiBhar—
gava, and Night’s End, directed by
Gowri Ramnarayan.
Hamlet In Hamlet Out, which will
be staged on the opening day, is a the-

atrical production by students of MaAfter Hrs Correspondent

haraja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalaya.

The play is a tribute to 450 and 400
he forthcoming annual theatre
festival of Jaipur; ‘Au—Jairangam’,

Which will be held from November 21 to 28, has a bonanza of,

English plays in store for theatre lovers of the city. As many as ﬁve English

plays will be staged as a part of the
week-long theatre festival. The plays
are — Hamlet In Hamlet Ou t, directed

by Pranab Mukherjee; Paul Gomra,

years of William Shakespeare’s birth

and death commemoration, respectively. It looks at an internal mono—
logue that goes inside Hamlet’s mind.
Paul Gomra (November 22) is the
story of a Hindi poet who works at a
newspaper in New Delhi. Born as

Ram Gopal Saksenaa, the protagonist
changes his name to Paul Gomra as
his original name seems ‘backward,

narrow-minded andlower class’ inthe
changingtimes ’of globalisation. Thus
he takes the i‘Pal.’ out of Ram Gopal

and made it ‘Paul? and the remaining
‘Ram60’ rturned;th .‘Gomra’.
Don’t DrpéSfdﬁDinner (November
22) narrates the story of Bernard, who
wanted “to spend'aromantic weekend
with his mistress while his wife, Jacqueline was away. Suddenly his best
friend, Robert comes to town and
since he seems like the perfect alibi,

Bernard invites him to stay However,
unbeknownst to Bernard, Jacqueline

and Robert are having an affair. Once
she ﬁnds that Robert is coming, she

decides to stay. And thus begins the
intricatefdesign- of. deception.

Set in‘a reserve forest in Rajasthan,
Night’s End unfolds the story of
Krishnan Nair. Born in a family of
Kathakali artistes and trained in the
art from childhood, Krishnan runs
away from his. native village in Kerala
and becomes a forest guard in a tiger

sanctuary. In emotional intensity, the
Kathakali artiste in him ﬁnds solace
dancing. Night’s End is a tale of betrayal, abandonment and loss in
which the actions of humans—- indigenous peoples, settlers, tourists, the
V ३. ..

state, media —— powerfully affect the
fragile ecosystem. 'I‘he‘play will be

staged on November 2’7.
Frames is an experimental theatri-

cal piece consisting of 5 women. The
play revolves around the search for

their identity or rather the frame for
which they are made. And, this too,

३ will be staged on November 27.
afterhoursjpr®dnaindianet

