D ee p av al i
the festival of lights

Deepavali, the festival of lights, is one of the most social

and popular of India’s national festivals.

It is an occasion for

forgetting old scores, for reconciliations, for making new resolu-

tions, nursing new hopes.
peace and friendship.

It is a festival of joy and gaiety, of

Myriads of lights gleam and twinkle. You will observe that
it is not the garish glare of electric bulbs or ﬂuorescent tubes
which casts that wonderful spell, but the gentle glow of delicate
wicks in earthenware lamps ﬂickering with the breeze.

The market-places are noisy and bright and busy. Every
shop is tastefully decorated. Soft silken fabrics and cotton
textiles of different hues provide a feast for the eyes. Delicious
sweetmeats tempt the holiday crowds.
The temple bells chant, the priests sing hymns and streams
of devotees light the wicks, illuminating the shrines.
The children run about happy and excited. It is their day
also. They coax their parents to buy them toys. They let off
multi-coloured fireworks making pleasing radiant patterns in the
sky. The very young timidly hold the sparklers emitting silvery
sparks.

Crackers boom and burst.

In corners, there are

giant

wheels and merry-go-rounds.
There are fairs, dancing and
singing. There is fun for all and everything for fun.

New clothes are much in evidence. There is a smile on
every lip. Houses are cleaned and whitewashed. Courtyards
and verandas decorated with Rangoli, the artistic designs made
with dry colours in which our women excel. An all-pervading
sense of friendship and gaiety fills the atmosphere.
The festivities begin some days before Deepavali and extend
a day or two after. On actual Deepavali day, men, women and
children rise with the dawn, rub their body with oil and bathe,
wear new clothes. Women clean the houses, prepare savouries
and sweets, offer prayers. People go out to visit friends and
relatives.

In some areas, this festival marks the beginning of the New

अर-न-...."'-'.,

(we. 5५५४ .
८" 7' \ ‘/ पू ० w "

1

