A scene from M ithua

mithua
This is a story of a little girl Mithua.
She could never never sleep because she
was Ill and. like the brave girl she was,
she suﬂ‘ered in si'encc. Her mother suffered too. How could she sleep u hen her
little darling kept awake night after night
staring into the silent road crossings—busy
during the day but quiet and aWesome
during the night I
On one such sleepless night, Mithua
said, "Ma! Y‘u know those light posts
and those post boxes! They really talk
to each other when the town sleeps ; and
they mme too—honestly, Ma! I see thetn
Mother
whispering to each other”.
sighed and said, "Perhaps so. dear. Try
and sleep if you can”. l\lithua knew

mother was sleepy and said, “All right
Ma l I am trying to sleep”, and she turned
Mother SV\llCl]€(l Oil all lights
over.
except the little blue one and CIOSed her
eyes out of sheer fatigue.
And Mithua stared into the quiet
road—sleep uonld not Come to her. Suddenlv she heard Wonderful music and oh!
there right before her window stood four
light pOctS in gorgeous c0stumes smiling

at Mithua.

“Mithua”,

Post, "Don’t be unhappy.

said the Light

You shall be

well again. Look! We have come to entertain you. There are the Traﬂic Lights,

the Post Boxes. the Telephone Posts
and a host of others come to greet you.
Look Mithua, even the stars and moon

have come down to say how dye to you"
l\lithua was happy as a lark and lo! her
legs were all right and she could dance
too. So started a serenade of the an itnated inanimates. ’l hey danced, they sang.
The moon kissed little Mithua and danCed
to her: so did the stars and the glowwortns and the fairies. Mithua had never
felt so happy before. The night speedily
paSSed and as the ﬁrst morning tratncar
sounded its gong, Mithua for once lelt
sleepy. She yauned and bidding good-bye
to her new friends, closed her eyes. With the
dawn, the inanimates moved to their places
and bt’CimC still again. The stars, the
moon and the glow—worm fairies—all disa p p ea r e d .
Suddenly mother woke up with a start
and kissed her little darling. But Mithua
was fast asleep.

