Classical
dance

“m..... ..A

charming sacriﬁce to the Gods, pleasant to

behold... . . ...”

—— K a l i d a s a
’I‘HE songs Of the people hold the mirror up to their soul;
and equally true is this of their dances, with their dual

elements of rhythmic movement and music. As in other countries, dancing started here as a form of expressing man’s feelings
of ecstacy. As time passed, it became a mode of worship and
finally developed into a cultivated art. The remains of the
Indus Valley Civilisation prove that dance has been practised
in our country as a cultivated art for the last three thousand
years. The earliest of Indian dramas refer to dance as an
essential part of it. Drama was deﬁned as Rupaka or visual
representation, songs, dances, costumes, etc., being the chief
medium of conveying the theme of the play to the audience.

In our land the origin of dance has been attributed to divine
beings as we believe that the beautiful things of life are the
manifestations of the Almighty. The ﬁrst dancers were the
gods who performed the dance of creation, preservation and
destruction. Because of its charm and appeal, dance which
embraces in its fold other expressions of beauty—like poetry,
music, colOur and rhythm—has been regarded as the recreation
of the gods. The Sage Bharata, the author of the first known
treatise on the subject, defines dance as an amusement for the

gods which is pleasing both to the eyes and the ears.
Tradition ascribes the origin of Nafya to Brahma, who in
compliance with the request of the gods created the Naiya Veda
taking different elements such as speech, gesture, song and
interpretation from the existing four Vedas. 'l‘he [Va/ya Veda
is thus known as the Fifth Veda. Pleased with the creation of
this Veda, Lord Shiva, the Cosmic Dancer, enriched it by intro—

ducing the vigorous aspect of dancing ('l'audava), while his consort Parvati contributed the gentler and graceful aspect (Lasya).
Thus blessed by the gods the dance was handed down to the
votaries of art as a sacred heritage.

Since religion and spirituality colour all aspects of art in
our country, dancing has been visualised as symbolic of the stri—
vings of the human soul to attain salvation. The devotees of
Shiva visualise the cosmic theory of the universe in the dance
of Shiva or Nataraja, “whose body movements set the universe

in motion, whose speech is the source of all sounds and whose
adornments are the moon and the stars." To quote Dr. Anand

l8

