Coomaraswamy, “the root behind all dances is the dance of
Shiva, it is the manifestation of primal rhythmic energy.” Nataraja, the Cosmic Dancer, dances to create peace in the universe
by destroying the evil and ignorance and to relieve countless
souls of mortals from the snare of illusion, for the plac of his
dance is the centre of the universe, i.e., the human heart.
The devotees of Krishna seek the path of immortal love as
the path of salvation.

The Raas Lila of Krishna and the Gopis,

which forms a popular theme represents the longing of the Gopz's
(human soul) to join the divine dancer, Krishna (Universal

Spirit). The dance which ensues to the accompaniment
the ﬂute represents the blissful harmony in the universe.

of

Dancing represents Rasa or emotional ﬂavour and aims at
Abhinaya~a representation of life through four different kinds
of artistic expressions, viz, physical movements (Angika), dialogues(Vachiha), decor and costume (Aharya) and heightened
emotion (Satvt'ka). These, in a nutshell, cover the sphere of
the art of dancing.

Dancing has been an integral part of life since the dawn
of our history. According to the Natya Shastra, the treatise
of Bharata on the subject, dance must form part of all
celebrations and must be performed before every undertaking,

as it is calculated to make the occasion auspicious. We ﬁnd
copious reference to dancing in our early literature, like the
Vedas, the Epics, the Pura/zas etc., where it is described as neces-

sary part of the education of the people besides being an entertainment in the courts of the rulers.
The four main forms of Indian dancing are Bharat Natyam,
Kathaka/i, Kalhak and Manipuri. These conform to the rules
laid down in ancient texts. Owing to historical and social con—
ditions, each style has evolved a distinct technique. Nevertheless these dance styles have certain common aesthetic principles,
some similar technical features and a mythological unity.
In spite of its elaborate and complicated technique, the
dance is an intimate expression of life, simple in its appeal.
“Of the dance you never weary”,

says Dr. Anand Coomara-

swamy, “there is eternal wonder in the perfect reﬁnement of
its grace and the mental concentration needed to control each
muscle so completely; for this is not the posturing born of a
passing mood, but the elaborated art of three thousand years,
an art that deceives you by its seeming simplicity, but in reality
idealises every passion, human and divine”.

“The dancingfoot, the sound of the fink/mg bells,
The songs that are sung and the varying steps,
Theform assumed by our Dancing Gurupara,
Find out these within yourself, then shall your fetters fall away".

19

