D r a m a

DRAMA has existed in India from the very earliest times.
Legend has it that Brahma. the Creator, himself deﬁned
the purpose of drama as“ .... ..the source of all counsel in matters
of flavour (raw), mood (b/mzra), and every rite;

. . . . ..a timely

resting-place for those who are grieved, weary, unhappy or
engaged in an arduous discipline; bestowing righteousness,
renown, long life, fortune, increase of reason ; atIording counsel
to the world . . . . ..” Similarly, Bharata, author of the earliest
treatise on dramaturgy, Nafya S/msfru, described drama as
“a means of entertainment in the world, and a place of audience
for the Vedas, for philosophy, for history, and other matters..."

The growth of the Indian drama was intimately connected
with the religious life of the people, especially with the cults
of Shiva and Krishna. It was in a ﬂourishing state by the time
of the Kushana emperors who were Buddhists. Fragments of
Suripuz'rapralem'anu by the famous Buddhist sage Ashvaghosha,
discovered in Central Asia, reveal that the

Sanskrit drama had

already attained a high level. The next great dramatist was
Bhasa (circa 300 A. D.) whose plays are remarkable for their
literary quality. “is masterpiece, Srcupnai‘usatuduttam is a
play of intrigue and romance with carefully drawn characters,
and simple but accomplished poetry.
The Sanskrit drama reached its summit with the works of

Kalidasa (circa

400 A. D.).

His

greatest work,

popularly

known as Shakmn‘a/u, is a mature and perfect play, elegant in

expression and deeply moving in the portrayal of love and
sorrow.

Of later dramatists, the most famous are Bhavabhuti

(circa 700 A. D.), King Harsha (circa 606—648 A. D.), Vishakhadatta (circa 9th century A. D.), Bhatta Narayana, and Rajashekhara who wrote in Prakrit.

Side by side with ‘high’ Sanskrit plays, there also existed
simpler plays, always popular with the people. Some of these
were rich in humour and satire. Some were based on mytholo-

gical and religious themes.
With the Muslim conquest, the dramatic art suffered a
decline. In North India, it sought refuge in the countryside
where it became a part of the folk tradition, preserving, though
In
in a rudimentary form, vestiges of its glorious past.
South India, more free from Muslim inﬂuence, drama,
particularly dance-drama, continued to ﬂourish. In 'I‘amilnad,
Bharatnufyum developed. In Kerala, a form of theatre that

37

