Fol k puppets

Puppetry is one of the most ancient dramatic arts and was
probably the very ﬁrst form of entertainment in our country.
The later classical Sanskrit drama has, as one of its principal characters, Surrad/zar, literally meaning “one who holds the strings”,

which perhaps is a remnant of the earlier puppets plays. In other
ancient Sanskrit mythological and religious works, God is often
referred to as Sutradhar—one who controls the human puppets
on this great stage of life.

After the growth of the regular drama, puppet plays continued
as a sort of folk entertainment and are found even to this day in

various parts of the country. Apart from the well-known
puppet players of Rajasthan in the North and of Tanjore in the
South, puppets are also found in Orissa where they are made of
papier mache. In Karnatak, puppets are made of brass, and in
Andhra beautiful leather puppets, both coloured and black, are

used for shadow plays. Thus this form of entertainment and
dramatic presentation is very widespread, though it is not in the
same stage of development, preservation or popularity everywhere. In the puppet plays of South India and Orissa, the
themes are mainly baSed on episodes from the Epics. In
Rajasthani puppet plays, however, the themes are generally
based on the heroic deeds of Rajput princes and warriors or on
some folk romances, like the story of Dhola and Maru.
For want of sufficient and proper patronage and with the
growing urbanisation of the countryside and widespread popularity of the cinema, our puppet theatre, like a number of other
folk arts, has been stagnating. That is the reason why, inspite
of its ancient lineage, Indian puppetry today is not very
advanced or developed.
Of late, however, there has been a revival of interest in

this extremely interesting and expressive dramatic form and
experiments are being made to bring about a renovation and
rejuvenation in all its aspects, such as theme, treatment,
technique, costumes, stage-setting and music, etc.

The story of our presentation is based on some of the
episodes of the well-known folk romance of Rajasthan, Dhola
.llaru. The treatment and technique of presentation is also
basically Rajasthani. The puppets in these plays are generally
very small and light and, therefore, they have great deal of
movement, not so much of the different limbs of the body as of
the entire puppet itself which keeps on hopping and dancing
about on the stage. Their make-up and costumes are imaginative rather than realistic and, therefore, artistic and interesting.
They have an unsophisticated air about them which is eminently
'
suitable for the suggestive puppet technique.

44

