Fo I k s o ngs

:OLK songs, like all other folk arts, are a vital part of the life
of any people. Our country, with its great diversity of
geographical features, climates, races, religions, social and
cultural patterns, naturally has an almost endless variety and unbelievably rich abundance of folk songs. The themes of these
songs are infinitely varied, covering all aspects of the life of the
common people, their joys and sorrows, their loves and hates,
their hopes and aspirations, their

festivals and their daily occupations.

social celebrations,

seasonal

In fact there are songs for

all occasions in the life of an individual,

from his birth to his

death. There is a close unity between the words of these songs
and their music, which is remarkably rich with all its simplicity
and directness.
At the same time there is a sort of continuity, some under-

lying unity, between the folk songs of various regions and
similarity of feeling and experience has brought about similar
expressions both in words and music. Yet, on the whole,
each region retains its distinctive flavour. In spite of the
language barriers, it is not difficult to recognise a Baul or a
Bhutia/i from Bengal, a :lfund from Raj isthan, a Rusia or a
Kajri from [lttar Pradesh, a I’ozcudu from Maharashtra or any
other typical tune of any part of the country.

Structurally. though most of this music retains the melodic
frame-work, it is very simple and makes use of only 3—4 notes at
a time. It is often surprising how those few notes bring about
such bewildering variety Of lilt, expression, rhythm and mood.
There are. of course. some complicated melodies also which
almost verge on the classical. Surprisingly. in a few tunes,
certain notes and expressions are repeated with almost the same
emphasis and predominance as found in classical compositions.
Some of our younger classical musicians are carrying out
research in this direction and a few new ragas or melody types
have been evolved and elaborated out of some tunes. Even as
it is, some of the accepted classical raga: bear a clear imprint of
their origin from a common folk tune.
The appeal of the folk song is direct and straight, as much
through its words as through its music. and this is being
increasingly recognised by new composers, particularly the
composers of film and dance music and an extensive use of the
folk melodies is being made by them. Often this has also resulted
in their misus: and distortion. but on the whole,

there

is

no

doubt that folk music has immense possibilities for evolving
a genuine and authentic popular music in this country.

51

