F i | m
pather panchali

'I‘Hli uniqueness of “I’ather Panchali" is not only because
it is “the most human document” as the Cannes Judges
described it. It has been directed by man who has been
hitherto in an advertising agency and who had done illustrations
to the book of the same title written by Bibhutibhushan
Bandopadhyaya. It has been photographed by a man who
had never before handled a motion picture camera. l\'0 sets.
no costumes. no make—up were used. The boy. the girl. the
mother and several other characters faced the camera for the
first time only when the film was shot. The Government of
West Bengal is its producer. Director Satyajit Roy defied all
laws of film making in India and created a film which is
truly Indian and yet unlike all Indian films.
Nothing much happens. A girl steals beads from a
neighbour‘s. A boy is put into a \illage school. An old
woman
dies.
A
peepshow
comes
to
the
village.
There is a wedding.
There is a rainstorm. Where is the
material
for
drama
in
all this.
we wonder. But
such
is
the
stuff of
which
“Pather Panchali" is
made and it yields drama and is poetry as well. For these
simple people live in every nerve. The countryside lives in
the quiver of every leaf, in every ripple on the surfaCe of its
pond. in the daily glories of its mornings and evenings. The
people live in every nerve and we live with them.
"Pather Panchali" marks a complete break from the
world of make-belie\e. of a "IF/(Ulgf’ of impossible situations.
from a language which is not the language of cinema. It communicates its meaning by visual impact.
The dialogue is
used only sparingly and the music by Ray i Shankar is used
not to fabricate an atmosphere or to give intensity to a scene
which might fall ﬂat otherwise but to put the mood into

relief by contrast and counterpoint.

It mitigates. as a sensitive

musical score should. "the inevitable impression of an embarrassing closeness to intimate events." The visual image is
never superseded.

The primacy of the image does not entirely explain the
power of the picture. No Indian director has. of course. ever
sought to achieve the stunning visual impact which the young
artist. Satyajit Roy. the maker of “Father Panchali" has. He

53

