Producer’s Note

“And Priests in black gowns were walking their rounds
And binding with briars my joys and desires”
— W i । । i a m Blake

‘Ghosts' is about the conflict in middle-class Norway of the l880's between two
sharply opposed views of how society should be regulated. The struggle, which was fought
with a bitterness amazing by our standards, was between

the

Puritan and

Conservative

Right (symbolised by Pastor' Manders) and the free thinking, ‘revolutionary’ Left, who are
represented by Oswald, the artist who has pursued the ‘joys of life’ far away in Paris.
Here is the contrast:
Pastor Manders :

Oswald:

“All this demanding to be happy in life, it's all part of the same
wanton idea. What right have people to happiness .7 No, we
have our duty to do, Mrs. Alving."

“in other countries they think it’s tremendous fun just to be
alive at all ......... light and sunshine and a holiday spirit and
radiantly happy faces.”

lbsen challenged his Norwegian contemporaries to consider the misery and disaster
caused to two generations because a woman (Mrs. Alving) accepted the dictates of con-

ventional morality in her youth and understood her mistake too late.

He intended to

shock: he could not help it if Society ostracised him for years for it (he was already a
voluntary exile in Italy). “ ‘Ghosts’ " he wrote “will probably cause alarm in certain circles.
But there is no help for it. If the play did not do this, there would have been no need

to write it.”
He underestimated the violence of its impact. People were enraged when it came
out, particularly over the references to venereal disease—an unrnentionable subject at the
time—which lbsen put in the play even though any other heridatary ailment would have
served the plot as well. Whole bales of the play were returned to the publisher. At the
ﬁrst performance in London in 1 891 , pandemonium broke out. One critic called it “as
foul and filthy a concoction as has ever been allowed to disgrace the boards of an English
theatre."

The issues raised by ‘Ghosts’ do not arouse such passion eighty years later.
even in our more liberal society they are still with us.

wishes, or as her parents wish ?

But

Should a girl get married as she

Should work be regarded as a duty or a pleasure ?

And

so on.
But the reputation and frequent revivals of ‘Ghosts’ are really due less to its avantgarde social message than to the way the story is told—-its tragic, almost Greek, IneVItablIty
and the superb economy, craftsmanship and dramatic sense with which It IS written.

