The interpretation and communication of Bulleh Shah’s spiritual and philosophical message in accessible theatrical language
was a creative challenge of a major dimension. It was well-nigh impossible to achieve this in terms of any single art
form or style. Answers to many of the artistic problems had to be found by taking recourse to several art forms
—- song, dance, mime, movement, literature and pictorial representation — to fully communicate the spiritual journey
of Bulleh Shah envisioned in his writings and deeds. Lyrics from different regional“ languages, regional music of many
hues . and dance movements from different cultural milieu found a place in the artistic mosaic i.e. Rooh-e-Ishq.
The solo rendering with a single-fret instrument would be supported by large chorus singing, fusion music, folk musicians
with castanets, along with occasional ritual Sufi dancing, with a background of audio—visual recreating Bulleh Shah’s mystical
journey, carefully designed by Avinash Pasricha, one of our country’s most renowned photographers. The production
is in a way a collaborative adventure bringing together the artistic talents of the entire subcontinent — from Sri Lanka
to the plains of upper India and from the sandy Thar desert to the lush green plains of Bangladesh.
As a point of reference, I sought an occasion to sing some of my compositions of Rooh-e-lshq to Srnt Arnrita Pritarn,
one of the most loved Punjabi poetesses of our times. She was not only moved by the songs but generously blessed
our efforts. In our search for an interpretation of Bulleh’s true message, her blessings are deeply reassuring.
Kaladharmi, a registered non-profit organisation, was begun by a group of experienced persons, including practising artists,

scholars, and connoisseurs of the performing arts.

With a view to setting up a regular arts presentation programme, Kaladharmi has attempted to bring to the Delhi
stage young dancers and musicians being trained in different teaching centres in the country. Kaladharmi has offered
a platform to those who have shown outstanding solo ability as stage performers so as to help them advance their
career on the professional stage.

४ (ma-j—
जि";

’1‘

…

Rita Ganguly

