५५-८-८५५०. . . .- , M.
h V . u-

’

‘.

v r'
i
५५५५

a

५५५८८

V ' ३ ईन

3३३) 3 l ५३३ MN

३ The Play

३३ ५५,५५८

The Victors, Men wit‘ out Shadows (Morb sans sep lture 1946) Dranu
set in France in 1944. A srriallbaiid' of capti
French Resistance fighters,
await Interrogation and torture by Vichy officers. Actually they have nothing
to confess and do not ever know the where abouts of their leader Jean. Among
the prisnors are Jean's mistress Luci and her teen-age brother
Francois.
Suddenly Jean is thrown among them his identity not being known to his captors

They agree that Jean can and must be freed to warn others of a suspected prap,
while some of the others rnaqui sards undergo torture, Francois breaks down
and declares that he will denounce Jean. The others strangle Francois. Before

Jean is freed he devices a plan to save the group.

They can pretend to

inform on him by sending their captors to a place where they will find a corpse
that they will mistakenly believe to be Jean's.
Although the masquisard's prefer to maintain sillence they come to

realize that dying unneccessarily is pride, not heroism, they "Confess" but a
sedistic officer has them shot any way.

The Play Wright
Jean-Paul sartre (French novelist

PhilOSpher,

known for his philosophy of atheistic Exislentialism.

cretic, and

dramatist

The Experiences of the

war, as well as the events leading up to it, the humiliation of occupation, and
his participation in the Resistance, a movement Embracing both human
and human solidarity, greating influenced the development

of

isolation

his thinking.

Existential concepts such as commitment dreadful freedom, and responsible
choice because associated with his name and thus he gave existentialism a
wider audience.
Despite the fact'that sartre's dramatic output is small

his commanding

position as a man of letters and as one of the most popular writers in pOSt
word-war li
५ France makes his plays of particular significance in the history of
European drama.

Whether his plays

have the small significance as literature

was they have as history in still a diSputed point.

That they are important

as creative products of their time is, however, indisputable his plays have been

aptly discribed as fuilorophical rnelodrarnas or rnelodrarnas of ideas and range
from myth to historical allegory and was farce, all of them remaining within the
bounds of realism The best known plays include. The Flies (Les rnouches 1943)
No Exist (Huisclos 1944)

The Respectable Prostitute

(La putain respeclacis

1946) Dirty Hands (Las mains sales 1948) The Devils the Good lord (Le Deable
el Bon Dieu 1951) Kean or Disorders Genirs (Kean on Dis order et genie 1953),
Nekrassor (1955) and the condemned of Allona (Las sequestres d'Altona 1959)

नटरंग प्रतिष्ठान

