Society for Child Development
The Society for Child Development is a charitable organization registered with the

Government of India since 1992. At present the Society has developed services in 3
areas:
Prabhat

Prabhat was founded in 1992 to provide for children with disabilities with a sound
educational and training facility that would assist them in the acquisition of basic living

and academic skills. In Prabhat, it is strongly felt that each human being should have
an equal opportunity to be exposed to the norms of society, and that the time available
is during the years of childhood. Given a solid foundation in the early years, our
children who have already been handicapped by nature, should not be further
handicapped by us.
Based on this philosophy, Prabhat provides for the needs of children and
adults with learning difﬁculties. The facilities offered are in the areas ofEarly stimulation
and Primary education. The supportive therapeutic services offered are in the areas
of physiotherapy, speech therapy, psychological and behavioral management. Other
services include learning skills for future employment - and the time left over for this
guelling schedule is reserved for leisure and fun. Our plan for the year 1999 include
drama therapy and yoga.
The services provided for the children for their holistic development are based
on age and need. Children less than 3 years are enrolled in a home based program
wherein children are brought to the school for 1 hour alternate days. Each child is
attended to individually. Parents are active participants, to enable them carry on the
program at home.
Academics and learning the 3 R’s form the initial phase of the program for
older children. Higher concepts in mathematics, languages, science and social studies
via curricula that is individualized according the ability of each child.
Therapeutic services and vocational programs are supportive services that
prepare the child for eventual integration into mainstream society.

