Disability India Network
There are many NGOs working in the sphere of providing facilities and services for
persons with disabilities, yet there is no comprehensive data available for the ready
reference of professionals and parents seeking access to such information. Even
some of us, active in this line of work, have often felt the information gap — where and
what is being done across the country! This need has been felt time and again.

To fulfill the lacunae, and to provide countrywide support and services to
disabled children, their parents and organizations, the Society for Child Develop—
ment, invited NGO’s across the country to send in the particulars of their area of
specialized work in establishing the Disability India Network. The DI Network has
begun a register of services that is available to all - nationally and internationally via
the internet. Thus, organizations have the benefit of being accessible to those who
require their services within the country, and, additionally have the added advantage
of being visible to the world outside. Organizations already on the web, with their
web sites, then have the added convenience of a link, enlacing their site visibility.

Work on the Disability India Network site has already begun and the site is
under construction. More than 1000 organizations are already a part of the growin
g
index and each one of them will be given a free page to list their contact details
and
specialties. The site will have more than a thousand pages and will be the bigges
t of
its kind in India and hopefully, in the world. With it’s own Search Engine, the
site will
also be one of the easient to use for the end user.

Pediatricians and other child specialists will be standing by to assist
parents
with their queries. Access centers will be soon be opened in vario
us parts of the
country to help parents access sites and retrieve relevant informatio
n without having
to go from pillar to post.

Visit the site at http://www.disabilityindia.org

