About Grips
Grips Theatre was started by Volker Ludwig and his friends as a fallout of '68
student movement in Europe. The word 'Grips' is just a northern German
expression. It is a funny word. Children love it. It is a mixture of wit brain, quick
understanding, sense of fun and intelligence. 80 this word is first fun,
entertainment and second intelligence, rationality. These are two very
important parts of Grips theatre.
Grips plays portray the world, not through the eyes of adults, but of kids. The
topics of the plays are problems that children and youth have with their
surroundings, i.e. authoritarian education, lack of playgrounds, school
problems, prejudices, divorced parents, pollution, hostility towards
foreigners, longing for friendship and love, etc. In the youth plays they could
be puberty, unemployment, drugs, lack of perspective on life, etc. The stories
are realistic and not metaphorical or allegorical. The main characters of the
plays are kids and youth, performed by professional adult actors. Grips does
not teach or provide answers; rather, it shows how to ask the right questions children have the right to ask questions. The language of the plays is the vital,
everyday language of the kids, full of fantasy, humor and slang. Grips, is not a
teacher of high German. Grips stands in the tradition of Aristotle,
Shakespeare, Moliere and Dario Fo: it likes to make the audience laugh. To
laugh means to understand, to make lusty use of the brain. All Grips plays
include songs carried away by the kids as hand luggage after the show.
The plays also reinforce the feeling of self esteem in the young audience.
They are seated at three (sometimes four) sides of the stage and they
experience other children's reactions. This helps them to interact and
communicate during and after the show (as opposed to the mute and insular
consumption of the T.V.). And finally, Grips plays are not objects of art but
useful objects. These plays are useful for children, parents and teachers. At
the same time, they are full of art.
Dr. Mohan Agashe initiated Grips in India as Honarary Director of 'Theatre
Academy Grips Project ' in 1986. In last 15 years, more than 12 plays of
Grips or inspired by Grips have been produced in India in Marathi, Hindi,
Bengali & Kannad giving more than 2000 performances. This led to formation
of D.A.T. E . (Developing Awareness Through Entertainment) an organization
headed by Dr. Mohan Agashe which promotes issue based quality theatre for
children & youth.

