inter—relationship of music with the other art forms. He
has also studied electronic music under David Tudor of
New York, a name well known in that field. Atul Desai has
been extremely successful in his projects of “music for
dance”. His music arrangement for the dance compositions of the "Kadamb" dance group have been so
successful that they have been acclaimed by critics and
audiences all over the world. To him, alone, goes the

credit of introducing electronic music to the Indian dance
scene.
He runs “thani”, a recording studio in Ahmedabad.
Because of his deep interest, his time, energy and
creative genius are channelised to the research 0 music
in the total form.

TAPAS SEN

Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra considers itself fortunate
to be assQCiated With Shri Tapas Sen whose name in the
lighting field needs no introduction.
Shri Tapas Sen is a Founder—Member of the Delhi lndian
People’s Theatre Association. In the process and through
his imagination and technical virtuosity he has quietly
affected what can rightly be attributed, a contributing
factcr in stage plays.

Shri Sen’s‘work was voted as the best lighting design in
ASIa’72 Fair and Ind. Fair'79 in Delhi; Shri Tapas Sen has
done the lighting for the Son-et-Lumiere at Teen Murti'
House, New Delhi.

Shri Tapas Sen did the lighting design for the first Ram'lila

in 1.975 and has been continuously doing the same for its
major productions.

He received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 1975.

SHOBHA DEEPAK SINGH
Shobha Deepak Singh, Executive Director of Shrirarn
Bharatiya Kala Kendra also looks after the Ballet Unit of
the Kendra. Her deep interest in Indian culture, particular—
ly in Indian dance has considerably helped the Kendra to
undertake many innovative ventures in the field of Ballet.
She has specialised in the techniques and aesthetics of
Kathak and Mayurbhanj Chhau. This has enabled her to
effectively design the costumes and general decor of
ballets like Kaling-Vijay, Khaiuraho, Konark, Yayati, Shan-

e-Mughal, Ram Lila and Krishna Avatar. She has also
presented a thought—provoking paper on Mayurbhani
Chhau at the Inter tiggal Dance Seminar held in Calcutta
conrecently under th aus‘ﬁiE’éS‘vf-“Padatik..Tthu
tinuous involvem t in म्पूहैहूमु ces of designing _ ultifa-

rious aspects of b llet, s e
into the problem
'
३

deailoped a keen ‘inSIght
'

