,KASHMIR TIMES, JAMMU
3
PE
"' play ‘Lohaar Ki Ek9 staged
Monday, August 24, 2015

i

KTANEWS'SERY'CE

,आँ ,, W ,,

JAMMU, Aug 23: Natrang staged
a Hindi play "Lohaar Ki Ek' based
on a play ‘Chhe Mahine Kaa Jhooth'
written by Rishimohan Srivastav
and directed and devised by Neeraj
Kant at its Studio Theatre under the
weekly series Sunday Theatre.
A beﬁtting farewell to this year's
last Sunday performance, this come
dy play was ably structured to compliment the essence of the theme.
Based on the story of a typical character who has a bad habit of making
a false statement every day. This
bad practice has not only invited
annoyance of everyone around but
he has suffered innumerous losses.
This bad habit of his has not
allowed any servant to stay and he is
forced to mange his house on his
own. Tired of handling all his
aﬁ‘airs, he seeks the help from one of
his friend to manage a domestic help
for him. He brings a servant for him
who has no problem ofhis telling lie
once a day. While the terms are
being ﬁxed mutually, the servant
informs that he also has the habit of
telling lie but only once in six
months. The servant somehow tries
to adjust in the beginning but later
also start finding it difficult to manage his unwarranted lies.
The story takes a turn, once in a

dream the servant sees his master

dog. After some days the servant is
back, master is very curious to know
the wellbeing his love ones. Servant
breaks the ﬁrst bad news that his
dog died while eating the bone of the
horse and the horse_ died while
bringing bricks for the graveyard of
his mother.
,,
Before he couldenquire the reason
about the mother’s sad demise, the
servant informs that old lady could
not bear the shock of her daughterin law’s death who committed sui—
cide seeing her only son dead.
Listening all this, the master goes to
a big shock. Before he could take an
extreme step, he rushes to his vil. lage. The dogs run to him from a distance, which follows the horse.
Seeing the horse running, his son,
wife and mother comes out of the
house. Here master runs after his
servant for giving him this big shock
but the servant defends saying that
don’t be remember of his telling a lie
ohce in six months.
The actors who performed in the
being looted of his valuables by a play include Deepak Mulsoo,
thief .The master takes this as an
Shekhar Sharma, Shivam Singh,
alarm to any such future incident
Rohit Sharma and Ajay Singh. The
and dispatches all his valuables to
his native village through his ser- lights of the play were designed and
vant and also desires him to bring executed by Neeraj Kant. Mohd.
the news of the wellbeing ofall his Yaseen coordinated the show and
the presentations were done by
love ones which include his wife,
mother, young son, a horse and a pet Pankaj erma.

