If all the world’s a stage,
nature is her inspiration
C ULTU RATI
ARSHmi SETHI
Dr Sethi has a doctorate on the link between
dance and politics, with
the Sattriya dance form
ofAssam as a case
study.

For Malti Shyam, everything magicallyfell into place when
she came to Delhi and Shrirarn Bharatiya Kala Kendra guru
Reba Vidyarthi rrioulded her career and personality,
5 a young girl. Malti
Shyam was drawn to the
folk mu51c of her native
Alrriora क्वे and the Singing
of birds in that verdant.
beautiful lull region, She
came to Delhi after the untimely passtng
of her mother Staying With the fairiin
associated with the Shrirarri Bharatiya
Kala Kendra. young Malti grew up With
the surround sound ofmusic and the
tintinnabulation of dancers bells.
At age 11. she started learning Kathak
from Reba Vidyarthi.who has moulded
most of the present pantheonof top
dancers of that form. For Malti. she was
a motherﬁgure. So strongwas the bond
that Malti modelled herself on her guru
in more ways than one.
The qualities she inherited from
Reba include a high sense ofdiscipline.
Fortunately. she wasseldom at the receiving end of her castigations. and even
her scoldings “were always tinged With
love". recalls Malti. "l was particularly
impressed by her pakad ~ deep un—

a year,Reba prepared Malti.then only

12 for the dance competition that was
partof the iconic Shankar's Children's
Festival, whereshe won agold medal
and romed the ranks of eminent dancers like Rani Kama. who had also won a
gold several yearsearlier.
“ I recall it all so Vividly. I was a little
plurrip and Reba Didi had deSigned a
smartcostume for me with a bundi to
straightenmy body contours". Malti says
about her childhood success.
Malti‘s hostel yearsat Kathak Kendra
were very exciting as they all lived as

a large. happy family. “Didi would get
me food every tiriie I was sick."remembers Malti. She joined the hostel in 1982
armed with a scholarship from the
Kendra to study Kathak, “In every room,
we would cook simple things like porridge and sprouts or make tea It was an
excuse for all for us to get together." says
Malti. But they would also do their nyaz
(practice) everyday from 4 to 7arri. One
important thing she wants to ernpha~
Sise isthat there was no gharana divide

derstanding ofall aspects of the dance,

much sharing and communityfeeling

She would mould our arms and hand
gestures With the finesse ofa jeweler
andwas everso particular about the
precision of footwork and the clarity of
the [70!and the correctness ofthe mm"
(theweight of each mnemonic)" Today.
in Malti's classes. the guru's regimen is
replicated.
“We would dance for seVeral hours
continuously. The breaks were always
few and far between and. frankly. too
short at five minutes. We would repeat
a lesson several times till she was satisﬁed. Most of today‘s students don't have
that dum (deterrriinationlf' It was the re
sult of this kind of discipline that within

prevailed,
“Didi herself took rrie to Maharay-ii"
explains Malti, when questioned about
how she went to learn from her second
guru, doyeri of KathakPt Birju Maharaj.
“She said to him that she had ﬁnished
her work with me and that now she was
handi rig her daughterto him for further
training." Malti considers herselflucky
that he trained her with all sincerity.
and considers film her Auliya. “The most
important aspect of Maharai-ji's train 7
irig was that everything that he taught
was an embodiment of beauty".
In particular. she recallsthe poetic
sirniles he would use to explain how a

mm»: i aosEerMBER 1045 . wrm VLHELKACDM

