i _; ,_- ८८८. १._

r. रु

EVERYIN G ARTSY ONE HOU R
With over 18 years of training in

Bharatanatyam, RAGHU DlXIT is

The talented

more than just the singer we know

him to be. In a freewheeling chat
with SHRABASTI lVlALLlK, he
opens up about

learning to play the

M r D iXit '

guitar on his own,

being accidentally
discovered by
Vishal Shekhar
and how he is
trying to inspire
youngsters with
his music
rI1he stage was set V heart
thumping music, brilliant
pla of lights and myin
white snto 'e. Sever lights ick»
ered front the walls and the arches of the structures at Purana Qila
illuminatin the sky. As we
approached t e stage. we saw a
group of dancers doing their Final
sta e rehearsal —— not missmg a beat
an gracefully moving to the music.
Raghu Dixit stood at the back look~
'
at them and murmured to us.
- “T ere was atime l could dance like
that." He tookhis gazeoffthe stageand
looked past us irtlo the distance and
said, alntost dramatically, “Now I am
more ofa belly dancer." and spilled into
laughter at his own Witty comment.
hat was how we got to know Ragliu
Dixit. whom we have seen on stage or
on television screens, rocking, swaying
and keeping the audience on their lcet.
"Always keep them on theirfeet." he chuckled. We managed to grab aquick chat with
the singer- musician and ‘ex dancer' before
he rocked tlte compounds of l’urana Qila.
with ltis Raghu Dixil Project. amidst a spec
tacular light show at lag t! The Wily. wltlclt
was organised by action/2015 San "
Children and The United Nations in India
and presented bySeher
In real life, his 1 1 simple man and relishes the littleJoys of life attd we can say this
with Conviction became he i nvitcd In to stl in
one of tlte red sandstone steps of one of tlte
historic structures. He spo c in length about
the Show \vhow aitn was to chixr {or Narendra
Motli who, along With other world leaders.
adopted thenew Global Goalsat theUN
Summit in New York yestert ay.
_
“It is art interesting proposition
है that we are in a position today to
make a decision for tomorrow The

decision. ﬁrst ofall. should be made in a correct
way keepin in nitrid the focus points of who
in la shoul be after a dozade. We should address
the problems affecting its, especially the kids. i
believe that if education and poverty are taken
care of now. we Will take a big step forward.
Otherwise we “'Iu bestuck in this ltuge warpthat
we are already in
makingmany promises but
not delivering an, e elaborated.
Very frankly he told us that the show is going
to do very little to propagate the message "But
what it can do is bring people together asa community. They come to entoy andbe entertained
so we will not be singin Heal the itmid or songs
about bringing food an water. There will be fun
filled songs and yes. iii the middle we Will also
talk about t he importanceof the concert and why
they are here. People do not like being preached.
If something as important as this is presented iii
a fun Way it is procesxetl quickly Even il’lt) per
cent of the crowd Iak back the mesaage it wtll
be great." he saidt akiitg agood look at the crowd
of youngsters trickling in.
He rut-d the i‘act t at thecurrent generation
does not take 11\ much interest inthe art as they
should be. "There is so much ot‘anta/ing treasure lying tot me, which sadly most ot’lhe young
generation does not know about, leave alone being
impressed upon. Our attempt 1८ to present it in
such a way that the younger generationlikes either
the muskor the form and then 11३'1०1111५1१1५1आ८1
the words We try to matt- the minis so catchy
that tltey \\'I\ltto learn the worth and \\ ltL'tt they
do, they Will try to tind the meaning behind it.
Thc)‘ might not understand It in the tint leu' ti.‘\'\
bttt eventti \ they “'1” figure it out and realise
e १५८ that is wltat we .in- 11ring to do mth
our ttttisi ,' he elaborated

‘t' iniigii ।२९९-शिप४।।शासिं४त्" 11.1५ llH‘VaIV
with expressions and love» to sham l le told us
about about 111५ childhood and stories about it“
life. “Its no less tltan .t ttgh octane drama." he
rolltxl his आशा. shiftedto a mom comfortablepost
tioitand tonttittieil oath ht~ 'tlrantatit‘ life' "I - tuti'

ied to be amicrobiologist." he said with prideand
added, “and I‘m a Gold medallist from Mysore
Umversity. Before that I trained in Bhammnatt’am
for 18 'ears and even earned my i-idwrtt in it." He
pau
and sheepishly, yet witt sat , “Now rmfigure does not endorse that fact."
it is not unknownthat R hu is a self-taught
guitarist but how, why and w en he decided to
drop the £1le and pick upthe guitar. to:came
to know straight front the horses mouth. “It is a
legendarystory," he laughed out loud. “It “as during mycollege test when l was pursuing nw 3५९८.
that1 performed a Bluratanatyampiece. A friend
criticised me about themake u and the costume.
111111511८1.'905०1111८111111 man f.‘ He used toplay
the guitar and l was so rious that 1 remember
saying. ‘Give me two week and1 will Show you
that learnin theguitar is not a big deal} And I
pulled it of]; hesaid. And from the look in his
face we could almost hear ltim saying. "The rest.
as you know, is history."
Hts tryst with Hollywood was indeed
Bollywood in style. In his sharp humour hesaid,
“You see all these movies where the struggling
protagonist after years of h
work re hes
now ll. ». Then ust the moment he dmdestogire
up.miraculous ' a dooropens for him \ . my
story was sortoflikc that." He told us that he was
itt Mumbai trying to make a living from music
butnothing seemedto आगाह' hisoay.He was plannin

to quit when one othis triends asked him

to 0 one show. “l said to myself, ‘l.ets him- out
drantatit‘al ' But छ luckwould haw it, Vishal and
Shekhar happeitui to be there at thatsame place
and at that same time." he 5 ar

.

Nestthing he lute , he was called by the duo
and ottered a contract for an album. "Rut wait.

there l> a ston' there. too."he intenth "I went
to theirstudio and “masked to sin ' a song Then
hev slartal talking among themselves and there

I 5 Waiting for t em to क्या' somethtn . 'I‘hen
tltt approached me with theoffer of the albunt .
lt was that tilt f," he concludedlike a शामा'- teller
Uh

v k u l tt l

