गह्नश्र्वशौ लें लावें नुमा कं

National School of Drama Repertory Company

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in
1964—65 on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi. In
the beginning, it consisted of only four actors, musi—

extensively all over India and has made several successful trips of Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and

Mauritius.

cians and technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of

the National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964 late Shri
Om Shivpuri led the company and later in 1 977, Shri

Manohar Singh became the ﬁrst regular Chief of Repertory. When Manohar Singh left the Repertory company
in 1 985, for a short period Ms. Uttara Baokar and Ms.
Surekha Sirkri looked after the functioning of the
company. Later Shri J. N. Kaushal ofﬁciated as the chief
till 1988. from 1988 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was
treading the company. From 1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal
was again functioning as acting Chief.

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in
1992—93 on his twentieth death anniversary through a
major festival of his plays.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs,
set—models, costumes, properties, posters etc. of
Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1 991 on the
occassion 'of the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the
Company. It is a permanent exhibition designed by Shri

Bansi Kau l .
Business Manager

T. R Bakh sh i

Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of

Light Technician

GS. Marathe

plays ranging from stylized musicals to realistic con—

Sound Technician

S. N. Dasgupta

temporary works of Indian drama to translations and

Music lncharge

Om Prakas h

adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent direc-

Wardrobe lncharge

Cuursharan Kaur

tors of national and international repute from within

Workshop lncharge

Abdul Hakim

the country and abroad have worked with the Com—

Box Ofﬁce

S. P. Sharma,
Rarnesh Athwal,

pany .

S. R Yadav,
Repertory has performed over hundred and twenty
T. R Bhatt.
plays by seventy playwrights and has worked with ﬁfty
Director,

directors. Quite a few of the actor of the company have
National School

emerged, over the years, as celebrities in theatre,
of Drama
cinema and television of India. The Repertory tours

Prof Ram Gopal Baia]

