Director’s Note
I

State is the best creation of man as it is not an imitation

of any thing that existed before. As social contract
theorists believe, state is the result of a genuine
creative agreement based on the populer will of the
majority. Nature provided many things to hurnanbeings

ends with a message that this organisational illness is as
fatal as cancer and to resist it is impossible. Now the
point is, should we look at the play only from the angle

of entertainment? or should we really think of this
dangerous d i seas .

except law and order. it self. Thus with the emergence
of state a primitive society is transpered into a civil

The play ends with dogs crying which in our society is
regarded as omen. God knows what kind of disorder

society.

this will bring forward.

With the change of time human wants changed which

In the making of the paly, we improvised a couple of
additional scenes to say more to the audience about the

led to a siries of inventions and discoveries in the ﬁeld

of science and technology, there by making society ~

labour, division of time, rank, ﬁle, tape etc. ofﬁcialdorn

frustration of the real intellectuals, the love and
emotional angle of individuals and the impact of ﬁlms
on youth while doing these scenes l've tried to
incorporate few poems of all time great poet-dramatist

took its birth.

Bertolt Brecht.

Almost all the modern democracies accornadated
ofﬁcialdorn for organisational efﬁciency but...... what
about the selﬁsh and corrupt nature of humanbeings?
This nature of hurnanbeings germinated organisational

This play is though directed by me, but it is a collective
work of many individuals. Without their help, i would

illness, and bureaucracy started playing its garne—
curruption. favouritisarn arogance, and insensitivity

I am thankful to all technical and administrative staff of
NSD Repertory Company, for their co-operation. 1 am

towards public needs.

also thankful to all real impulsive actors and actresses

more complex. The social network became
complicated. Thus emerged the concept of division of

The present play “TAJ MAHAL KA TENDER" is a satire
on the rank, ﬁle, red tape and ofﬁcialdom. lt focusses
on the organisational diseases that India is suffring
from—corruption, idleness, favouritism, backwardness
arrogance and insensitivity to public needs. The play

not h av e co m e —o ut s ucessfu l ly .

who are also my colleague, it was really exciting for me
to work with them. l am also greatful to Prof. Ram
Gopal Bajaj, Director National School of Drama, for
suggesting me the script and giving me the chance to

Direct the play with NSD Repertory Company.
During the lehersal

