Alkazi's tenure saw a substantial increase in theatre activity
in the city. The regularity of the NSD‘s productions attracted
new audiences. Plays were drawn from Sanskrit and Greek
classics and contemporary Indian and Western sources,
providing Delhi theatre goers with serious and meaningful
theatre of high artistic quality as well as shaping and giving
direction to a modern urban drama.

play, came
which had been regarded essentially as a radio
ora Garden
into its own through its staging at the Talkat
ruins and later at the Purana Qila.

of
From its early years, the School had initiated a policy
with
inviting theatre directors from other countries to work
students. The plays and drarnaturgy of Bertolt Brecht
were introduced through student productions by German

to important discoveries of hitherto unperforrned texts

directors Carl Weber (The Caucasian Chalk Circle) and
Fritz Bennewitz (Three—penny Opera & Punt/Ila and His

helping to establish Hindi drama per se. It was at NSD in

Man Matt/) in the 1970s

The policy of performing plays in Hindi/Hindustani led

1962-63 that Mohan Rakesh’s Ashadh Ka Ek Din (1958)

and Dhararnveer Bharati’s Andha Yug (1954) were staged

The School also forged links with Japanese theatre,

to great acclaim. Prior to this, “weak characterization,”

studying the Kabuki and Noh forms. Theatre persons

and the highly Sanskritized language in Ashadh... had

from Japan came to the School to lecture and conduct

made it seem unstageable. The play‘s staging by the NSD

workshops and NSD sent its teachers and students to

established Rakesh’s repuation as a playwright and began

Japan to study various aspects of theatre. Mr. Sazo Sato,

a creative association with him in which all his plays were

a well-known theatre director, directed lbaragi, a kabuki

repeatedly performed by the School. Similarly, Andha Yug,

play in 1972.

We were in a
profession which
could only gauge
its achievement
through Iive
performance and
before a public

Jasma Odan
l‘ :_ Shanta Gandhi

