The play Acharya Thrtuffe
ponders over a simple
question: what constitutes
the difference between an
actor and a godrnan? They
both perform. Yet there is a
difference.

The Pla

टे The play Acharya Tartuffe revolves around Omnath, a businessman, who
meets a saint named Tartuffe in Pondicherry, gets influenced by him and
takes him to his house where chaos erupts. While Omnath and his mother
devote themselves to the godrnan totally, the rest of the family members
go against him. They try to convince Omnath that Tartuffe is an irnposter
but their efforts are in vain. Tartuffe manipulates Omnath’s weakness as
his weapon and uses that to further his desires towards Karnini, Omnath’s
wife. Matters soon come to a head and Kamini has to take matters in her
own hands. Finally, in a dramatic turn of events Tartuffe's evil background
is revealed by his own disciple, Chunni. The Police arrest him and the

The Director’s Note

whole experience serves as an eye-opener for Omnath.

The play Acharya Tartuffe ponders over a simple question: what
constitutes the difference between an actor and a godman’? They both
perform. Yet there is a difference. The theatre actor is honest. He/she
never pretends to be real. A (modern—day) godrnan does. He pretends to

be the faith incarnate!
The saints never performed. They lived their lives in simplicity. Today‘s
lust to perform, preach and convert should be looked at in the light of
austere living, as practiced by the Bhakti Saints. Like all lust, spiritual lust
too can lead to violence. In this production we have made austerity a
guiding principle. We have recycled things, not just material things such
as costume and property, but meaningful things like word, idiom, tune,

tale and witticism as well.
The National Repertory draws its actors from across the country. Luckily
these actors still speak their own mother tongue and carry regional
memories. We have drawn richly from this cultural source. Actors in this
production have not just acted but actually constructed this play as a
joint venture.

35

