Gautamr, the matron of the Asrama.

Learning of Sakuntala’s condition she has come

to sprinkle holy water on her and ask her to return to the herrnltage.

While Dusyanta still lingers about in the forest clearing, he hears the hermits call
him for protection of their evening rites. He goes to ward off the demons.
Scene 4: The Hermitage

The Gandharva marriage between Dusyanta and S‘akuntala has already been performed. The companions, Anasﬁya and Priyamvada are out picking ﬂowers. Durvasa
an irascible hermit, calls as a guest and asks to be received. Lost in thoughts ofDusyanta,
Sakuntala ignores his call, whereupon he pronounces a curse on her. The burden of
the curse is that the one she is thinking of will forget her.
In distress, Priyamvada runs off to appease the sage and begs that he withdraw
the curse. Durvasa concedes only to the extent of saying that the curse of forgetfulness
will cease at the sight of an ornament given for remembrance.
The sage Kasyapa blesses Sakuntalﬁ on her departure to her husband’s home. He
asks Sﬁrhgarava and two other ascetics to accompany her to the court. Sakuntala bids

a sad farewell to the trees, the birds and the beasts of the hermitage as well as to her
companions.

Gautami accompanies Sakuntala.

Scene 5: Qusyanta’s Court

The King is in a melancholy mood. The Vidusaka attends on him. The Chamberlain announces the arrival of hermits and ladies from Kanva’s Asrama. The King
orders that the Preceptor should receive them and bring them to him.
,
They are soon ushered into his presence, but Dusyanta now has no recollection of
Sakuntala and their marriage. There are heated exchanges between him and the hermits.

Sakuntala in a ﬁnal effort to arouse his memory is about to show him the ring he had
given her when she discovers to her horror that it is not on her ﬁnger. Gautami suggests
that it may have fallen into a river on the way. The King however regards the whole
affair as a fraud. Sakuntala after a violent ﬁt of anger breaks down.
Disturbed, the King asks the Preceptor for his advice. The Preceptor states that it had
been predicted that the King would beget the ﬁrst son gifted with the features of a

Chakravartin. As Sakuntala is pregnant she might be allowed to remain at his house
until her child is born. It: her child shows no signs of being a Chakravartin, S‘akuntala
may be sent back to the Asrama. The King agrees and Sakuntala and her companions
follow the Preceptor.
I
Suddenly a miracle occurs off-stage. The 'Preceptor re-enters to proclaim that
Sakuntala has been miraculously carried away into the heavens.
The King, while

