outwardly stating that this incident is of no consequence to him, is moved by a deep
anguish.
Scene 6: The Terrace

The ring has been recovered by a ﬁsherman and brought to the King. His memory
aroused by the sight of the ring, Dusyanta is in a mood of poignant repentance.
The
Vidﬁsaka tries to console him.
A court maiden brings a half-ﬁnished painting by the
King of Sakuntala and her companions, which he now wishes to complete. On learning
that his Queen is on her way to the garden, Dusyanta entrusts the painting to the
care of the Vidﬁsaka, who hurriedly departs.
Another maid sent by the Minister brings a document connected with the property
of a rich merchant who has died without an heir. In the Minister’s opinion. the merchant’s estate should revert to the State. Being childless himself, Dusya'nta is moved
by compassion at the injustice of such a law.
Suddenly the Vidﬁsaka’s cries of distress are heard. He is being attacked by an
invisible assailant.
The King rushes to his rescue but is unable to spy the attacker.
Then Matali, lndra‘s charioteer, reveals himself.

He has been sent by Lord Indra to

fetch Dusyanta to the heavens to quell demons there.

Dusyanta accepts the invitation.

Scene 7: In the Celestial Chariot, and later, on the Slopes 0f the Hemakuta Range
Having subdued the demons, Dusyanta is on his way back to earth in the celestial
chariot. En route he visits the Asrama of the sage Maricha.
Near the hermitage the King is attracted by the pranks of a little boy who is giving
his attendants a difﬁcult time.
One of them goes oﬁ‘ to fetch him a toy.
Dusyanta
approaches the child and his close resemblance to the child arouses the astonishment of
t_he attendant. Dusyanta learns that the child is Sakuntalas and that she is staying at the
Asrarn a .
Sakuntala enters. The King expresses his regret and explains how he regained
his memory on discovery of the ring.
United at last, they go to the sage Maricha who
blesses them and foretells that their son Will become a great King and gain the name
Bharata.
Dusyanta sings the ﬁnal benediction.

