1प्रगा२१य८ Symphony Orchestra of India have been performing around the

world and working with renowned ३ conductors, challenges remain

pected from a corporate”. “We’ve
done something that has never
been done before," Says Santook,
I WILL only be truly satisfied
adding, “We have made these
with the accomplishments of
musicians full—tirne employees,
the SymphonyOrchestra of India
with a salary and bonuses."
(501) when a majority of players
The biggest challenge of all,
are Indian," says Khushroo
however, is ﬁnding sponsors or
Santook, Chairman of the,
patrons. “Unlike India. countries
Mumbai-based National Centre
like Germany get huge art sub—
for Performing Arts (NCPA). In
sidies from the government,
the current composition, the or—
whichmeans they don’t have to
chestra comprises 75 musicians,
worry too much about making
and only 15 are Indian. Yet, this
money," Santook says. Besides
is a long way from when they
trainingexpenses, there are a lot
started —— in 2006. by Suntook
of costs one incurs as a musiand internationally renowned The Symphony Orchestra ofIndiaduring a performance
cian, especially one that's con—
violin
virtuoso,
Marat
३ stantly travelling. “Taking care
Bisengaliev. Back then, Indian
ofinstruments is more difﬁcult
musicians formed a minuscule ductors such as Charles Dutoit, volved. and don't encourage
than attending to half a dozen
ﬁve percent ofthe orchestra.
Johannes Wildner and Adrian
their childrento play," he says. A babies,” he says.
The 501 is celebrating its 10th
Leaper. and soloists such as vio—
reason may bethe substandard
Santook says people will
anniversary this year. Under the linist Augustin Dumay, pianist
quality of previous orchestras. I “giveto all sorts ofrubbishyfuncguidance of Bisengaliev, now
Barry Douglas and tabla maes—
“As excellent as weare in Indian tions but won't spend money to
their music director. and Zane troZakir Hussain.The NCPA has
support talented artists". There
music, we are poor in Western
Dalal. the associate music direc— V even launched a well—reputed music," says Santook, adding,
is no communityfeeling ofowntor, the SOI went from being a bit youth orchestra programme that “Those who learn it end up
ership when it comes to the
ofthegamble forthe NCPA to en— mentorsyoung children.
playing in bars and restaurants.
city’s musicians, he says, conjoying mounting support and
The struggles, however,'still Without the proper rnentorship trasting it to the support that
more recently, sold—out auditoremain and Santook says. a and support, how could they Mumbai’s cricket team — back
riurns. It remains India's only huge part of it is finding good have ever improved?"
when it was called the Bombay
I professional orchestra, and over players. “There’s a general lack
To ensure players are able to Ranj i - enjoyed. “We were so
theyears. has performed around of interest in Western classical devote their time to honing their proud of them," says Santook.
the world and worked with in- music here. Most parents beskills. musicians at the 501 are adding, “I wish we had those '
ternationally-renowned conlieve there isn't any money inpaid “as much as can be ex—
sentiments for our musicians."

RADHIKA SINGH -

