,

i

‘he charming ‘lSaeed

… ey :
1’

ii;
4-

ed drearriing of their ‘cooked to per—
fection’ crusty pizzas, laced with
mozzarella cheese and salami and
- sun-dried tomatoes, during the drive.

RASHMI OBEROI
r

WHE news of Saeed Jaffrey’s pass-

ing away left me with a twinge of

I

sadness, not onlybecause he was
a screen legend and a veteran actor of
innumerable ‘Bollywood and international«ﬁlms, but also for another special
reason. My one meeting with him had

headed towards the entrance. ' Raj,
by far t '३ most mischievous one,
had sud fenly grabbed one of my.

have always admired his versatility.
_ . What a performance he would give on
screen; he had a knack of keeping
one spellbound.
This goes back to the nineties. I was
recovering from a major accident in

Bombay and had just started the slow
process from being bed-bound to get-

promise that I would belback in time.

' ting ‘ mobile. ‘ I was soon hObbling' ‘

Suddenly, freedom had a Whole new
meaning and my wicked gang decid-

was to get permission from my d0ctor

ed to head out to "I‘rattoria’ which

for १ a Saturday night out-pass. My

was the hottest hangout at the Taj
Hotel then. Famous for its Italian cuisine, it also boasted of a stylish, but
casual ambience. I had already start-

puppy-dog expressions finally had
the stern man allowing me to leave
the hospital for a few hours on the

being

and armed with my crutches, had

left an indelible print on my mind. I

around on crutches 'and the next step

distinctly remember

helped out of the" car- by my friends

\.

.

“What’s this young lady? A calamity

of a sympathetic nature or there’s
more to this than meets the eye?”
When I whirled around, I stood face
to face with Saeed Jaffrey. I think I
gave him the broadest smile ever and
his eyes sparkled in amusement

When I related the whole story. He was

extremely witty and had all of us, in
splits. He cracked a few jokes and
crutches With a glint in his eyes, and then gave me a huge hug and walked
whispered, “We need to make a into 'Irattoria. We followed albeit a few
grand stért to' the evening. Watch minutes later as we were too stunned
the fun jaow.” So, that evening, I ‘ and star-struck to even move. ३
walked through the imposing doors, . I I ,recall we had a lovely evening full
escortediby friends, hand in hand of fun and laughter and a scrumpwith Raj ifs/ho had one of my crutch- tious meal to boot. JuSt when we had
.es in his left hand. He made it even sat back to contemplate the dessert, a
more dramatic by tucking in his ' huge platter of an assortment of pastries and tarts made an appearance.
right leg.
The evergreen, dashing gentleman to
I know We got a whole lot of stares,
smiles and amusing glances. While _ the core, Saeed Jaffrey had sent it across. With a twinkle in his "eyes and
crossing the lobby area, I had someone tap me on my back and in a crisp a wave of his hand, he walked away,
British accent v heard the words, making us hisfans for llfe. _ औ-.::.,
A

In - ' I is

