Poetic Injustice

D | PANITA NATH
i५
WHEN THEATREdirector Lokeshjairris an»
gry with the stateofthe nation,he seeks kindling m the poems of famouspoet Baba
Nagarjuna He had ﬁrst read him at 18 and
been coopted by the unusual conceits and
rriulti-layered wit —which makes his forthcomingplay on the poetrriore than 20 years
inthe making
Nagarjuna's poems are as rusticand eccentric asthe rriari wasA wanderer,who was
famously unable to stay in a place long
enough. Nagarjuna visited the deepinteriorsoflndia and wrote aboutthe people who
had slipped through the cracks. He wrote in
Hindi and Maitliilibetween the '30s and'80;
and the play. Protr'badhh Moon, attempts to
recreate the offbeat humour of imageries.
such as “olpsonkhako ko achor" and “baaki
ieligoya arrda". Theproduaion will be staged
atDelhi‘s StudioSafdar from September 25
to27.
"l have gone through Nagarjuna's 2.000—
2580works, 1 thought ’Why not tie up the
poems in a performance text?’ The poems
become the dialogues the actors speak but
the sub-textis expressedthrough their bodies,” says Lokesh He has used physical theatre toexpress Nagarjuna'sproletariats. from
a labourerto agoarherdto anAdivasi. as त्मा)tagonists of the play. The rehearsal space lS
chaotic as the five actors try to channel the
energy oftheirbodies into controlled vigour;
Sweat flies, rriuscles are pulled and spines
and other organs mined inforceful gestures
“The poemsare fullof metaphors and the actors needed intense movements to on rig
these out through actions,"says the director.
“One thing I saw clearly was that

Nagarjuna spoke against whichever party

spacesand diaracters.
Dead bodies lie on theﬂoorat the beginning ofthe play. As the Buddhist chants
phase in and out — Nagarjuna. a Brahmin.
who converted to Buddhism — the charactersawaken and rise slowly while utteringa
poerriabout unsung heroes “Onlyafew days ‘
have passed. but the world has already forgotten them." they say inHindi. Protibodlrlr
Hoorr, irt which Nagarjuna taddes his existentialisrri. follows seamlesslyand leads into
apaean aboutan uprisinggrass-rootmove—
me rtt t hat contains the first 5 tirri ngs of
axalisrn — Hum nap lu'apneykader

It (the poetry) shows how
communallsm seeps In and
affects the aoonomlcally

weaker class. It lslrnazlng
how so many of Nagarluna‘s’
concernsstlll exlst in our
country
L0 KES H JAIN
क्या EATRE Di REC TOR
wasin power. Duringthe El'nﬂgency,he was

jailed for ll months." says Mesh.as the actors erupt mto apoem aboll! the favourite

pastime of politicians —making announcemerits and promises. “Onllhoshnaye, 0m
bhaslian, 0m provadian, om tribute ....Om
dham‘. . . they chant TheySWllch roles rapidly. prcking up I i ries from one another in

ways that split single poen15Into multiple

' श्या

hiapney mukhi'yajurigle Lru rpalior liamare. . . ,
The actors work with props such as agiant eg that breaks open toreveal shoes— a
symbol of Dalit profession and oppression
Theonly femaleactor inthe group, Lokesh's
wife ChhaviJain is covered in bubble wrap
and plastered with s h है ppirig stickers of
“Fragile”and "This SideUp”.as she begins to
narrate a poem about a poor woman who _
writes to her migrant worker husband to

comehome soon. even if empty handed.
_ WhenNagarjuna travelledto satisfy his
wanderlust. hetold stories ofsubaltems such
as a busdriver; whochats withhim about the
colourful glas bangles ofhis daughmr.and the
rickshaw puller Kalimuddln. whocalls him- ,
self Prem Prakash and wearsdrandan and
rudrokslr to earn aliving ’lhis is oneof the
most powerful poemsIt shows howcommuच
nalism seeps in and affectsthe economically
weaker class."says lokah,before add ing “It is ‘
amazing howso manyof Nagarjuna‘s con- ‘
cerns still existin our country.
The play will be stagedat Dellii":Studio
Sofdarftom SeptenrberZS to 22Contact:
wwwjananatyarrianchrorg
di'panlto nath@expressmdio com
/

