/
माँ

‘
,
दृ
'

‘

(

Payel Sengupta

rI'Ae ﬁve-daylong Jhulanjatra music festival, which had originally begun 150
years ago, was organized at Ramkanai
Adhikari’s traditional house (popularly
known as Jhulanbari), and was a beautiful
celebration of cultural heritage. The ambience of the loveworship of Radha and Krishna as well as the grandeur of monsoon set a
perfect moodfor Indian classical music.
The programme commenced with a dhrupadsung by Satinath Bhattacharya. He main1y focused on ragas like Megh, Bageshree and
ड्डदृआंझुऱट 'I‘he ﬂavour of the ragas made his
Singing style different. Although the ragas
were divergent, the sarod player, Ranaiit Sengupta, gave a linear performance. Startin
g
With Miyan ki Malhar, he continued with Yog
d concluded with a ragmala. 'I‘he sitarist,
Sahana Banerjee, enchanted the audience.

Different styles
She played Behag in an elaborate style,
followed by Megh, and tried her best to capture the essence. She also playedKaﬁ and a bhairavi thumri, whichwere sweet to the ears.
Shakti Nag presented Bageshree in a ﬂute
performance with the able assistance of Panchaianyo Dey Indrani Mukhopadhyay’svocal
recital was arresting (picture, left). Her voice
is skilful andgenerous. ’I‘he vilambit and drut
kheyals in Behag
were enjoyable. She
also presented a
thumri. 'I‘he vocalist, r
Nabhadeep Chakraborty, sang Behag in
his own style. The
final performanceby
M1an Shankar and
Partha Bose could '

have been better: They played Miyan Ki Malhar with a regular structure. The conclusion
with the Raga Khambai lasted long.
The able accompaniments of Biplab Bhattacharya, Sandeep Banerjee, Shashanka Bakshi, Soumen Sarkar and Apurba Mukherjee
on the tabla, Pradip Palit and Biplab Bhattacharya on the harmonium and Ratnakur
Mitra on the pakhawaj gave the festival the
.._.
दृ . >
perfect support. The
३
event was well organized, and there is
scope for getting
even better:
" wargangaorganized a musical
soirée in Ankur;
में which was a tribute

t0 the tabla artist, Anand Bodas. The programme started with a guru bandana by Suha
Sarkar, followed by a Surdasi bhajan, “Naina
bhaye anath hamari”. She also sang a ghazal.
She was accompanied on the tabla by Goutam
Chakraborty and on the ﬂute by Soumyojyoti
Ghosh.
Subir 'I‘hakur and Anindyashankar Sikdar presented a tabla Zahara and focused on
teentaal. The artists played various parans
and toras. They were assisted by Debashish
Karmakar on the harmonium. The vocalist.
Harpreet Singh, made a good beginning with
the Raga Yaman, but ended abruptly and
shifted to ghazals. This could have been
avoided.
The concluding artist, Soumen Sarkar
(picture, right), a student of Anand Bodas.
performed peshkar, kaida, rela, got and
tukras injhamptaal. He learnt his skills from
the F‘arukhabad gharana. He focused on teentaal in his next presentation. Hiranmoy Mitra
accompanied him on the harmonium.

