८.

>
८'
O
_, g .
८; .८ 'This October, the

।०० याँ
irnonilVealth Games of 2010 will bring Delhi alive with festivity, visitdrs and आँ mum,

it will bea time to»
sporting actiOnalféf'Delhi‘; th‘er‘c‘api’tal of‘ India and the host of a prestigious international sporting event,
celebrate its people, itsval ues and the C0untry at large. Delh i will truly be celebrating l

मयज्ञा-मध
Come September the initiative titled, Delhi Celebrates! will launch a two month long festival with cultural
tr), tulle, ta the litany
from all corners of the country. From Bharat Natyam to contemporary fusion dance, Carnatic vocal
different genres oftheatre and art Delhi will come alive with culture in all its vibrance.
As part of the Delhi Celebrates! initiative:

°

Cultural performances will begin on 7th September 201 0 at Di l | i H aat, INA, and continue till 4 November 20W, with
many of lnd ia's finest artists proudly showcasing ।nd i a unique cultural heritage and traditions to the werhld.

° The Government of Delhi will host a range of events at different venues across the city including the Quiet: Miriam
Chandni Chowk, Di । । i Haat and Purana Quila.

The Ministry of Culture, Government of India will organize an elaborate series of pragrammes at their tittilseurris and

cultural centres such as the National School of Drama, Lal it Kala Academy and Sanget Natal; ए४५'गा९
However, Delhi Celebrates! is not just a series of G‘evemment—Qrganized events. it is a festival; that will eleeitiiy दीक्षित
comer of the city from schools and colleges to RWAs, hotels, art galleries, shopping hubs, media and maretAs a secial
initiative, it will strive to im prove com inu n ity development, reinforce local identity and eliminate social inclusion and city
pride. I‘ ether words, it wi I l invigorate the citizens tel proudly proclaim i am 3 Delhi itei

Delhi Celebratesl, is unique in its campaign, in that it dices net enly showcase the city it is named sitesbut also ह्या । parts at
India that are represented here in the Capital. The idea ofshowcasing the country AM it) the city is a lirrsteever viseivis nth-er
gamesi-releted campaigns launched by other hast cities

'

-

