Mirza Ghalib ‘
’Dabeer—uI-Mulk, Naim-ud-daulah Mirza Asadullah Baig Khan pen-name Ghalib
means dominant) and (former pen-name) Asad means lion) (2 7 December 1 797
-—' 15 February 1869), was a classical Urdu and Persian poet from the sub
continent during British colonial rule. During his lifetime the Mughals were
eclipsed and displaced by the British and finally deposed following the defeat of
1857, events that he wrote of. Most notably, he wrote several ghazals during his
life, which have since been interpreted and sung in many different ways by
different people. He is considered, in South Asia, to be the one of the most
popular and influential poets of the Urdu language. Ghalib today remains
popular amongst Urdu speakers not only in India and Pakistan but also amongst

is 7
',
।'

८
।

diaspora communities around the world.

८ I
। I ड़ पृ ट्वें'३ट्वे
l ३ 3८ V
1

३. , 3
; L

३

I 'I

Mirza Ghalib was bOrn in Agra into a fam ily descended from Aibak Turks who
moved to Samarqand after the downfall of the Seljuk kings. His paternal
grandfather, Mi rza Qoqan Baig Khan was a Saljuq Turk who had immigrated to
lndiafrom Samarqand (now in Uzbekistan) during the reign of the Ahmad Shah
(1 748—54), He worked at Lahore, Delhi, and Jaipur, was awarded the subdistrict

of में Pahasu (Bulandshahr, UP) and finally settled in Agra, UP, India. Mirza
- Abdullah Baig Khan and Mirza Nasrullah Baig Khan were two of his sons. Mirza
' ३ Abdullah Baig Khan (Ghalibs father) got married to lzzat-ut-Nisa Begum, and then

की
I

l यँप्रेशां'द्धां the house of his father in law. He was employed first by the Nawab of

' ५ [Lucknow and then the N izam of Hyderabad, Deccan. He died in a battle in 1803

'३ "३

"३३ है 'प्तिणीश्चिद्धाहैज्ञत्माछं was buried at Rajgarh (Alwar, Rajasthan). hen Ghalib was a little»
' ३

: संचय., years of age. He was raised first by his Uncle M i rza Nasrullah Baig Khan.
. y. "3; 3,4: ८'

]में llah. Baig Kl?)an started taikiing care of the three orphaned children, He

‘

A " f éof Agra under the Marathas. The British appointed
i ‘

‘ *riymen, fixed his salary at {is-.1 700.00 month- and aw

1 ’ ' ८ हँ५,८हुँ९हूँहँहँ८ज्वाड्डद्गीगृणाष्ट (UP, India); ख्याच्छाछंनुआं in i may
दृ

.

had awardedlliirnlgglﬁlmas

‘ jihi ,
~’ 5Y

vv
iii

८. - हैं ,1
३ट्वें०ट्वेद्र८हुंच्वंक्योंड्डहृ
1 x ई८

- "

r;

-

a

