The Indian People's Theatre Association was formed
during the Quit India Movement in 1942. Upon its
formal inauguration in 1943-44, l PTA took upon itself
the challenge to bring theatre to the people with the
objective of building awareness about social
responsibility and national integration. IPTA soon
became a movement and swept the length and
breadth of India with its socialistic and nationalistic
fervour.
Born as a result of a long-felt need among writers and
artistes, IPTA brought about a sea of change in the
prevalent concepts about Indian Theatre. It was
formed to co-ordinate and to strengthen all
progressive tendencies that had so far manifested
themselves in the form of drama, songs and dances. Its
roots lay in the cultural awakening of the masses of
India, seeking to revive the cultural heritage of the
country.

IPTA was founded by stalwarts like KA Abbas, Dr.
Bhabha, Anil de Silva, Ali Sardar Jafri and Dada
Sharrnalkar. Over the last six decades many
prominent artistes, writers,

musicians,

directors,

dancers and singers have been a part of IPTA. These
include Arnar Shaikh, Shambhu Mitra,
Krishanchander,

Kaifi Azrni, Majrooh Sultanpuri,

Sahir Ludhianvi, Balraj Sahni, Mohan Segal, Prem
Dhawan, lsrnat Chugtai, Kanu Ghosh, Chetan Anand,
Dina Pathak, Pt. Ravi Shankar, Sachin Shankar,
Bahadur Khan, A.K.Hangal, Habib Tanvir, Abrar Alvi,
Salil

Chaudhari,

Chittoprasad,

Khayyarn,

Shanti

Bardhan,

Harindranath Chattopadhyay,

VP

Sathe, Durga Khote, Keshavrao Date, Utpal Dutt,
Ritwik Ghatak, Satyen Kappu, Sanjeev Kurnar, Zul
Vellani, Shaukat Kaifi, Manmohan Krishna, Basu
Bhattacharya, Abid Razvi, M.S.Sathyu, Kuldip Singh,
Ramesh Talwar, Sulabha Arya, Shabana Azrni,
Farooque Shaikh, Kader Khan, Yunus Parvez, Mac
Mohan, Javed Siddiqi, Sudhir Pande, Aanjjan
Srivastava, Bharat Kapoor, Rakesh Bedi, and many,
many others. The list just goes on and on and would
read like a who's who of Indian art and culture.

Over the past six decades we have been at the

forefront of the theatre movement in the country.
I PTA M umbai till now has staged more than 1 00 plays
in various Indian languages — Hindi, Marathi,
Gujarati, Telugu, Kannada, and Punjabi as well as in
English. 1984 saw the formation of I PTA Balmanch, a
children's theatre wing, which staged plays with
young artistes from different socio-economic
backgrounds.

Apart from staging their Hindi plays at different
venues across India and at select venues abroad, IPTA
also organise an Annual Theatre Festival every year in
the month of May. Their other activities include
performances by their music choir, language classes,
seminars on performing arts, film screenings,
workshops, theatre activities for children, etc. All
IPTA activities are conducted on a non-profit basis
and all members voluntarily participate in these
activities. IPTA is a democratic organisation that has
members from all strata of society.

