KAI F l AZMI (1918-2002)
Kaifi Azm i was born in 1918 in Azamgarh, UP as
Syed Athar Husain Rizvi in a Zarnindar family.
Kaifi Azm i wrote his first ghazal 'ltna To Zindagi
Mein Kisi Ki Khalal Pade' at the age of eleven. It
was immortalized by Begum Akhtar and is sung
even today. He joined the Communist Party at
the age of 1 9 and joined Ali SardarJafri in writing
for the party's paper, 'Qaum i J ung' and moved to
Bombay.
Kaifi, along with Faiz and Makhdoom formed the
troika of modern revolutionary Urdu poetry. This
poetry has served to inspire and delight
generations of Urdu-lovers throughout the
world. Its combination of romantic idealism and
sympathy with the exploited classes has fi red the
imagination of successive generations of Urdu
poets who followed in, their wake. Kaifi's first
collection of poems lhankar was published in
1943. Later collections include Awara Saide and
Sarma ya .

selection of his film lyrics and the script. of अ-मधि-जैम._

_

Ranj ha in Devnagri.

Shortly after Independence, a group आँ £5371
progressive writers, theatre persons
_

musicians migrated to Bombay. While directd‘ts , "3 '
like B i mal Roy and Khwaja Ahmed Abbas strove
to create the "New Cinema”, Saliir,'Jan-Ni.ss‘a;.§;
‘Akhtar, Majrooh, and Kaifi changed the ‘téntﬁ

and vocabulary of the Hindi film song. Kai
wrote his first lyric for the film Buzdiil direct
^"
Shahid Lateef in 1952. His noted film son '

Hanste Zakhm, Arth etc.

Apartl'from

songs, he also wrote Chetan Anahd's f'li‘n

Ranjha entirely in verse and created
dialogue writing. He won the National;
and Filrnfare Award for the s_ (

Hawa. Kaifi also acted in Saeé
winning fi l m Naseem .

Kaifi's work was not confined to the printed
page. In his youth he was an ardent tradeunionist and later became a social and cultural
activist. He believed that poetry should be used
as an instrument for social change and wrote
several poems against cornrnunalisrn, religious
fundamentalism and for the rights of woman.
His best known poems are 'Aurat',
Makaan',’Daaera','Saanp', 'Bahuroopn'i' etc.
His published works include Jhankar, Aakhir — e
— Shab, Awara Sajde, Sarrnaya, Kaifiyaat, 'Kaifi
Azmi selected poems', 'Nai Gulistan' an
anthology of articles, 'Meri AWaaZ'Suno' a

-

३

Just a few weeks before .hisgilernfise,‘ K '

made a Fellow of the sahityaﬁkaﬂemi
Urdu poet to be thus ho_nour»_;ed.§l-lé?ha's s एँहँहैहीँ'

awarded with the Padma Shii * M ar 4‘ ही
Gaurav Award, Yuva _ Bharti’iyigAward,

Government State Award: the; pr
internationa-l‘ Afro-Asian
.
along with countless otherﬁawafds. पृ 4."
He was the All India यभू९प्तसा२२१

People's Theatre Asso'c'ia in
active member of the ट्वें३

Association (‘PWA)'f.

'

३

३ "

३१

