LIFE OFPREMCHAND
_ Premchand

' हैं '

to Mahatma G' है

operation with
1 devoted his full
attention to ertI
ppeared in the
magazine Zamana p
Kanpur. In his
early short stories he depicted the patriotic upsurge
that was sweeping the land in the first decade of the
past century. Soz-e-Watan, a collection of patriotic ’
stories published by Premchand in 1 907, attracted the
attention of the British Government In 1914, when
Premchand switched over to Hindi, he had already
established his reputation as a fiction writer in Urdu.
His novels describe the problems of the urban
middle-class and the countryas villages and their
problems. H is famous works include Godan, Maidane-Amal, Bay-wah, Chaugaan etc.lt would not be
wrong to say that Premchand was the Father of Urdu
short— stories. Short stories or afsanas were started by
Premchand. As with his novels, his afsanas also mirror
the society that he lived in. His famous afsanas are
Qaatil Ki Maan, Zewar Ka Dibba, Gilli Danda,
Eidgaah, Namak Ka Daroga and Kafan. His collected
stories have been published as Prern Pachisi, Prern
Battisi, Wardaat and Zaad-e—Raah. Premchand was
the first Hindi author to introduce realism in his
writings. He Supplemented Gandhijis work in the
political and social fields by adopting his
revolutionary ideas as themes for his literary writings.
His greatness lies in the fact that his writings embody
social purpose and social criticism rather than mere

L the British he q

Laml ' 11

as married when he was 15 and
_ father'al'so died and after passing
"’e had to Stop his study. He got a job
primary school. In 1 91 9, he passed
.
w h English, Persian and History. After a
I 33 of promotions he became Deputy Inspectors of

३ Gh'OOIS.
Premchand was married at fifteen years to a girl from
a neighboring village but the marriage was a failure
and when he left the village in 1899, the girl returned
to her village. Several years later, in 1909, he married
a yOungwidow named Shivrani Devi. This step was
considered to be revolutionary at that time and
Premchand had toface a lot of opposition.
A pioneer of modern Hindi and Urdu social fiction,

Munshi Premchand wrote nearly 300 stories and
novels. Among h is best known novels are: Sevasadan,
Rangmanch, Gaban, Nirmala and Godan. Much of
PrerrtCliaridas best work are 250 or so short stories,
collected in Hindi under the title Manasarovar. Three
of his novels have been made into films. In response

entertainment. Literature according to him is a

powerful means of educating public opinion.
Premchand died in 1936 and has since been studied
both in India and abroad as one of the greatest writers

of the century.

