Daura Laat S aheb ka S atisﬁes not only the aesthetic needs ofthe selected audience but also provided
healthy entertainment to the casual theatre goers.
- National Mail, Bhopal

Bhediya Tantra. . directed by Irfan Saurabh staged by talented Children of career school was
appreciated by the audience... Searing stire on today’s politics.
- National Mail, Bhopal
Alakhnandan Playwright & Director, recently presented Chanda Bedni at the N.C.P.A.’s

Experimental Theatre and at the Ravindra Natya Mandir is against certain standard conventions...
Certain scenes were extremely well worked out in terms of movements... with so many innovetions

and attempts and breaking new grounds... Ranjana who played Chanda gave an outstanding
performance.
- Debonair, Bombay

Chanda Bedni a musical drama based on popular folklore conveys a revolutionary message in a
highly effective manner... directed by Alkhnandan and produced by Nata Bundele, at Kanker in B astar

district. Over 5000 people withnessed it. The writer was withness of the enthusiastic appreciation of
the play by Kanker audience.
- Dainik Bhaskar, Bhopal

Chanda B edni. . . The very noteable feature which was also its out standing point was the absolutely

relaxed acting.

- Nagpur Times, Nagpur
‘Nat Bundela’ has been pro ducting all types of plays from last one decade or more, and now after
getting success in staging children plays. It will make further efforts to prepare more productions with

children. Many others have also tried their hands at it, though not so consistently. While no one would
grudge a word of praise for ‘Nat Bundela’ especially when it entered in the sphere of children threatre
with aplomb and seriousness. One feels it is also time someone decides to ﬁnd out how many of the
children so trained have graduated into sound actors or have taken to theatre or performing arts. The
answer to this question assumes importance in view of the dwindling fortune of theatre, especially in
the capital.

- National Mail, Bhopal

