( 25 )
Anoher Hit from Kala Sangan
When the Story of revolution of the performing arts of Bihar will be written the role
of the Kala Sangam will figure in it as the storming Bastille of the french revolution.

We had occassion to see yet another vastly absorbing play from the group.
Phool Ka Naarn L0 is based on crime Psychology.
As Kamini Vandana Sharma giving her best performance.
expressive face, a good stage presence.

Kisi Ek

She has an attractive

The other lady is new comer Rashmi Sinha.

perhaps the most commendable trait that she reveals is her complete relexation on the
stage. As sauve, sophisticated director role was Suman Kumar.

His reactions, perfect

timing of his movements, his Spontaneous laugheter are mute comment upon his long

experience on stage.

Satish Anand regales it once again in a Comic role.

ShakherSinha

gracefully polished good in bits. Basant Kumar like others a two faced role to play. handles

the tragic as well as the comic with great case.
have to day.

But then, he is one of the best actors we

Perhaps the ﬁrst time in recent years the music and lighting for the play come
up to the level of the direction and acting of Kala Sangam.
The flight of Kamini’s imagination is dealt with beautifully by the director who

relates it to the audience through well composed flash backs, cunningly juxtaposed with
actual flow of events.
All in all, the play comes as yet another feather to cap of Kala Sangam.
Sameer Garg, Searchlight, August, 13, 1978

A Play for J. P’s Birth Day
Mr. Jayprakash Narayan's Birth Day activities this year started by a show Singhasan

Khali hai put up by Kala Sangam under the direction of Satish Anand.

The play has been

staged by the Kala Sangam several times before in Patna and has been lauded by the theatre
lovers of the city for its powerful script and excellent presentation.
Vineet
situations,
comic
the
as
well
as
serious
the
in
impact
an
makes
rehman
Jamilur
makes the perfect chamcha. Hari Saran Sets the two off well.
as her husband Pervez Akhatar,

has a powerful voice.
roles.

Shruti Sukla as mahila,

Suman Kurnar as sutradher was also commendable.

He

Satish Anand as Neta has already be seen in serious as well as comic

But as the stupid, cunning. scheming Neta, he outdoes him self.

Singhasankhajj

hai needs to be staged like Juloos on larger scale, for a larger audience.
Sameer Garg, Searchlight, Patna. October 15, 1978

