( 51

)

as Sutradhar have excelled.

mother, Kanhaiya as Ram-

Mala

as Rampiari,

kripal Singh, Umashankar as

tion of Maila

Kavita Kundra as Lakshmi,

Bishwanath and others pro-

come up as a milestone in the

Anjana Bhanti as Kamali’s

vided meaningful support

ﬁeld offolk theatre.

Uppal

To sum up. the producAnchal

has

The Hindustan Times. Patna, Saturday, December 26, 1987

A

Good

Production

The amalgam of songs, dance and acting can only be found in Indian folk forms,
Bikhari Thakur—the artiste of the masses-had fruitfully exploited different folk forms (jatra,
Baul, Bihu, Ankia, Nautanki, Kirtania etc) in his plays which was commonly known as

"Launda Naach”.

Kala Sangam-a leading theatre group of the State Capital gave the

name "Bidesia" to this form and staged Shudrak’s ‘Mrichchakatika‘ as 'Matigari’ adop-

ted by Hrishkesh Sulabh and directed by Satish Anand at Kalidas Rangalaya.

The prese-

ntation of plays with its own distinctiveness has cought the imagination of theatre lovers
of Patna.

The performance of all the artistes was extremely well.
sena) needs special mention for her tough role brilliantly acted.

Ahindra (Vit), Kavita Kundra (Nari) and Kanhaiya

Pooja Verma (Vasant-

Krishan Murari (Vidushak)

performed well while Sumar Kumar

(Sarvilak) and Vineet Jha (Aryak) were a bit louder.

Though little to do, Sanjay Jha,

Deepu, Appu and Mala Uppal, were impressive.
Music having local flavour composed by Ajeet Akela and assisted by Ashok

Pandey (dholok, nal ‘ was good.
To give rustic look, general light was used by S.

N.

Mishra instead of

blocked light.
The director’s imaginative brain wonderfully depicted passionate scenes through
perfect symbolization.
used.

To establish different characters different types of movements were

The director, Satish Anand, who also portrayed Shakar gave a new dimension to

his role with touch of humour, which gloriﬁed the complete production.

The neatness of the play itself speaks of the labour that has gone into it. Kala

Sangam has once again proved that is one of the tap theatre group in this zone.
Pushker Sinha, The Hindustan Times, Patna, Saturday, January 2, 1988

