l 56 )
नृत्य और संगीत भी है |

एक ही दृश्य में सम्पूर्ण नाटक की प्रस्तुति विशेष प्रशंसनीय है ।

मुख्य भूमिका अदा

की है नीलेश, कृष्ण मुरारी, कविता कुन्दा, पूजा वर्मा और सतीश आनन्द ने, संवाद भोजपुरी में हैं, किन्तु हिन्दी समझने वालों के लिए सरल हैं ।

एक था गधा हास्य व्यंग्य नाटक है असके लेखक हैं शरद, जोशी ।

दैनिक विश्वामिवा कलकत्ता, २१ सितम्बर, १ट८८
Excellent

Teamwork

Kala Sangam of Patna presented Ek Tha Gadha at Kala Mandir on September
Regarded as the most successful group in

18 under the auspices of Sangeet Kala Mandir.

Bihar. Kala Sangam proved its mettle in staging sharad Joshi’s satire by exhibiting a high
degree of professionalism.
Ek Tha Gadha tells the story of the ruling class.

A poor washerman’s donkey

called Aladad Khan dies, and this news is brought to the Nawab by the Kotwal.

The

Nawab, believing the deceased to be a poor man, takes the opportunity of buying popularity from the people and decides to hold a state mourning
0n the day of the burial the Nawab gets to know that Aladad Khan was, in fact,

a donkey but. all arrangements done, it is impossible to stop the state funeral.

In the

meantime, the Nawab passes the death sentence on the Kotwal on the charge of deceiving

the state.

The Kotwal, on the other hand.

gets hold of a man by the name of Aladad

Khan and brings him to the Nawab. Aladaad is told that he must sacrifice his life for the
sake of his country.
Perfect teamwork is the forte of Kala Sangam.

Satish Anand in the role of the

Nawab proved his ability both as an actor and as the director of the grou
p.

Subroto Ghosh, Telegraph, Calcutta, 30 September
, 1988

A ﬁne blend of folk art
and modern drama.
When Satish Anand presented Amli, a drama on a conte
mporary theme in 1984
n
'

as part of the Assrstance to Young Directors programme, a new chapte
r was added to
annals of Indian thearte. For, it was with this drama the Bideshiya form
of theatre
originated in Bihar, introduced to the modern theatre stage. This
combination of
’

art and modern drama proved to be a great success.

the
that
f”0 1k

