58
)
(
needs to be patronised by the people and for that we have to reach the people.
perform in different localities at suitable timings.

We should

We should perform straight social plays-

dealing with our day-to day problems and we should do comrnedies of good taste.
Since Independence, Bombay, calcutta and Delhi have gradually grown as important centres for Hindi theatre.

Bhopal with Rang Mandal joined much later....

Kala Sangam (Patna) and theatre Arts Workshop (Lucknow) are the other two
important groups who have been mOre active in the Hindi belt.

With Satish Anand and

Raj Bisaria as the guiding forces behind these groups, they have been doing good produc-

tions and with more frequency...
SESQUICEN TEN NIAL
The Times of India. CULTURE, Page-91, October, 1988
New Delhi

All Caught in a. Cobweb
The play begins from almost on ex-

in Kala Sangam’s production of the

plosive point where Savitri, around whom

play at the Bhartiya Nritya Kala Mandir

the plot revolves, says that her 22 years

on October 13 and 14 Satish Anand played

that she had spent with her husband have

all the male characters except that of Ashok

been like a nightmare. Mahendranath is fa-

In fact, Mohan Rakesh himself had inten-

ther of her three children but is not a man

ded that it be so.

with a distinctive personality of his own and

are different-in thought, in attitude and in

self-confidence.

But her tragedy is that all

action-and Satish showed once again that

other men she has come in contact with

he has the range and capability to do justice
to each one of them.

Singhania. Jagmohan and Juneja-are also
“incomplete” in some respect or the other.

Each of these characters

The erauma she undergoes, therefore, affects

Anjana Bhanti gave to herself all
that the role of Savitri demanded of her.

everyone-her two daughters, her son and,

It was a sensitive portrayal of a very com-

of course, her husband too.

cters of Adhe Adhurc have a past to brood

plicated character and will remain etched
in the mornory of Patna’s theatre lovers for

over, but neither has present to reckon with

quite sometime.

nor a future to look to.

All the chara-

They all appear

caught in a cobweb and evoke more pity
than contempt.

Pooja Verma as the elder
daughter was subtle, expressive and effortless.

She brought out very effectively the
anguish over the realization that the disin-

