DE LH l A RT THE ATRE
Flat 36, Shankar Market,

Connaught Circus

New Delhi-100011

Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution
in promoting and enriching theatre.
Its productions have been acclaimed not only in
Delhi but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and beyond. Particularly in
the field of operas and musical dramas the group under the direction of Sheila Bhatia has
carved a uniqe and unrivalled place for itself. It is gratifying to note that those who till
recently scoffed at this genre are ethusiastically adopting or attempting to introduce music
and dance in their plays. We can take legitimate pride as the innovators and creators of
this movement as we always believed that Indian theatre, if it has no take firm roots cannot
do without integrating song, dance and drama based on indigenous forms using modern
techniques.
Probably ours is the only group which has experimented with original plays or operas
and musicals in the three major languages of this region, namely, Punjabi, Urdu, and Hindi.
The themes of our plays deal with burning social and human problems. We don’t depend on
adaptations or translations.
Our productions, to name a few, like Heer Ranjha, Prithviraj Chauhan, Ghalib-

Kaun-Hai, Chann-Badlan-Da,
Jugni,

Dard

Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka-Hawa Se Hippie Tak, Nadir Shah,

Aye Ga-Dab-e Paon, Yeh

landmarks in Indian

Ishq

Nahin

Assan

etc., were all

hailed as

theatre and were performed in all major cities and towns of India.

They created a stir and were treated as setting a new trend in experimental and innovative
theatre. But it also creates many problems. The biggest is to ﬁnd a cast of actor-singers
who can act as well as sing. We don’t use mikes. But the modern music schools, TV,

Radio, ﬁlms have only produced crooners. The quality of, inner emotion and stress is
missing. But we are still lucky to possess a few artistes who can match in capacity and
capability the best found anywhere.

This is due to strenous training and the desire to improve.

Delhi has still not achieved adulthood in theatre. Out of a population of seven million
hardly a few thousands are frequent theatre goers. Somehow it has not reached all levels of
people and remain basically a limited middle class phenomenon. We are lucky that most of
our productions draw large audiences. We can perform for a long run. But irony Is that
despite good houses the more we perform the more we lose. The cost of a performance
for our specialized theatre is very high. The expenses on live orchestra, artistes, hall rent,
publicity, transport etc. become crippling. But we go on in the hope that one day We will

square up.
This time the group is presenting an original and novel musical drama in Punjabi
Sulagdey Darya by Sheila Bhatia inspired by the poignant poetry of BULLE SHAH. This deals

with the tragic life of a woman who dare step out of the rigidly enforced orthodox customs.

