A Note on the Play
eighteenth century.
The locale is a village in Punjab during the second half of the
rotten weight. First
Times were terrible. The Mughal Empire had collapsed under its own
the
Nadir Shah and then Ahmad Shah Abdali dealt the ﬁnal death blows. They ravaged
the hordes of the
once prosperous and peaceful Punjab. The anti-social elements besides
invaders took to plunder; everywhere robbery, abductions and murder took place; gangs
else. Utter
of robbers closed the roads to trade and peaceful traﬂic ; everyone fought everyone
desolation and disorder seized the province. People lived in fear and insecurity. Superstition, ignorance, illiteracy and orthodoxy were the hall marks of life. Bigoted Mullahas
were the arbiters of the social and religious life. Woman’s position as ever was worse. A
step outside the rigidly comformist customs was enough to darrm her. She was condemned
and hounded.

1n the midst of this turmoil lived a great poet Bulle Shah. Fearlessly and courageously
he raised his powerful voice against the oppressors. Be they be nobles, kings, mullahs, pandits
or landlords. He condemned and denounced the dacoits and murderers and the governors
who were too weak and cowardly to protect life and property. He condemned hypocrisy,
cant and intolerance in society. His poignant poetry expressed the pangs of his time.
Our country has produced giants whose sayings are great, sublime and thought
provoking. But why have we remained backward and millions are still in the grip of
superstition, ignorance and shackles caste.

This and many other questions have been agitating the mind. And thus the desire
to ' study and project the thoughts of the great giants who have made efforts to break through
this statemate.
Amongst many such efforts only last year I studied and dramatised Akbar and now
Bulle Shah. Why did their thoughts and ideas failed to shake society out of its stupor:
Why do- these great contributions appear and disappear like meteors ? These questions
remain unanswered. But the thoughts of thinkers still remain great. Thus this humble
effort of Suladge Darya. The times of Bulle Shah as mentioned earlier , smouldered with uneasiness, insecurity, raids and strifes which were reﬂected in his poetry. To project Bulle
Shah’s poems in a dramatic form was a big challenge: His awareness of his times, his search
for the identity of the individual in the vast stream of humanity suggested to me the themeIndividual versus the Society — an age old theme.

play are not time bound.

The characters and situations depicted in the

Some story of this nature could have existed in Bulle Shah’s times.

The tragedy of Jagiraan can take place at any time, past and present.

time can show its teeth of intolerance.

The society at any

Charkha (spinning wheel) is important in Bulle Shah’s

