Some scenes from 'Andha Yug' which was then underway was wrtnessed by
Dr. Lal, during the rehearsals. Kala Sangam stands indebted guidance.

The close of the year saw the completion and successful presentation of Dr.
Dharamvir Bharati’s 'Andha Yug' The director’s hard work, training of raw
artists. painstaking attention to each detail of light, sound and movement, went
towards achieving such an effective impression that each scene seemed a painting

poetically framed.

Vijay Tendulkar’s 'Khamosh, Adalat Jari Hai !’ was staged in 1974 and
once again it was the histrionic abilities of Vinita Agrawal that came as a highlight
of the play. Others, who

were also good in their roles were Navneet Sharma

Satish Anand. Kumkum Rastogi, Shailendra Jha and Uma Shanker etc. As for
Satish Anand’s directoial talent, he proved himself a master of his subject by the
intelligent use of his character, by swiftness of the movments employed, and the
ciear and effective use of the freezing technique.

This technique was being used in Patna for the ﬁrst time.
It was a proud day indeed for Kaia Sangam when Mr. Tendulkar himself
witnessed a casual presntation of 'Khamosh, Adalat Jari Hai !'. The late

Phanishwar Nath ‘Renu’ and Prof. Nilanjana Agrawal were also present. Mr.
Tendulkar was greatly appreciative, and he said “Your swift movements seem entirely

a new innovation to me. Had I had those movements in mind while writing the play
perhaps the play could have been Still better written. I can well imagine how well you
must have done it in one of your ﬁnal presentation.“
In the last week of April ‘75, Kala Sangam presented 'Pagla Ghora' by

Bandal Sircar. In this play it was yet another artist, Vinita Singh, who came to the

lime light with her, well-portrayed triple role, Santish Anand, Basant Kumar, Suman
Kumar, Umesh were also well appreciated.

In Dec. ‘75, and early Jan. ’76 Kala Sangam presented Mohan Rakes'n’s
'Asharh Ka Ek Din’ which again met with unprecedented success. For Kala
Sangarn it was indeed a glorious chapter added to its already impressive list.
In 'Asharh Ka Ek Din' Satish Anand excelled himself the lead role of the
l o ve-l or n tormented K a l i d a s .

