Vinita Singh in the difﬁcult role of Mallika gave a memorable portrayal. Nav-

neet Sharma

as Ambika, Suman Kurnar a Vilome, Basant Kumar as Matul

were able to convey their feelings with conviction and authenticity.

On Jan. 4th ‘76 Kala Sangam met to commemorate the anniversary of the

great dramatist ‘Bharatendu Harishchandra’. Phanishwar Nath ‘Renu’, presided
over the function ‘Sarat Sandhya’ while the famous writer and dramatist Vishnu

Prabhakar was chief guest.

After the big success of ‘Asharh Ka Ek Din' f'our show of famous play
wright Girish Karnad’s ‘Tugluq’ in 1976 were steps forward in Kala Sangam’s

contribution in the history of Hindi stage in Bihar. For the ﬁrst time in Bihar,
Kala Sangam endeavoured

to stage this diﬁicult play with f'orty characters at

Bhartiya Nritya Kala Mandir, Patna. With most of the artistes new to the stage,
Satish Anand the director of the play took pains to train them resulting into

most lively performance, which was highly acclaimed. 'I‘ugluq performed, presented
and viewed on large scale was followed by the repetition

of the collosal hit

AN DHA Y U G .
हैं

The latest innovation that was effected by the enterprising Satish Anand was

the presentation of the Katha Gayak in Sutra—dhar style on the stage, as this had
attraction of relating the audience intimately with the characters at the same

time maintaining the depth and distinction of the mythological setting of the play.

The

exepcrime‘ntation

with this technique was greatly applauded. Sriram

Pandey in the role of Kathagayak thrilled the audience by his melodious voice.

Nath
Onkar
'Ihakur
(Vidur),
Verma
Kant
Kiran
fame
TUGLUQ
Artistes of
(Kripacharya), Jamilur Rahaman (Kritvarma), Shanta Jaitley (Gandhari), Ajay

Sulabh
h
Hrgshikes
r),
(Yudhisthi
Mehrotra
Arvind
(Prahri).
n
Harishara
and
Kumar
(Dhritrashtra) excelled in their respective roles.

This year in the month of April & May, Kala Sangm had the privilege of

staging for the ﬁrst time in India, ‘Thahra Hua Pani' a play by Shanti Mehrotra.
This play deals with the contemporary problems of present day tensions

created by the friction of past & present—-the traditions, the believes & the norms

