Stage ExPerience as a Female Artist
*

S h rut i S h u k I a

This sort of a thing invites to be written by a greying old thespian, basking
luxuriously in the mellow glow set off by a bunchful of Silve-polished trophies
reclining upon an expensive mantlepiece, as she smudly rests back on her laurels,
earned industriously ever half a dozen decades.

I am afraid, I am not at all suited if one goes by this. Niether am I suited to

write about the problems faced by female artistes who have to tear themselves away
from their homes and families. I am glad to say that during the long hours spent in

rehearsals, my children are well-looked after by my parents. I do not even have to

worry about their school-work, for my father-very sweetly supervises that.
However, not all the ladies away for rehearsals can say that, for, not all of

them have someone at home to wipe their children’s noseas. and very few, I bet have
husbands versed well enough in the cuilinery arts to enable his spouse to go about

the pursuits of the theatrical arts in peace.

But jokes apart, speaking from the view-point of an orthodox small-towner, let
me speak about the difﬁculties faced by ladies when the glitter of the arc-lights lures
theam on to the stage ......... Great is the heady sensation of stepping out of the wings

on to the stage; great is the thrilling shock of that small moment of temerity; great
is the realisation that there before you is a velvety sea of fathomless Space, which is
never the less potent and alive, which through its watchful silence somehow sustains

you in place like a ......... well ......... for want of a better word ......... like a Star.
But then the moment slips away, like a silver-spangled cobweb ......... and the

ﬂow of the dialogues, voices, moods, emotions and movements takes over ......... and
you feel yourself billowing and buﬁ'eting alone on the crest of th: smooth ﬂowing

wave created by the master minds of the director and the writer of the play.
Then, just as great is the moment of inevitable conf'orntation ......... as, blinking

