reality was quite contrary to my expectations. It was work, and hard exhaustive
work there. My wonderful ideas whizzed out of my head after only a week of
rehearsals.

In fact I had even started wondering if it was all worthwhile, when came

the day of the show of my ﬁrst play with Kala Sangam, “Thahara Hua Pani.” And
' then I changed my mind again. The magic, the sense of achievement swept aside all

my doubts. The tiring rehearsals became a glorious whirl of amusing anecdotes to be
stand forever. Now of course, with one more play, “Ballavapur Ki Rupkatha”

behind me there is nothing. which I ﬁnd more

exhilarating,

challenging and

rewa rd i ng.

The ﬁrst role that I got more that of Rama in “Thahra Hua Pani.”- it was a

difﬁcult role to say the least. I had to portray the emotions of a young girl over a
period ﬁve eventful years which change her from a happy-go-lucky girl to a comp-

letely brittle one, best by doubts and pursued by conﬂicting emotyons, In the
beginning of the play, Rama is happily and romantically in love with the proverbial
boy next door, Shyam. But the affair turns sour when he leaves her to get engaged

to another girl. A disillusioned Rama turns on the rebound to the very next man
she meets, who is unfortunately married. Yet with all the optimism of youth, she
hopes of a happy married life with him, when his wife, who is seriously ill and not

expected to live, leaves this world. The futility of it all comes to light when his wife
is declared out of danger. This is the ﬁnal crushing blow, which leaves Rama in a
vaccum, at the cross roads of life, when each road seems as bleak as the other.
How far I was able to live the role, the audience alone can say. But for
myself, I can say that I was not completely involved with the role, and hence mV
9
.

portrayal was not convincing enough. This may have been because Rama and I were
as contrary in character as any two girls of roughly the same age can possibly be,

For precisely the same reason, I found the role of Chanda in Bahavapur Ki
Rupkatha, much easier. On the whole the role was much less complicated and
emotional. Her character too was not alien to mine, and so my involvement was
greater. Again a question of actual portrayal arises, but in this case I feel that I was
more successful.

.
‘ .
.
.
.
.
Now the acting bug has JUSt got into my blood, acting is fast becoming as
necessary as eating.

