Maya 8 i n h a

‘k

The desire for acting which had been crushed after my life in Patna Women’s
College, was once more roused with my joining Kala Sangam in 1977.
My ﬁrst play was a comedy “Ballava Fur Ki Roopkatha”. In it, I was to

enact the role of “Swapana”, a woman who dominates her husband and is determined not to buy the house, which her husband is bent upon buying at any cost,

because her daughter Chhanda has fallen for the owner of the house Bhupati. The
character was in enacting it, for it demanded too much of scolding on my partChhanda, Bhupati, then Haldar and not to bare, Bhupati’s friend, Sanje'ev all were
to get a dose of scolding from Swapana. But the interesting but felt hesitent and

nervous regorous practice of three months and the encouragement of the director his

overcome my hesitency and it was with a mixed feelings of enthusiasim, a bit
nervousness and little of conﬁdence too, that I gave my ﬁrst performance of my life
before a public gathering. The response I got was very encouraging and inspiring.

The only other play of my stage acting is “Ashadh‘ Ka Ek Din”, and althogh
I have not appeared on the stage with the play-it will be put up in the Play Festive!

I speak of my role on the basis of my practice. It is the character of Ambika, the old
mother of Mallika, which I have to portray and this is a character of mixed

emotions, needing a lot of concentration and devotion. The life of Ambika speaks of

poverty and hardships. Her approch to life is very realistic and- hence she believes in
no emotions or sentiments. There fore, althogh she loves her daughter immensely,
she equally dislikes her association with Kalidas. She tries to covance her daughter
“Bhavana” does not fulﬁls the necessities of life and still, when Mallika deﬁes her
mother and goes to meet Kalidas, Ambika is complitely shakened, yet motherly love

for Mallika is not shakened. Such is the character of Ambika and I ﬁnd it much

more difﬁcult than that of Swapana. Ambika as a feeble and a sick woman, is still
more challenging, and as such more encouraging.

I had done few plays in my college life but what I experienced from these two
plays are something very different, delightfully, illuminatinating. Whatever I lsarnt in
the institute was entirer new to me, and it has certainly beneﬁtted me. It was at the

institute that I realised that how much the success of the play depends on proper

