Pt. Rajendra Prasanna

Mnain

Known for the unique blend offluency and melody in his ﬂute and shehnai recitals,

Pt. Rajendra Prasanna belongs to the Benaras Gharana. He received his training from i: , ,
his grandfather Pandit Gauri Shankar and father Pandit Raghunath Prasanna.
हुं
In 1 968, at the age oftwelve, he was invited to the Calcutta Music Conference; in 1 984
he was special invitee to the 9th Asian Music Festival in Hong Kong; and in 1 988 he was

invited to the Bulgarian Festival. In 1 986 Prasannaji became the ﬁrst ﬂautist and
shehnai player to visit Pakistan for a music concert after the partition.
में
He has performed internationally in France, Belgium, Poland ,Germany, UK, Switzerland, Japan, Mauritius,

Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, etc. ; was closely associated with the Golden,
Jubilee celebration ofIndian independence in 1997; has participated in the goldenjubilee ofthe Sangeet Natak
Akademi in 200 1 ; and has been a “Top” grade artist with the All India Radio.
In 2002 he was a part ofa Grammy—winning music video put together by Pt. Ravi Shankar at the Royal Albert
Hall, London, in memory of the George Harrison; and in 2006 the “Festival India” in Japan was inaugurated
with his Shehnai recital.
Prasannaj i is the recipient of several awards including the Surrnani (1 978), the Sangeet Pujari (1 986), the
Nadratna (1994) and the Sangeet Surabhi (1998). He received the Rose Award for his music in Sanjha chilha ,
(1994); was the ﬁrst shehnai and ﬂute player honored with the Utter Pr'adesh Sangeet Natak Akademi Award
( l 995); and was also the recipient ofthe Lifetime Achievement Award given by Sahara India in 2003.
Pt. Raj endra Prasanna is presently working with the National School ofDrama.

Vivek Mishra

Maplafinn

Vivek Mishra is a graduate from Delhi University and from the National School of Drama
with a specialization in acting (1 991 ). He has worked in the NSD Repertory Company as an
artist for 3 yea rs. He is the Fou nder of a theatre group’Chaya Ch hat Manchi which performs
on terraces of private residences in and around the Uttarn Nagar locality. He has directed 8

full length plays and has translated and adapted several classics like MotherCourage,
Caucasian Chalk Circle, The RiseAnd Fall OfThe City OfMahagony, Lux in Teneberis, Bagad Billa,
Three Sisters, A Doll’s House, He Who Gets Slapped, End Games, In theJungle ofCities, Who’s
"
Afraid of Virginia Wolfe, etc. He was also a part of Ti m S u pp le’s production of A Midsumme
r Night’s Dream,
which traveled to many places across the world.

ﬁtting ilnpttf

Adil H ussain *

'रमन-रे-रे-रेसम-र:

A graduate of National School of Drama, specializing in acting in 1993. He received
the

Charles WallaceTrust Scholarship to study acting in England at the Drama Studio, London.
In 1997, he was invited to act as the lead actor in the production 'Moeder India'
by the
५
Amsterdam based International Danstheater Company that toured for eightee
n months. ८
In 1 999, Ad i I acted as Othello in the acclaimed production of Othello: A play
in Black and

White which was awarded the Edinburgh Fringe First. He is still touring with this

,.

production and has performed over the last 10 years in Zimbabwe,
France,
[ \.
England, Egypt, Germany, Holland, Belgium and India. From 1997 till
2001, he also served as a visiting

faculty member at the Drama School in Amsterdam and the Royal Conservatory
of Performing Arts in The
Hague. From 2001 till now he has been regularly teaching acting as
a visiting faculty member at the
National School of Drama, New Delhi and from 2007 onwards at
the Film and Television Institute of India in

Pu ne. He acted in Ishqiya and played by lead role as Jasoos Vijay for Doordar
shan, as Othello in, A&B
motion pictures film production of 'In Othello', lead roles in films
‘such as ItiSrikanto and in the play
Orientations (Dir Michael Walling) by Border Crossings Theater Compan
y in London.

