. «Souti Chakraborty
Born in Kolkata, Souti Chakraborty started theatre in 1 984. An alumnus of
”ﬁt—1
National School of‘Drama (2001 ) with the specialization in Design & Direction, he
has
worked with GripsTheatre for seven years in Kolkata; in the NSD Repertory as
a

'

i

director, designer and aetor for seven years; and with almost all the eminent

३

के '

directors in India. He has also acted in television serial Maharaja Ranjit Singh. As a
teacher, he has participated in many theatre workshops and has represented India in
'The young theatre Workers’Workshop in Berlin.

Prasanna .D

_

A graduate ofthe National School of Drama in Design & Stagecraft (2008),

Prasanna .D has also done his Honours in English Literature and a one year diploma
course from N i nasarn, one ofthe most reputed theatre institutes of Karnataka.

3३

_ He has been the creative d i rector at the Haryana Police Academy, Madhu ba n, where
he taught theatre and directed plays with police ofﬁcers as pa rt of a project on
”Sensitizing Police for an Empowered Society”. He has worked with many em i nent

i
'

है

i
3

directors from India and abroad;has conducted theatre workshops in different
regions ofthe country; has, participated in theatre festivals including the Raﬁ Peer
Theatre Festival, Lahore; and has directed plays like Bimbayana, A Midsummer Night’s
Dream, Refund, Charandas Char, SahebAa RaheHai, etc. Prasanna D is currently working as a freelance

designerand director.

'

Santosh Kumar (Sandy)
Born in Dhanbad, J harkhand Santosh Kumar has been working as a freelance music

न-रउरे-रे-रे-स-मरेनर

composer, arranger and multimedia sound designing. artist in Delhi तो Mu rnba i. He

has assisted and worked with eminent theatre music directors like Late. B.V. Karanth,
RanjitKapoor, Sanjay Upadhyay, Chitranjan Tripatyetc; and with eminent theatre

directors like RanjitKapoor, Robin Das, RamgopalBajaj, TripumriSharma, Satyabrat
Raut andDinesh Khanna etc. Santosh has also composed sound & music for national
& state award winning films like Amu and Dhauli Express. Some of his major

नै
it"
'’

,

productions are: Roshoman, Jal Damru Baje, Hum Rahe Na Hum, Hemlet, Who is afraid
ofVirginia Wolﬁ Traitor, Rangdhuli, and Wrong Turn, etc.

Kuldeep Kunal
Kuldeep Kunal has done his Masters in Hindi Literature and in theatre and television.
He has been working as a scriptwriter for theatre and media for the last 6 years. I n
addition toteaching script writing in various parts ofthe country, he has also been

directing documentaries and short films; and has been working with Haryana Gyan

.

Vigyan Samiti,'an organisation dedicated to creating awareness through theatre, for

the last ten years. ast ten years. He has written several scripts such as Meera-A Divine l
j.
Force, _ Gauhatya‘, Che as reference and The Landweaver; a nd has done adaptations like 3“.
Animal Farm and A Midsummer Night's Dream. He is currently working on a project
based on the life of sex workers. A poet at heart, Mr. Kunal also enjoys writing lyrics and considers

theatre to bee. part Ofhis social commitment.

रे

