Childless king of Corinth, Polybus saved him, not knowing
of his royal background and here Oedipus (probably
meaning ’Swell-foot') reached his manhood.
On a certain occasion, the young Oedipus visited the
temple of Delphi, where he was told that he would kill
his father and marry his own mother. Horrified, the
adopted prince left his foster father Polybus, thus hoping
to avoid his fate, and later met Laius, his own father
and not recognizing him, killed him in quarrel. As fate
would have it, he came to Thebes, found the city
plagued by the Sphinx, a winged monster with the
head of a woman. This Sphinx would ask all passers
by a riddle, "What is it that in the morning crawls on
four, at noon on two and in the evening on three", and
anyone who would fail to answer, she would kill him.
When Oedipus faced the Sphinx, he answered the riddle:
"Man", Whereupon the Sphinx killed herself in disgust.
For this Oedipus was rewarded by the regent to the
throne of Thebes, Creon, according to his promise, the
Kingdom of Thebes and the widowed Queen, his sister.
This way Oedipus fulfilled the Oracles of the Gods. And
this is what has already happened when the play opens.

Summery of the play : Plague, failure of crops, disease
among the flocks, and barrenness of women afflict the
city of Thebes. A group of suppliants, with a Priest as
their Spokesman, appeals to Oedipus, their king, for help.
The people consider him not as a god but the first among
men, the saviour of the city and its people. Oedipus tells
them how he himself is grieved and speaks of Creon
whom he has sent to Delphi to consult the Oracle.
Creon returns and offers to deliver the news in private
but Oedipus bids him speak out. Creon reveals that
Apollo, the God of Light, has commanded them to drive

out the pollution, the miasma, that has been growing in
their land—the pollution of the unpunished murderer of
Laius, who was killed by 'robbers’ while travelling to

Delphi, to the temple of Apollo.
Pointing out that the murderer has to be discovered for
his own interest, since he himself might become the

