next victim, Oedipus summons the City Council of Elders
where he asks them for information since he is "a stranger

to the report and to the deed". The murderer, if he
confesses, will be given a simple penality of exile only;
but if he does not, he will be cursed and thrust from the
land, a total out-cast from all social or religious activities.
Oedipus himself, he declared, as Laius' successor and
husband to Laius’ Queen, will take on the avenging role
of next—of-kin, as if Laius were his own father.
The Chorus advises Oedipus to seek the help of the blind
prophet Tiresias. The king replies that he is already sent
for. Tiresias comes and exclaims ”How terrible is
knowledge when it brings no good to the knower." and
asks to be taken back home.
Oedipus at first reproaches courteously, later falls into a
blind fury, thinking it to be treachery. Finally Oedipus
accuses Tiresias of having planned Laius’ murder, and
plotting with Creon in order to usurp the throne. The
prophet declares "You yourself are the murderer whom
you seek". There follows a terrible argument whereupon
Tiresias foretells a terrible doom for Oedipus: ”This day
will bring you to birth and will destroy you. ”Then
follows a general alarm. Creon comes to acquit himself
of the charge of treason. A heated argument takes place.
Oedipus’ wife, Queen Jocasta, separates her husband
and brother at the height of their quarrel. After Creon
leaves, Jocasta, learning of Tiresias' prophecy, consoles
him, saying that Laius died at the hands of robbers for
his own three day old son had died on the mountains,
his ankles pinned together.
Not re—assured, Oedipus presses Jocasta for details.
He tells his own story of how he killed an angry old man
in a chariot who had almost ridden him down, at a place
where the three roads meet. Jocasta re-iterates her
belief that her son (of Laius) died, long ago, in infancy.
They then send for the servant who had returned to
report of Laius' death.

After a choral ode, Jocasta emerges to pray to Apollo
but is interrupted by a Messenger from Corinth who
reports that King Polybus has died of old age and Oedipus
is to be his successor. Troubled about the foretelling of

