his marrying his mother, Oedipus refuses, whereupon
the Messenger reports that he (Oedipus) was only a
foster child of Polibus and he himself took the infant
Oedipus from one of Laius’ shepherds on the mountains.
and gave him to the king Polybus. Jocasta, realizing the
truth, begs Oedipus to inquire no more, but he persists
thinking that she may be ashamed to have married a
man of low birth.
At this point the Shepherd appears, who is also the
servant who reported Laius' death. Extremely reluctant,
the Shepherd is forced to reveal how he received Laius’
child from Jocasta, pitied it, handed over to a Corinthian.
Finally, aware of the whole truth, Oedipus rushes into
the palace.
The Chrous lament the King's fate, after which a second
Messenger comes out to describe the sequel: Oedipus
broke into the royal bed-room to find that Jocasta had
hanged herself. Taking down her body, he struck out his
eyes with her golden brooches so that they might no
longer see the misery of his life.
Oedipus now gropes his way out, supported by attendants.
At the end, after Creon assumes the charge of the City,
he leaves the city as the Chorus sing: ”Natives of Thebes,
behold this Oedipus, who knew the famous riddle and
was most powerful of men, whose lot no one looked
upon without envy, to what a sea of terrible calamity he
has come. ”Do not consider blest anyone who is a

mortal until he has passed the term of his life without
suffering."
Commentry : Utter helplessness is not culpable, but
Oedipus is culpable. In trying to cure the plague without
realizing that he himself is the plague, Oedipus attempts
to handle the problem by becoming personally involved.
The disengagement caused by intellectual pride is
Oedipus' flaw. This ’sin' is cured by the gods in the only
way possible: the king is shown that he himself is both
the problem and the answer, that knowledge is not
wisdom, that the solution must not merely be known
but lived, and that evil is not an exterior problem but an
inner mystery and it begins at home.
So the confrontation of Oedipus, the clever man who

