The chorus consisted of twelve or fifteen men who
walked on after the opening scene of the play and stayed
on till the end. Their share in the performance took several
forms: between the dialogue scenes they chanted choral
songs to the accompniment of a single flute; sometimes
the chorus and one or more actors sang in turn stanzas
of lamentation or joy: their leader could intervene briefly
in the dialogue; and In some plays they took part in the
action itself. Of their deploy of movement we know
little; but they certainly danced as they sang, and reacted
with motions and gestures to the dialogue. The chorus
had two decisive effects on the nature of Greek tragedy.
Their songs gave the action a wider meaning by linking it
with legend and traditional belief. Their presence gave
a unity to the play— not necessarily of time and place, but
of action: a Greek tragedy was no chronicle play but an
organic and continuous whole.
Late representations of the tragic actor that have come
down to} us portray a grotesque masked figure with
exaggerated forehead, gaping mouth and boot soles
inches thick. The 5th century. however, knew nothing of
these distortions: masks and costumes were not far
removed from real life, neither probably were gesture and
movement, although the balance of line against line, and
speech against speech in the dialogue have a ritual formality which may have been reflected in the acting. No
doubt, the actor's voice was the decesive factor in the
competition for the prize for acting established in the
middle of the century. Scarcity of men with good voices
(there were no women actors) may have been the reason
for using not more than three actors in each play, who
with change of masks and costumes, shared the speaking parts. Silent ’extras' were as numerous as finance
allowed.
On the origin of drama we have only scanty and conflicting evidence, and the controversies that have resulted
from it are not likely to be resolved. What seems certain
is that tragedy arose out of religious ritual, and that it's

oldest element is the part nearest to ritual—choral song.
The lyric chorus narrated leged: at some time in the 6th
century B.C. some poet—he have been the Athenian,

Thespis, (about 534)—-took the crucial Step of introducing

