The tragic costumes were unchanged in principal
characteristics through-out the remaining history of Greek
Tragedy—~The use of mask, is indissolubly connected
with the style and character of Greek Tragedy. The mask
aided the resonance of the actor’s voice which was an
important accoustical point in the vast theatres of the
ancients. But these masks enabled the actor to play many
roles, or for a man to play the part of a women and thus
interchange of roles was possible. These masks were
made of cork and linen and were covered from front and
behind; for the pupils a hollow place was left. The most
characterstic future of the tragic masks was the ’Onkos’.
There were about 28 masks created by Pollux.
Boots: Tragic boots were also -a very interesting and
important factor. They were called ’Cothornus’ which
gave the actor an appearance of superhuman grandeur.
These boots had wooden sole of enormous thickness
attached to the body of the boot. This wooden sole was
painted in different colours and increased the display and
height of the actors. Another tragic boot was called
'Krepis', invented by Sophocles and used by the chorus
also.
Garments: The garments were of the same shape as the
ordinary Greek dress but more stylised, colourful and
magnificiently textured. The tunic were brilliantly
variegated in colour, adorned with stripes. And sometimes with the figures of animals, flowers or geometric
ornamentation. A special purple tunic was worn by
queens.
Tunics were different in length for men and women as
well as for the rich and poor. For women tunics were
more lengthy than men's and trailing lower than the feet
were named as 'Syrots'. While the ordinary tunic was
upto the feet. For the poor and servants the tunic was
shorter and upto the knee length.
These tunics were fastened with a broad girdle high up
under the breast, flowing down gracefully in long folds,
giving an appearance of height and dignity. These tunics
were supplied by long and broad sleeves reaching the
waist. There were some over garments also used, named
as 'l-larniation' and ’Chlamys'.

