This Production : It should be pointed out that the
School is evolving a new policy with regard to its
play-production :
(i) Choice of plays is not at random, but coordinated with
the students studies in class. For example, this term's
work has revolved around Greek studies (in Theatre
Architecture, Costume Design, Literature, Make up
courses, etc.) and has culminated in the production of
’Oedipus Rex’.
(ii) Casting and division of labour for production work are
geared to the educational needs of all the students—not
to a star—system catering to a few students. This is to
ensure an equal Opportunity for all students to develop
their talent.
(iii) Our main aim is not to serve the Delhi audience in the
same way that a professional group does. The fact that an
audience is invited to share our work, is secondary to the
needs of the students' education, which should not be
sacrificed under the idea that the School must perpetually
exhibit its “best".
(iv) The above policy applies despite the fact that the
students come from various places in and outside India,
and do not all have experience of Hindi or Urdu as their
mother—tongue. A fluent standardized language medium
is still an ideal.
This production has involved all lst El- Ilnd year students
in both acting and production-work. There are three
different ’casts', with a view to making all the students'
involvement full and varied: thus most students have
three parts in the play, and all have at least two. A good
deal of the 'blocking’ and choreography has been evolved
by the students themselves in improvisations. ln production—work, the students have worked in groups under
Staff guidance—having chosen an area of work in which
they have little experience: there is no ”type-casting"
even here, but the attempt to extend the range of the
students’ skills—l— interests in as practical and democratic
a way as possible.
The main aim of the production is to give the students an

approximate experience of Classic Greek theatre form:
this has influenced fundamental designs and style,

