The School: The personality of the head of the institution
might affect the temperament and working of the
institution, yet the basic principles that inspired its foundation remain unaltered. A change of the Director, of the
National School of Drama, does not in any way change the
school ’ s responsibility towards the theatre movement in the
country, which should be strong, alert and progressive.
A thorough orientation and involvement of the school's
students in the open field is an important factor that can
contribute towards this ideal. The emphasis, is on the
cultivation of a total theatre personality, lest specialization
should limit the SCOpe of the theatre worker. The raw
state of Indian theatre, today needs enterprisers who are
well versed in all the aspects of theatre. It has, therefore,
been decided to introduce an integerated course, covering
all the branches of the theatre. For two years, the
students will have a rigorous, integerated syllabus, the
emphasis being on study. During this period they will be
acquainted with the major schools of theatre and variety
of styles, taught and produced by teachers as well as
visiting directors. All reginal forms are to be explored. At
the same time, the students must learn to evaluate their
work 'in relation to the International scene. Hence, the
orientation imparted here cannot be narrow and rigid.
In the third year the students will work for a distinction
in the subject of their choice. This year shall also
be devoted to their independent creative works,
based on trial and experiment. The existing third year
students are working on a similar project.

The system of examination will test the students on the
basis of practical oral and written work. To facilitate the
students to work easily, the examination will be scattered
over different periods of time. Monthly assessment of
work done shall also be considered in the final evaluation.

The School's Rang Mandal (Repertory Co.) should be a
strong body, capable of performing at several places
simultenously. Slowly it is working towards it. With the
availability of mobile equipment, it should be poossible to
take the Repertory’s productions all over the country.
We feel that the activities of the National School of Drama,

should not be restricted to Delhi alone. As a begining it is

