ABQQT THE PLAY
When one is denied the respect due to a man only for the reason that he
is borne by 'low-caste' parents, the offence can not simply be termed as a
social violence. It assumes the proportion of a crime against human kind

impeding that very evolution which is earmarked to reach a state where man
is proud of being called a man. This may provoke individual aberrations and
most of the time a tragedy becomes imminent. Even killing does not remain

a chance occurrence. Yet by the turn in situation murderer becomes a winner
whereas the victim is unforgiven. The culprit may receive the severe
punishment at the hands of the law but, in fact, it is the society which is put
in the dock.

The 'Court-martial', written by Swadesh Deepak, is the story of a recruit
Ram Chandra who is tried for murdering one of his officers and injuring
another. The court-martial is presided by a war-veteran Col Surat Singh
who has been a witness to many 'life-and-death' situations. But this trial puts
him in a queer position so far unknown to him and during the course of
interrogation he realises that the issues at stake are much larger than what
meets the eyes. He finds that law is against the accused but he is with him.
He does not falter as the guardian of law nor as a senior colleague who is
pained by the humiliation of a comrade-in-arms. Realising that the Indian
army is the only government agency in which reservation on caste basis is
not permissible, the Court-martial' presents a combination of legal and poetic
j ust ice.
0F
Costume
Costume Assistance
Make - Up
F.O. H
Stills
Poster and Brochure

Publicity lncharge
Lights
Property

TAG E
Pankaj Gupta, Poonam Girdhani
Ganga Ram (Press), Manu, Rajesh Kumar
Deepak Sethi, Nalin Srivastava
Sanjay, Dolly Daftary, Mandakini Malla,
Aparna Singh, Vasuda
Davinder Singh, Pallee
Rakesh Baghel, Mrigank Dubey
Wasirn Khan
Tnbhuvan

Jitender Gupta, Naveen, Seema, Pramod,
Haidar

Production Controller
Assistance

Poonam
Pramod, Ashish Sharma, Rajesh Kumar

Lights

Tnbhuvan
Shahid Anwar

Directorial Assistance
Music

P I a ywr i g ht
D i rec ti or

Sanqeeta Gaur
.
" \ l w‘

n

pit-H.93k

