AboutSIM” Bang TO" mm
The Theatre-In-Education Company (Sanskaar Rang Toli) of the National School of
Drama was established on October 16‘“, 1989, and is one of the most important
educational resource centers in the country.

Performance for Children: The TIE Company consists of a group of actor-teachers
performing with and for children. The major focus of the Company is to perform creative,
curriculum based and participatory plays in schools, designed and prepared specially for
children ofdifferent age groups. The major thrust ofthe plays is to create an atmosphere that

encourages children to raise questions, make decisions and choices with an awareness of
themselves within the context of a larger society. The TIE Company has staged more than
800 performances of 26 plays in Delhi and other parts of the country. More than 5.5 Lakh
children, apart form college students, teachers, parents and theatre lovers, have witnessed
these plays.
Summer Theatre Workshop: A one month long intensive workshop for children (8-16
years) is held in May- June every year. Personality development and integration of the

children from various social strata with the social reality of our times are important
aspects ofthis workshop.
Sunday Club, Part-l: An extension programme of the summer theatre workshop where

children work to create original plays through a process ofirnprovisation.
Part-II: A step further towards facilitating children's understanding oftheatre as an art.

Workshop for Teachers: This is offered on demand with the objective of facilitating the
use of theatrical skills and techniques in the classroom so that learning can become more
effective and enjoyable. Workshops for social organizations are also conducted.

Jashne- Bachpan A National Theatre Festival for children, a regular bi—annual feature of
the TIE Company that invites plays by and for children from different parts ofthe country.
Bal Sangam: A festival of Indian performing folk and traditional arts presented by the

children practicing these arts from different regions ofthe country.
Tours: The TIE Company travels with its programmes to various States of the country. It

has participated in international theatre festivals in Warsaw (Poland), Beijing (China),
Manila (Philippines) and Shinzouka (Japan).
workshop with teachers in Muscat (Oman).

The Company has also conducted a

