- "in
Kathak /OdISSI Eve
9

chreographed by Chetna Jalan and ’Jugal
Bandi', a combination of Kathak and Odissi
choreographed by Sharmila Biswas and
Chetna Jalan. Recently Ileana Citaristi
(Bhubaneshwar) choreographed the newest
piece based on the blend of Chhau and Kathak
named Icarus which is being presented in this
festival.

The Kathak repertory will be presenting

various choreographies.

Kathak Dance Company
Our Kathak company initially nurtured under
the doyen of Lucknow Gharana Pt. Birju
Maharaj is at present the result of rigorous
training, rehearsals and innovative
choreography by Pt. Vijai Shankar. Apart
from senior artists it includes several devoted

young aspirants who undertake regular dance
classes at Padatik Dance Centre. The
ensemble has performed in major Indian
Dance Festivals and toured Europe
extensively. ln [989 Chetna Jalan alongwith
her Kathak troupe was invited to perform a
full length show at the prestigious Kuopio
Dance Festival in Finland, at Birmingham (UK)
and West Berlin. Recently, in November I 992

Chetna and the Kathak troupe performed at
the International Dance Festival in Seoul at
the invitations of Korean Government and

participated there in International dance
symposium held during the festival. On their
return they performed at Hongkong and

Bangkok. The dancers of the company
includes Luna Pan, Nilanjana Sengupta,
lndrani Sahachowdhury, Parornita lVlaitra,
Sushmita Sur, Nandini Sinha, Anupam

Cf

ianda.

Beside Panditji, the Kathak company has
worked with guest choreographerS~Prof.
Dietmar Seyffert from Germany, who has

created unique dance piece, ” Flight of Birds"
Smt. Kumudini Lakhia (Ahmdabad)

3
s
७
a,
आ'-::-:,

Pt.Viiai Shankar The resident guru of Padatik
‘ ५
.. . ५
.
Dance Centre, Pt. VIJal Shankar is regarded as
one of the foremost Kathak GurUS—dISCIple
of Pt. Birju Maharaj, the doyen of Lucknow
gharana——earlier danced in the lead roles in
the Guru’s ballets—besides India, regularly

— perforns and conducts workshops abroad.

choreographed a new number for t h e troupe

mainly in Japan and U SA—a master of
rhythm, his dance and choreographic work is

titled “AGNI " . Other innovative

distinguished for its softness, refinement.

choreographies include Trivrdh Nayika based
on 3 Nayikas of Vidyapati which has been

and stylisation, forging a new path within the
confines of traditional sensibilities.

