Odissi wing will present different solo,
duet, and group numbers including some
special choreographies.

Dancers

Odissi Dance Company

Sharmila Biswas combines the soft
sensuous lyricism of abhinay with the

vigorous foot and body movement of Odissi
in her dance. Trained under the rigorous

discipline of Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra, she
has drawn heavily from the traditional form to

The Odissi Company
Guided by Padatik’s visiting Guru
Padmabhushan Guru Kelucharan
Mahapatra—assisted by Sm. Sharmila
Biswas who also leads the Odissi repertory

and conducts regular workshops. Over the
past years Guruji has taken Padatik a step
closer to its present status of a ’Dance

Centre’ by visualising and choreographing
two Odissi ballets based on Mahakavi
Jaydev's "Geet Govindam" and Tagore's
"Bhanusingher Padabali".

innovate and weave contemporaneous

sensibilities in her presentations, without
departing from the basic style of the dance
form. Sharmila was invited for choregraphic
workshop by the American Dance Festival,
New York. She has toured Germany and
USSR. during the Festivals of India and

gives regular performances in India and
abroad. She is presently the Director of the
Odissi Dance Company of Padatik Dance
Centre, Calcutta.

Debomitra Sengupta started learing Odissi
in 1987 under the able guidance of Sutapa
Dutta Gupta ; was appointed as the teacher of

"Gurukul" within one year. At present she is
a student of Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra

Maya Bhattacharya received traininig in
Odissi in 1984 under the able guidance of
Poushali Mukherjee and thereafter under
Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra. She was invited
at the Asian Dance Festival at Singapore and
in Swami Haridas Sarnmelan in Bombay.

The Guru

Sharmi Gupta started her dance at the age
Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra born in a

of 4 under the able guidance of Ruby Banerjee
in Kathak and K. K. Thumpy in Bharatnatyam;

Patachitra painters’ family in ] 926—started

passed “Nritya Tirtha" diploma with a first

learning ’Gotipua N ritya’ and Pakhawaj from

class first position. Joined Odissi in 1989
under the able guidance of Sutapa Dutta
Gupta. (appointed teacher in Gurukul).

lengends of yesteryears—has been
instrumental in reviving this dance form from
a Devadasi or Mahari Dance to the level of a
popular classical dance. The nation honoured
him by conferring upon him the Sangeet
Natak Akademi Award and later the
Padmabhushan. He has also received the

Kalidas Award.

Shampa Ganguli a senior student of Guru
Kelucharan Mahaptra, Shampa started Odissi
training under Guru Murlidhar Majhi and

thereafter under Smt. Sanjukta Panigrahi fora
short period. At present having lessons from
Poushali Mukherjee. A graded T.V. artiste,

