Actors

Kulbhushan Kharbanda a founder member
of Padati k bears testimony to his love for theatre
from his early age. In 1967, he had founded
the Delhi based theatre group 'Abhiyan’ along
with people like Rajendranath and others. Having
moved over‘ to Bombay in 1977, Kharbanda
found himself flooded with offers for all kinds
of roles, and has gradually become a successful
actor. He had been very popular after acting
in the film Shaan. Currently, though Kulbhushan

Kunal Padhi associated with Padatik since
1986 has been involved in most productions.
Designed, Directed and acted in the workshop
production of "The Elephant Man" in 1989.
Mahmud Alam joined Padatik in 1986 and
has been involved practically in productions
since then has worked with directors like
Satyadeo Dubey, Fritz Bennewitz, Shyarnanand
Jalan and Rodney Marriott.

has a packed schedule with several films in
Bombay, he still manages to take off some
time to visit Calcutta to act for Padatik’s play.

Sanchayita Bhattacharya started acting on
the English stage... joined padatik in 1987...
has worked with directors like Satyadeo Dubey,

ChetnaJalan received her training in theatre
at The American Conservatory Theatre, San

Anmol Vellani, Fritz Bennewitz, Shyarnanand

Francisco, underwent a course in Mass Media
at The Standford University in 1969-70...acted
in play directed by eminent Theatre directors
like Satyadev Dubey, Fritz Bennewitz, William
Ball, Welforrn Mehrin, Rajinder Nath, Ranjit
Kapoor and Shyarnanand Jalan. Also a Kathak
dancer and choreographer of repute, she has
been a jury member of International Ballet
Festivals (Moscow) 1985 & ’89 and Co-President
of the Dance Committee of lTl (Unesco). Has
performed all over the world.

Shakil Khan has given stage performances in
more than 25 plays and also acted in tele—films
and TV. Serials. worked with directors like
Ranjit Kapoor, Shyarnanand Jalan, Fritz
Bennewitz and Rodney Marriott.
Pradip Roy has been acting with Padatik since
1976... has appeared on screen under the
directions of Mrinal Sen, Kalpana Lazarni,
Shyarnanand Jalan and others.
B.M. Hada has acted in more than 20 plays...
has also appeared in telefilrns and TV. Serials.

Jalan and Rodney Marriott.

I

Shampa Ghosh has been associated with
Padatik since 1988 also acted for IPTA and
Anamika. . . has worked with directors like Anmol
Vellani, Fritz Bennewitz, and Shyarnanand Jalan.

Ashok Singh acted in more than 30 theatre
productions and several T.V. serials and
telefilrns... worked with directors like Satyajit
Ray, Kalpana Lazarni, Tripti Mitra, Ranjit Kapoor

M.K.- Raina and others. Acted in serials like
'Gandevata' and 'Lohit Kinare’.
Baishakhi Marjit started acting in stage and
television in 1986. Since then has performed
in many plays. Worked with the groups like
’Chenamukh’ ‘Epic Actors’s workshop' and
'Prama’. The TV. serials in which she has
acted are ‘Kolkata Kolkata’, ’Debotar Bandhi'
and ’Rakshasgan', ’Charitraheen' etc.
For
Shyarnanand Jalan
Vinay Sharma
Dinesh Poddar
Anil K. Elias
P/ease see on the next page.

