Designers

Kathmandu Ka’ and other stories, ’ Raj Se Swaraj ’
etc. Theatre directions include TUGHLAO in
Bengali with Shambhu Mitra in title role. Directed
'Seemana Chhadiye' (TV Serial) and Alik Babu
(Tele Film).

MFA in sculpture at the University of Wisconsin
and also'studied at the Rhode School of Design
in Rome. His works have been shown“
internationally.
Dinesh Poddar has acted as well as worked
as set designer, stage manager in almost all
Padatik Productions. Acted in and translated
Tapan Sinha's film "EK DOCTOR Kl MAUT".
At present associated with Padatik as Technical
Director.

Ka lntezar Karte Huye ........ ..

Subroto Maiumdar an MA. in Drama from
Rabindra Bharati University, National Scholar
in stage lighting. Worked as stage lighting
designer for several Groups.
Chhotka Das has been designing and operating
lights for Padatik for the last 10 years.

Stage Manager

Vinay Sharma has been acting for Padatik
since 1981.... his plays include Janta Ka Shatru,
Panchi Aise Ate Hain, Aur Raja Mar Gaya,
Salim Shervvani Ki Shadi and Baarishwala. Has
been directing plays for children and for Padatik
— Ek Anarchist Ki lttefaqia Maut and Godot

Lighting

of 'Chanakya Vishnugupta and 'Udhwatha
Dharamshala' fully conversant with the political
and social condition of the country. He is also

the Bridge " for Yale University apart from "Karori
Marco" for National School, of Drama, New
Delhi. He was holding the post of the Associate
artistic Director at New York's award-winning
circle Repertory Company till the end of his life.

Ming Cho Lee for many years. Has designed
over 100 productions in America's major
Professional Regional, New York and Opera

from Washington DC, USA who received his

literature and also Indian mythology... The Writer

productions to his credit. His major stage works
include "The Rivals " , "Twelfth night” and "A
street car named Desire" and "a View from

Baarishwala. A graduate of the Yale School of
Drama had been an Associate Designer to

John D. Antone a noted sculptor—Designer '

Govind Deshpande professor of Jawaharlal
Nehru University. . . . a well known authority on
Marxism, but has serious interest in theatre,

Rodney Marriott has nearly hundred

accompanied Mr. Rodney Marriott for

theatres. Won many awards for his experimental
designs of lbsen's play at The America Ibsen
Theatre.

T.V. Serials acting in Satyajit Ray's 'Kissa

a very good actor and has been associated
with the National School of Drama, New Delhi
for years.

Christopher Barrecca the designer

Anil K. Elias worked as stage manager for

Costume

Directors

Shyamanand Jalan a veteran of Calcutta
theatre. Received award for direction and acting
from Sangeet Natak Akaderni, New Delhi in
'73. Acted in nearly 60 plays and directed
about 45. Also acted in filmS—Roland Joffe's
’City of Joy', Shyarn Benegal's ’Arohan', Mrinal
Sen's 'Tasvir Apni Apni’ , Utpalendu
Chakraborty's 'Chokh' and 'Debshishu’ etc.,

Raiu Khatnani acted in Padatik....also on T.V.

Shehzadi Tu randot, directed by Vincenzo Cozzi
from Italy. Has also worked with directors like
Govind Deshpande and Shyamanand Jalan.
Arghya Basu Performed in the lead role in
'Dybbuk' and also in a prominent role in 'Shehzadi
Turandot' directed by Vincenzo Cozzi from Italy.

Makbul Khan and Pavitra Sarkar have
served in Padatik as general assistant for

costumes and props for the last 10 years.

