F III R E W III R D
To-day “ The Young Dramatist " feels prond in presenting its
4th Drama—Nite. The reasons for pride is an alround sympathetic response from the people of Dramatic world, drama patrons and thereby the
creation of spirit of confidence in " The Young Dramatist " for presenting
this full length Hindi play—AJNABI. The originator of this play is a progresswe and upcoming young writer Shri Sagar :arliadi. By staging AJNABI
as a full length play ‘ The Young Dramatist ' has taken one step forward;
because so far every time it has staged 5 one act plays of different young
Writers in Hindi, Mal'athi and Gujarathi languages.
Professional, Educational and Amature regions are ths known
divisions of the theatre world. The Young Dramatist humbly announces
that it belongs to the last two categories. It is a group of truth seek- ३
ing young people interested in different techniques of Drama Production,
working with a single mindedness to produce a perfect play and instil team
spirit in themselves.

Due to long period slavery of our country the old traditional LINK
of our lndian theatre disappeared. Our great old authors like BHARAT.
DHANANJAYA, BHASA and KALIDAS also got eclipsed for some time
The post independence conditions and opportunities have again provided
us the chance to link thd best of our Indian culture and Phylosophy with
the present scientifically advanced human society, ‘ The Young” Dramatist

humbly feels as one of the distinguished fellow travellers in

the march of

service to the society. Drama not only entertains but provides a medium to
teach and learn.
OUR HOPES 8r DESIRES
The Young Dramatist hopes to get registered under the Societies
registration act XXI of l860 in very near future.
We desire to publish a monthiy magazine to provide a platfrom
and to " Span ” the East and West.
We wish to have its own premises in a model suburb of greater
Bombay where the nature’s hide and seek game can still be witnessed in
its originality.
The Young Dramatist is glad to inform the Dramatic 'world that
The Chief lessee of Powai Estate has promised to grant a beautiful piece
of enough land in a cairn and pictureque enviroments of Powai (a few
miles away from the hustle of Bombay City) where the Young Dramatist
may have a corner of its own to play sing and prosper.
I take this opportunity to thank all the patrons, artists, friends &
well wishers who have contriuuted in any way to make the NITE a success.

8 l]P A L SH AR MA
(J t . Organise r)

