With over 300 students in
the school from nursery to
class seven. the chefs educated
students onthe concept of “hygiene" while also facing questionsabout their profession,
“These children come from
a very humble background
With this imitative. they will
dHUBANESWAR,
PTI: obviously enjoy the meal but
li‘e’nowned sand artist Su- theywill also getto know about
darsan Patmaik has been dethe profession of dieis,
dared as the brand ambassar
“l guess many of them are
dor for the 51h lntemational seeing someone wearing the
Sand Art Festival to be heldat chefcourt and hat for the ﬁrst
Konarkby the tourism depart- time in their life This experi
ment of ' ha.
ence will stay with them for
International Sand Art F‘eslong," PChandrasekamn. Sentival is a popular annual event ior Programme Director.Hope
organised by Odisha Tourism Foundation, said.
from December 1 to 5 at
Startedwith the thought of
Konar in
'.
educating students about hySeveralsand artists from In- giene. the session was pep»
diaand abroad will participate pered with questions from cuin the festival
rious studentswanting to learn
As the festival would coin- about the profession and parcide with the ‘Make in 0disha' ticularly the “todo list” to be
Conclave. a large number of come a successful chef in fuvisitors areexpected to turn up ture.
to witness the international
e repared a lecture on
event. said Pattnailt. expressing hygiene forthese students We
happinss for once again ba'ng believe that ‘Swacchh Bharat’
madebran ambassarorofthe starts from home and to be
event.
दृ
v more precise from one‘s
“It will bea‘unique opportu- krtchen. I guess we were able
nity {Or the visitors to watch to spreadthe message on this
and enjoy the making of sand coun L
art." hesaid.
“However. what was inter—
0disha tourism has been or- esting was their interest in
ganising this festival for last wold Theirqueries related
four years.
to our profession were very
So far, Sudarsanhas partici- १ thoughtful,“he added.
paIEd in more than 50 inter
nationalsand art f ‘
and ५
competitionaround the world
and won many prizes for the
country.

I

३
‘
:

I E

itemational
d ArtFestival

A

Brand W's हो

ambassador font

