festival 1972

sangee‘t na1ak a<ademi

_comes down over the first act with Matla, Jata and Badami having
their meagre meal on the floor, while Daksha, aghor’s sisterly
mistress, laments with a comic vehemence beside the 'doori' which
has been placed on a narrow raised platform supposed to be the
road running alongside Matla's house.

The action is continuous and as the second act starts we find
the 'tha's finishing their meal.
Jata, the cuniing old man with
a zest for living that defies senility, prepares himself and his

inﬂecided nephew for a bout of acting.

They pretend for a while

that they are going to cure the jotedar and stall for time on
one pretext or another.
But soon Aghor's son and mistress Start
doubting, and the game becomes too much for Matla who gives it
up in dGSperation.
The village sentiment hardens against the
vacillating Matla while his daughter keeps harping on the irresponsibility that he is indulging.
She also provokes her father

by telling him that she‘doubts his very powers of curing. This
cuts deep and Matla,

accepting the challenge,

He is interrupted by his uncle and,

starts the rituals.

leaving things undone,

goes

out ~ drunk and completbly a loss.
Shankar, Aghor's son, uses his
absence to influence Badami with lures and threats.
Badami, acting
under the illusion that her unborn baby will have a safe future if

the jotedar is cured ani eXpecting him to change when he comes
back from the claws of death, approaches the dying figure with

w~_-

herbal medicines and with her untested powers.
Matla comes in at
this very moment and, rebuking her daughter for such adventurism,
decices ultimately to show his skill.
His basic honesty and huma—
nity prevails over his Ida indecisions and he starts the elaborate
ritual of bringing a man back to life.

Aghor Ghosh is saved.
unchanged.

But the crude lusty tyrant in him remains

As he crawls out of the

’dooli’

he is

almost

Subhuman-symbol of a System of heartless exploitation.

a savage

While the

wannth of a fire lit by Badami moves into his cold veins,

he revea—

ls an utter lack of any sense of gratitude and asks for his money
off Matla, eemanding Badani as well in the bargain. Scales fall
from the eyts of Badmni and she gives him the pithher containing

the fatal ’Gokkhur'.

But her snake, and so her destiny, fails her.

In the last moment of primitive frenzy, she picks up the spear lying at ham and kills the jotedar with a few mighty strokes, the
community sharing her wrath and championing her action.
The central crisis has thus an intrinsic duality with death
‘confronting life and one class confronting another.
The produc-

tion also operates on two levels - the level of: incidents happen—
ing and the level of elemental confrontations..

