The Group
AN U BHAV is a guild of acting artistes involved in creative pursuits concerned with theatre.

The guild aims at contributing to the evolution of a neo~theatre language defying popular
and stereotypical perceptions. The prime aspiration of ANUBHAV is to introduce the
elements of originality ofAssamese theatre at a global level. Since its inception in October
2002, the group has produced several plays including Rabindranath Tagore's
Rukutukurubi, Jayanta Das's Bsuntu Akou Ahiho, Tapan Das's Gogoponti Lukratuuu, Manoj
Uoswami's Aknmtu, Jyoti Narayan Nath's um'u’ussmncom, Moliere's Encii Lok Kata Dekha
Nui and Dostoevsky's \X/hite Nights. In addition to producing and staging these plays, the
troupe has also participated in a number of theatre festivals in and out ofAssam.

The Director
स्का Jyoti Narayan Nath, a graduate from National School of Drama, is a

freelance actor and director. Before joining NSD he was associated
with Seagull, a prominent Assamese theatre group and had acted,
I designed and directed in several plays during this time. After leaving
NSD Jyoti organized ANUBHAV, an actors' guild, directing and
acting in plays like Rabindranath Tagore's Rakta Karabi, Golpanaat,
है
Busanta Akou Auhiho, Dostoyevsky's White Nights and Moliere's The
३३
'१ ‘
Miser. He is also involved in visual media and has been awarded a
Junior Fellowship in theatre by the M i n istry of Culture, Government of India.
३
रु

‘1

Director's note
Miserliness seems to be a common phenomena in the world today. One is a miser
either in terms of wealth or understanding. Like the protagonist of the play, people
know how to keep their riches hidden but do not know the pleasure of spending
them. Such an attitude, I believe, is a mockery of any kind ofwealth or blessing.
The actors in this production have prepared this dramatic performance on the
basis of the French play The Miser by noted playwright Moliere. To enhance the
comic aspects of the play we have used the acting form and methodology of
kumrupiu dhulia.

