,- ५

T he Group
This production has heen put together mostly by young college and school students who are
participating in theatre activities for the first time in their lives. Thirty out of fiftyrfive
candidates, fifteen girls and fifteen hoys, all belonging to different parts of Aizwal,
Mizoram, were selected for this project. The main ohjective of this production oriented
workshop was to encourage a theatre culture among Mizo youth. Their discipline, hard
work, honesty and youthful energy formed the core of the group. A special thanks in this
regard must also he extended to NSD and the Art and Culture Deptt, Govt. of Mizoram,
for their continuous and combined efforts to make this production a possibility.
,- ५

.

T he Director
0

Mohamed Kunju Noushad started his theatre career with amateur and
commercial theatre groups, from where he went on do his specialization
in acting from the Trichur School of Drama, the NSD and the Theatre
Training and Research Programme (TTRP), Singapore. As an actor he

has participated in international productions like Miwa, an Indo;
Japanese project in Tokyo 1999; lmpenjimiment under Teatre
Ekamatra, a Malaysian Theatre Company; Performing \X/omen—
Clytemnestm and Helen, and The Spirits Play. His solo performance
Journey from Jurong East to City Hall has participated in the Singapore and Hong Kong
theatre festivals in 2005. He has conducted various workshops in and outside India
under the NSD extension programme; has worked in the NSD Repertory Company
(1999/2002); and as the Artistic Director of SRC New Delhi (2008 2009) Mr.

Noushad has also directed many plays. He is presently one of the members and
actors 01'- the TETC Company hased in Singapore.

Director's note
The main focus of the workshop was to gradually develop a hasic stage
vocahulary for the students so that they could explore and understand the
various aspects of theatre practices. The classes were suhject~liased and inputs
were given in the areas of acting, improvisation, speech, physical and vocal
skills, visual arts, choreography, set, props, music and make—up. This entire
production reflects the understanding and exploration ofstudents in all these

areas. The awareness and discipline of the students has helped this
production remarkahly. It was a wonderful experience to witness their
creative energy, discipline, hard work and hidden potentials.
My aim was to make this production an enjoyahle, memorahle and happy
journey for the participants. 1 thank them for making this aim a reality.

22

