The Group
Founded in 197.7, the lmphal Theatre is one ofthe leading theatre groups ofManipur. From
its inception it has been producing plays with themes ranging over epics, historical events,
popular folk tales and contemporary life. The group functions with the objective of
evolving a new performance culture through systematic training and an interdisciplinary
approach while drawing from the rich storehouse of traditional performing art forms
existing in the region.

T he Director
Loitongbam Dorendra started performing in stage plays as a young boy
from 1966. During the course of his involvement with theatre he has
been guided by eminent theatre directors like H. Nilamani, N. Tombi,
l

_

i

_

"की A;

… दृ '
1

L. Netrajit and Ratan Thiyam. He has participated in many national
and international theatre festivals; in workshops conducted by John
Martin, Pravir Guha, Sue Weston, and Heisnam Kanhailal; has

'३ "३ conducted workshops and directed plays like Draupadi, Bhoot
‘ Amusung Maikhum, Taj Mahal and Mcghdoot; and has won a number

of prizes as actor, director and playwright in state and national level festivals and
competitions. He was a member of the Expert Committee of the Manipur State
Kala Akademi from 1998,2000. Shri Dorendra engages himself in directing
Moirang I’arva plays, be it in its pure form or in more revvitalized and reinvented
versions, on a regular basis.

Director's note
Moirang I’arw, the only secular traditional theatre of Manipur is on the verge of
extinction. This total theatre form performed in the open, started in 1895
originating from the traditional mandap leelas of religious and less religious
leelas like Ras Leela, Gour Leela, Sabha I’arw, Virat I’arw etc. As an indigenous

theatre form it flourished with vigour and the people's support from 1920 to
1960. With all its colourful costumes, stylized acting, singing dialogues,
ingredients from various performing art forms like Pena, Khongjom PdTw, Wart
Leebu, Natasangkritana etc. Moimng Farm is a rare cultural possession of the
region. This production has been undertaken with the twin objectives of
reviving and revitalizing the Moirang l’arw. Khambu Thoibi Seircng, the epic
poetry written by Mahakavi Hijam Anganghal has been the guiding factor
while scripting the play.

26

