The Group
Badungduppa was estahlished in 1998 in the (iolapara district of Assam as a result of the
initiative of theatre lovers within the Rahha community. It is the only Rahha trihal theatre
group actively engaged in making contemporary theatre while Using their trihalism as a
springhoard. Under the artistic leadership otSukrachariya Rahha the group has produced
12 plays in the last ten years. Some t it. these are Tilduu', ( ,‘luuilcm'. Rupalim, Minder um Hindi,
Lorna, Muduiah Muchi and To' I’tutiom. The group has toured and pertormed their plays in
varioUs districts and cities. It also performed Jyotiprasad Agarwal's Riipulim directed lw
Sukracharjya Rahha under the Yr >u ng l )i rectt )r Scheme t it the Sangeet Natak Akadem i i n
New Delhi in January 3004.

The Director
Sukracharjya Rahha is one of the most active theatre worlxers ot

Assam. H )underrl hrectt »r i >1. Badungduppa, a trihal theatre group ot
Assam, he has directed several plays. some ot them heing Riipultm
(Rahha), Mucluiuh the ( fohhle‘r (Rahha), i hit: x\ru Hindi (Rodol‘ Lotitu

(Nepali) and To'l’tuclmn. He performed Jyotiprasad Agarwal's
" Rupulim under the Young Director Scheme ot' the Sangeet Natak

Alcademi in january 2004. In 3003 he met l l. Kanhailal and was
greatly influenced hy his theatre. Hencetorth their relationship
evolved in the guru/shishya tradition and he was an apprentice under (luru
Kanhailal at Manipur Kalakhetra, lmphal. He now works independently as a
director and tries to promote the cultural heritage otthe Rahha community as well

as other ethnic groups like the Bodos and ( iaros through theatre art.

Director's note
We, the Rahhas, have heen listening to this story since for generations, although
we never looked at it from this perspective. Lately the changing political
environment, erosion oi human values and glohalizat ion have threatened the
soc io'cultural identities otditterent ethnic groups. ( :ertain groups seem to have
forgotten the relationship hetween the nation, society and the individual, and

are concerned onlywith meeting their personal needs.
The question is what are the causes ol this turint >il.’ Some are sat isl ied wit h
accepting "external forces" as the root cause while others hlaine our inherent

weakness. But we still don't have the right answer. l’erhaps time will present
the solution. i think the story reflects many social conllicts ()l today and this
play is its theatrical expression as per my understanding and leelings. i hope
you enjoy it as much as i do.

] (J

