The Group
Hatbor Kendriya Natya Samaj, established in 1933, is a leading cultural institution of the
Nagaon district in the state of Assam. The group aims to propagate the Sankari and other folk
arts amongst different communities of the region and has taken up schemes for the publicity
of arts like the Ankiu Bluzona drama f1 11३111, Brim, 3८111'1कु'८९-८1८111८८ etc. both in and outside the State.

~23. ८o. 2

The artists of the Hatbor Kendriya Natya Samaj have performed cultural shows such as
the Ankiu Blmonu at different places like the International Trade Fa i r, New Delh i and the
Ramayan Mela at Ayodhyalittar I’radesh.
The group also provides training of these forms and has stalwarts of the forms like Guru
Sri Ghana Kanta Borbayan 21nd Guru Sri H iro Mahanta as instructors.

The Director
H iro Prasad Mahanta comes from a family that has been connected to
theatre for several generations. After considerable work in the area he

became a member of the Assam Satra Mahasabha 21nd Hatbor 1-३"
Kendriya Natya Samaj. He is also the founder of the Satriya Cultural
Troup of. Kaliabor, 21 group that specializes in organizing theatre 21nd
Ankiya Bhaona workshops b ased on the traditional Assamese folk
form Some of the major plays directed by him are Kama Iarm
Salmntala, Ram Vijay 21nd Rukmini Hcmm. His play \itu Humn Bali
Badl1lhas been performed 5 times as a part of the Republic Day Iarade

Director's note

38

a»
.

’ C

"हैं"
2 _

क्यों
H -

"T

प्र'

I;

ही'

2

v

I was born and brought tip in a Satra (religious set-up established by Sankar Deva)
where religion and culture were practiced side by side. It is here that I learned
about Ankia Bhaona, a novel format of performance devised by Srimanta
Sankardeva in 15th century Assam which is still popular throughout the state
and is enacted regularly with reverence 21nd gaiety It is 2m integrral part of
Assam's cultural tradition 21nd is one of the mainstays of its religious soc 1or D
cultural identity. Keeping this in mind, whenever I have performed the Situ
Harem Bali Budh Bhaona, I have always tried to keep its traditional format intact. k .
I strive to portray the dance 21nd dialogue part in its original form and use
authentic traditional musical instruments like the khol (mridanga), cymbal,
gong etc. in the performance.
Sita Harem Bali Badh depicts the triumph of good over evil and peace over
violence. This message is very relevant in today's context. I expect
constructive criticism from the connoisseur and offer apologies for the faults
and shortcomings on my part.

