VANDE - MATARAM

वन्दे मातरम्
NINETY YEARS OF FREEDOM STRUGGLE
A BRIEF SYNOPSIS
PROLOGUE : The dance drama attempts to project the strdggle of the Indian people for freedom from foreign
rule from 1857 to 1947. The objective is not just to show the march of events in a Chronological sequence, but to
see them in their historical perspective, thereby emphasising the values underlying these events which inspired the
people to rise in revolt against the might of the British Empire.
SCENE-I : Various tableauxs are shown from the great panorama of man’s struggle for freedom from all kinds of
slavery, scenes from slave trade, from religious persecutions, from the sufferings of the enlightened, from

aperthied as it is being practised in Africa today (Dissolves into the India of pre-mutiny of 1857).
SCENE-II : The plight of the suffering Indian people, sad faces, angry faces, worried faces, working people leading
a miserable life.
SCENE-III : Mutiny breaks out, led by Nana Sahib, Rani Jhansi & Tatiatope. Lotus flower is distributed which was
३
the symbol of the mutiny.
FIGHT SCENE : Rani Jhansi is killed in action, Nana becomes a fugitive — Tatiatope is hanged. The British win.
SCENE IV : The souls of those, who have perished call upon the youth of India to carry on the struggle for freedom.
SCENE-V : Bahadurshah Zafar being led to a Burmese prison. He is seen uttering his famous poem - “Lagta Nahi
Hai Dil Mera”.
SCENE-VI : Total gloom in the country - Torch Light Procession of people showing the efforts of the people to find
their way out of the darkness.
Role of Dayanand, Ram Mohan Roy, Vivekanand, Sir Sayed Ahmed Khan &'other intellectuals like Bamkim &
Tagore to bring a new spirit culminating in “Vande Mataram” - & Resurgence in Maharashtra Ganesh Utsav
“Swaraj is my birth right” - Slogan by Lokmanya Tilak.

SCENE-VII : Arrival of Gandhiji from Africa.
BACKGROUND COMMENTARY : History brought forward a new personality in the arena who understood real
India, rnobolised the people through such methods as would enable them to stand up high. His fight was on two
planes - political freedom and freedom from many social evils like untouchability. He used Satya-Grah as his major

weapon & non violence as his credo in every struggle that the people waged under his leadership. In the
meanwhile brutalities of the British increased.

'

SCENE-VIII : Baisakhi Festival in Punjab, Jallianwala Bagh is enacted.
SCENE-IX : Prabhat Pheries - Narnak Satyagrah - Dandi March _- pledge for Poorana Swaraj.
COMMENTARY : The British used the Princes & Nawabs & Communalisrn to sow the seeds of disunity among the

people. Sardar Bhagat Singh is executed along with his companions.

SCENE-X : Holi Festival - People throw foreign goods & clothes into fire.

SCENE-X I : British power is shown in the form of Magician & Indian people as various articles which he choses to
use at his own will. His main weapon is Communalism. This magic show exposes the inherent weakness of Indian
socrety, Disunity, Castism Cornrnunalisrn and growing differences of wealth & power.
COMMENTARY : On the one hand the British tried to devide the country & on the other the people got their
inspiration from various poets & intellectuals who sang for freedom.

SCENE—XII : Narration by various poets.
COMMENTARY : Second world war broke out - India was in chains. Indian National Congress under the

leadership of Mahatama Gandhi & Jawahar Lal Nehru gave the call - “Quit India” and the movement spread like
wild fire.

SCENE-XIII : Movement of the people - Strike. I.N.A. - clashes between the British forces & People.
SCENE-XIV : Midnight - People are seen assembled - Nehru’s voice is heard. His famous midnight speech “India’s
Tryst with Destiny” is heard, People hail India’s freedom & there is celebration all over.

