not deserve any serious attention.
Our concern is that other theatre
where dedicated artists are struggling to ﬁnd a genuine artistic
expression, may be
called the
minority theatre but this minority should constantly increase
without ever becoming a majority.
And this can happen only if it
gets constant and regular theatre
choices which is possible only if
there are a few permanent repertory companies giving regular
performances. And here lies the
rub.
Unfortunately Delhi is perhaps

the only major city in the country
which does not yet have a permanent professional company. This
is not to say that the work of
amateur groups is not important.
On the contrary, some of the most
signiﬁcant work is always done
by dedicated and daring amateur
groups. But to make theatre a
habit, an integral part of people’s
lives, a regular theatre is a must.
This has not happened in Delhi
so far. There have been two at—

tempts in this direction. One was number of shows a particular
group is capable of staging in
by the late Begum Qudsia Zaidi
who founded Hindustani Theatre a year.
and I have no doubt that had she
There is lack of a coherent and
lived a little longer her semi-proconscious
cultural policy from
fessional company would have
top
to
bottom.
The only visible
really become a full—ﬂedged ﬂouractivity is doling out sums, small
ishing professional company, for
or large, without visualising the
such was the zeal and dedication
qualitative outcome.
of that grand lady. Another attempt (Delhi Playhouse) was
The SNA perhaps does not
made by three other entrepreneurs
have enough money to give. The
R. G. Anand, J. D. Tytler, and
Department of Culture a few
Amrit Nayar, but it proved aboryears ago with all its noble and
tive. The Playhouse was closed
grand designs took a step which,
down even before it could stage
one thought at the moment,
its ﬁrst play. The play was Agha
would give a big boost to foundHashr Kashmiri’s Rusturn Sohing a permanent company. Apart
rab. Habib 'I‘anvir was its direc- from other centres in India, two
tor and eventually it was put up
groups in Delhi, Little Theatre
under the banner of another
Group and Naya Theatre, have
organisation.
so far been the beneﬁciaries of
this scheme (approximately Rs. 50
The State through its two
to 60 thousand a year). This
channels, Sangeet Natak Aka— could have been the harbinger of
demi and the Department of Cul- a new phase in the theatre of this
city. But the hope remains unture. does give subsidy to some
realised. Naya Theatre, in spite
theatre groups. SNA’s grants
are so meagre that they do not of producing one or two exciting
plays in a year, has not served the
take into account one major bill
~ hall rent or publicity for the
purpose of a permanent company

