Saiwan. Umed Singh Bhandari, Umed Singh Rawat (Junior), Prem Uniyal and
many others played an
important role in keeping Jaagar an active group.

Jaagar got another lease of life

under the presidentship of Shri U. S. Rawat who very ably managed
its activities. He had been instrumental in creating favourab
le atmosphere for merger of Sangit Natak
Samai. Parvatiya Patrakar Mandal and Garhwal Sahitya Mandal
which was formalized on May 12, 1965.
The new body thus formed after the merger was named
Garhwal Sahitya Kala Samaj and had on its
roll some new faces, namely, Sarvashri Virendra Mohan
Ratoori, Rajendra Singh Rawat. G. P. Thapaliyal

‘Kankal’, Rajendra Dhasmana and Satish Jugran.

Jaagar became very active during this period and

staged many new one-act plays such as Ek Jaw Agnai,
In Bhi Cha/da, Doono Janam. etc.

Previously

Shri Lalit Mohan Thapaliyal's one—act plays were the only
plays with Jaagar. Later Shri Umed Singh
Rawat had to pay attention to Garhwal Hiteshini when
he became its presiden t and Jaagar, for some
time lost an enthusiastic president till Sarvashri Ram Prasad
Joshi, Yadunan dan Prasad Dangwal.
Sudama Prasad Mamgain and Chandra Ballabh Kukreti came
to its rescue. Later Shri U. S. Rawat
also had to leave Delhi on transfer of service.

Sarvashri Ram Prasad Nautiyal, Mohan Chand
ra Dandriyal, Chandra Mohan Kabadiyal, Bihari
Lal
Nautiyal, Kanta Prasad Thapaliyal and Satya
Prakash Hindwan had already been there since
Shri
U. S.
Rawat’s time. Now that Sarvashri Mitra
Nand Maithani, Mitra Nand Kukreti, Raja
Khugshal, Govardhan
Prasa

d Thapaliyal, Mahesh Budakoti, Ved Prakash Bounth

iyal, Swaroop Dhondiyal, Jagdamba Prasad
Baunthial, Fateh Ram Dandriyal, M. L. Dabral
, B. B. Dabral etc. have also joined the group'
its
activities on the stage have again been enhanced.
amended constitution on August 22, 1976.

The group has been rechristened as Jaagar with

The current period may be regarded as the third
phase in the life of the group when
it enters into the
ﬁeld of modern stage. The era of one-act plays
has beconre a thing of the past now
and the group has
come forward with the real drama — a purpo
seful enactrnen t of community art.

