हँड्डेत्छख्याड्डठे (क्या
MUSICAL SITTINGS. Musical sittings top the list of various activitie
s of Jaagar in so far as number
of programmes is concerned. In the past twenty-three years no fewer
than fifty musical sittings
had been arranged and many of them successfully also.

This year's contribution of Jaagar in the

field of music is its participation in the third national chorus competition
organized by the Bengal
Association at Karnani Auditorium on the 29th August 1976.

The group songs were composed by

Rajendra Dhasmana and Harish Ghildiyal and the music given by the latter.

PUBLICATIONS.

A well brought out ooIIection of ﬁve popular Garhwali one-act plays entitled

Khadu Lapata ar Anya Natak written by Shri Lalit Mohan Thapaliyal
remains as the only publication of
Jaagar so far. It had decided to publish some other works also but
could not make any headway

because of paucity of funds.

ILLUSTRATED TALKS AND FILM SHOWS.

In 1958 Shri Mukundi Lal. Bar-at-Law, gave an illustrated

talk on

Similarly on

the Garhwal School of paintings.

May 1, 1966, Shri Bachchi Ram

Maithani spoke on ‘Indian Art and Its Cultural Heritage'. He supported his convictions by projecting
slides on the screen and later replied queries from the audience. Again on November
4, 1972, by
arrangement with the National Museum, a film ‘Bal Ramayana' and other documentaries
were shown to
the members.
LITERARY SITTINGS.

Jaagar convened about sixteen literary sittings from time to time.

Some

of them were well attended by members and invities. On July 11, 1965, Shrl Rajendra Dhasrnana
recited his 12 poems which were later discussed at length by members present. On June 8,
1966 a

short story by Shri Kankal was listened to and discussed by members. In October 1966 Shri Pradip
Pant read his paper on poems of Shri Shyarn Vimal and Shri Rajendra Dhasmana and Shri Kankal
initiated the discussion on them. Later both the poets while replying queries from the audience
elaborated their respective standpoints and elucidated problems of contemporary Hindi literature.

Similarly On January 17, 1973, in a largely attended sitting Smt. Madhuri Mathur presented a paper on
three collections of poems, viz. . Lanng Kiran by Sh ri Part‘hasarathi D abral , Himshi/a P/gh/i by
Shri Uma Shankar Satish, Ajnavi Shahar Men by Shri Devendra Upadhyaya and Natak Jari Hai by
Shri Liladhar Jagoori. Shri Mitra Nand Kukreti initiated the discussion in which, among many others,

Sarvashri Pradip Pant, Prabhati Nautiyal, Taradutt Upadhyaya, Nitya Nand Joshi, Kalika Prasad Kala
took an active part. Shri Rajendra Dhasmana summed up the discussions and concluded the meeting,
convened by himself. On October 20, (974, Shri Raja Khugshal read a paper on the two novels by
Shri Jagdish Chandra Pandey, viz., Gages ke Tat Par and Samgya se Pahale. Shri Poorna Chandra
Bahati in his own way discussed both the novels quite interestingly. Shri Rajendra Dhasrnana, the

