NAT'YA SAMARﬂII 1984

December 16
llll‘RklRA A\¥\l :\\‘l l'

Adaptation of Sphocles Antigone
by Sneh Bagen Ramaswamy
Produced by Nija Nataka lyakkarn, Madurai

Designed and directed by M. Ramaswarny
S V ' जि, (३) P S l 5
After the death of the King of Vindhya, a civil war broke out between the
royalists and the masses. The former were led by Princ: Angathan and the latter
by Prince Mangathan. Both got killed and Thurkiran, next of king, came to the
throne. On assuming ofﬁce, his ﬁrst act of governance was to accord Angathan, an
officially declared patriot, royal funeral rights. Since Mangathan was branded a

traitor his body was ordered to be thrown to the wolves. It was further decreed that
anyone who attempted to do Mangathan any honour, would be also treated as a
traitor. Yamini, the sister of the dead princes, however, defied the royal command

and performed the last rites on her unfortunate brother’s dead body. She was
arrested for treason and eventually tortured to death. King Thurkiran’s son
Venman, who was in love with her, committed suicide while his mother, the queen,
died of shock. Thurkiran, the tyrannical monarch, was thus left all to himself;
desolate and deserted. What remained with him was his conscience which plagued
him into eternity.

Dl R E C TO R'S N O TE

Thurkira Avalam is an adaptation of Sophocle’s ‘Antigone’. The tragedy of
princess Antigone is converted into the tragedy of King Creon. this slant is given to

the play in order to portray the inevitability of a despot’s downfall. He goes from evil
to evil as Macbeth went from murder to murder propelled by the unrelenting forces
of self-destruction. I have explored folk forms of Tamilnadu in order to evolve a
new idiom. The chorus and the Kattiyakaran (Sutradhar) have been inspired by the
folk forms of Therukoothu, Thevaraattam and Oyilummi. Therukoothu is a folk
theatre form associated with temple festivals. Theuaraatam is a ritualistic dance
performed by a particular community known as the Karnbalatthu Nayakkars.

Oyilkummi is a rural community dance. Whereas Therukoothu mOvement from
Draupadi Vastraharanam has been effectively used to depict the torment of the
princess, the rituals relating to the burial of the dead in Thevaraattam have lent
effective symbols for the related situation in the play.
C A ST A N D C R E D lT 5

K. Balakrishnan and T. Sethupandian— Kattiyakaran; M. Ramaswamy—
Thurkiran; M. Pushpa— Sutharsanai; M. Sudanthiranathan— Venman;
Lakshmi— Yamini; M. Pushpa— Sowmini; R. Raju— Rajaguru; A. Ramaswamy—
Messenger; K. Selvaraj— Angathan; 5. Kamani— Mangathan.

Chorus— M. Kumararaman, P. Dhanusurarnan, V. Na appan, K. Kumaragopan,
S. Subburaman, M. Arumugam Appansamy, T. ankanah, .. Kamiah, N
Ranjithavel Bommu.

Music: 5. Sivaraman (Mridangam); M. Varadarajan (Harmonium); K. Murugan
(Urumi); and S. Subbiah, K. Selvaraj, K. Balakrishnan (Vocal).

Lighthing: T.V. Gopinath; Stage Manager: T.S. Rajan; Properties: लि Rarnani and
MK. Nayakkar; Stage Design, Costume and Make-up; R. Raiu;

M. RAMASWAMY
Dr. Ramaswamy is Assistant Professor of Drama, Tamil University, Thaniavur.
Nija Nataka lyakkam, is an amateur group engaged in vitalising contemporary
theatre in Tamilnadu.

