NATYA SWO“ 1984
December 18
CHAKRAVYUH lll Mtiiiipiii:

Designed, scripted and directed by

RATAN THlYAM
Produced by Chorus Repertory Theatre, lrnphal

SY N O PS l S
Dhritarashtra asks Sanjay how Abhirnanyu knows the art of entering the
Chakravyuh. There is only one source of vulnerability, and that is Arjuna, who

knows this military formation. For the rest, its invincibility has been assured by that
master-trainer in military strategy, Dronacharya. The play begins.
Sanjay relates the story of Abhirnanyu’s mystifying initiation into the technique

in question. In the presence of the pregnant Subhadra, Arjuna, her husband,
explains to Lord Krishna, her brother, the tactics of breaking into the Chakravyuh.

Unfortunately, however, though the lifeforde in Subhadra’s beings—Abhimanyu in
his embryonic stage —~irnbibes the first part of the code, it misses out on the second
part: namely the principle of coming out of the Vyuh, unscathed. For she, in the
meantime, has fallen asleep.

During the war at Kurukshetra Dronacharya prepares the Chakravyuh at a
point of time when Arjuna is engaged in a battle elsewhere. He has, however, not
bargained for the fearless Abhirnanuyu, who enters the formation and defeats the
Kauravas several times. He is eventually subjugated by foul military tactics and
killed.

The play ends but the episode leaves unresolved the question of the sacrificial
scape-goat and the rejection of truth.

D I R EC TO R ‘ S NOTE
The play has evolved in workshop and has been scripted under a daily work-

process which has involved the actor‘s confrontation with different aspects of the
science of theatre. This is my first phase of work done under the project, “Actor’s
Methodology" in which the ‘actor' has been made observer, participant and
perfor mer .

C A ST A N D CREDITS
Doran: Sutradhar; Sanatomba: Paripurshwik 1; Angoutombi: Pariparshwik 2;
lbomcha Sorok: Abhimanyu; Tornba: Sumitra; Makhonmani: Yudhishthira;
Ibomcha Wang: Bhima; R.K. Bhogen: Dronacharya; lbochouba Meetei: Kama;
Premananda Ningthouja: Ashwatihama; lboyairna: Kripacharya; Damayanti:
Subhadra; Chrous: Angoutombi, Premananda, Jillasana, lboyairna, Sanaiomba,
Doren, Ibomcha, Makhonmani:
Ratan Thiyam (b. 1948)

The Chorus Repertory Theatre of lrnphal, established since 1973, uses old
ritualistic and dance traditions of the the region contributing to lndian
contemporary theatre a very distinctive idiom. Ratan Thiyam, its leading light, is an

NSD graduate.

Program m e
at 6.15 pm.
Knmani Auditorium

THURKIRA AVAIAM (Tamil)
Director : M. Rummy

"mail167‘ 15):)“: 1984

PASHU GAYAT'R] (Rama: )

‘ Audltbﬂ‘um

K

Tum-"~6‘?BD¢°~ 193*
आँ

०

P-m-

क्या। Auditorium

WW» I 9 Dec”. 1%
K

at “Mu
6.16 pm.
mmum

Director: Bum: Blunt

CHAKRAWUHA (Manipuri)
t
Du.“ or

:Ratan'nu

m
y.

ASH'Q TE GOPAL] (Mmm )
Director.. RS . Kemu

