Bltl'thtT SINBII SHAHEEII
_

DERE‘LCTDR'S N DTE

I

.

_

…

,

We present before you, Dr. CD. Sidhu's trilogy at plays on Shaheed Bhagat} 'i
Singh. They mark the wiring and staging of Dr. Sidhu's 25th, 26th i and 27),
Original Full -Length scripts.
i i
Dr. Sidhu has researched the lite and achievements at Bhagat Singh artd’.1lti_gsiii
revolutionary friends tor twenty-five years. A lot of hard work and contemplatifor'iii
have gone into his effort to make the Great Martyr come alive on the stage. I
The most precious part at Bhagat Singh's life for the coming generations lies है :
his ideas, his revolutionary philosophy. The chief artistic aim at the playwright. _
to dramatise Bhagat Singh's thinking, to highlight his social, political
rationalist philosophy.
.
b i

Dr. Sidhu attempts to rescue Bhagat Singh and his colleagues of the Hindosttctrit,
Socialist Republican Association from the fanatic clutches of the obscurantiﬁﬁ
"'Hindu" and "Sikh" historians. Bhagat Singh's- esSays -- “Why I Am An Atheist?"
and “Introduction to the Dreamland" -- and his Jail Notebook form the thematic
basis of this Trilogy. Till the moment of his death by hanging, Bhagat Singh
continued to be a confirmed Atheist and Communist.

i

i

The Trilogy dramatizes the following periods ot Bhagat Sin'gh's biography:
_
Part |:- BHAAGANWALA POTRA: The portrait of the Revalutionary _ as _ a
Youngman. Bhagat Singh, as a student in Lahore. Under Mahatma‘Hasi ।ल1०सा _

D.A.V. School. Later, under Bhai Parmanand in the National‘ College.» ,

revolutionary spirit soaring above superstition and the gallows 9- a beacon at“

t

light tor ages to come.
'
' i
May this tribute at our Collegiate Drama Society to the ideas and sacrifice of the
'lmmortal Martyr prove an eye-opener to today's; Obscurantists, blind murderers.
and corrupt politicians.
ऐ":
V
ii

..
. . ८८१’1८८८८८८1८५ हाँर्टाहूँर्ह श्लीक्शाड्डेहादृड्डीणु ५८.

Bhai Randhir Singh and the brave rationalist Atheist Bhagat Si‘n'gh}. His

. '
i ' g a“ ३
Li..zgﬂ._."‘;__m

Part llt: NAAST'AKSHAHEED: The last six months at the Visionary .ﬁMartyr in
the Death Cell. The debate ‘ on' Religion between the fanatic rtarer-mirtded

५… ___

influence of his Grandfather, uncle Aiit Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha
Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Dedicating his lite too tight tortreedom as against 3३
secure domesticity.
५g
V
. i
_
…
१
i ‘
Part II: INKLABI PUTT'AR: The Assembly Bomb Case. Organising an All India
Army at Freedom Fighters like Chandra Shekhar Azad and B.K.
With a
clearly defined political and economic philosophy tar a Socialist Republic.

m.

RAVI T'ANEJA
, _
_
_. 4
है Note: About one-sixth of th e eXpenditure on these three productions was 'metybfyzf
म

:ia- grant from the Department of Culture, H. R. D. Ministry Government ot'lndia‘. और
i ' ३ ३३३ वै
३ r friend donated Rs 2 SOD/a Our thanks.
i

