About the Play “AN - ।

G

Andha Yug focuses on the last day of the
Mahabharata war. The ramparts are in ruins, the

city is burning and Kurukshetra is covered with
corpses and vultures. The few bewildered survivors of the Kaurava clan are overcome by grief
and rage. Longing for one last act of revenge,
they refuse to condemn Ashwatthama when he
releases the ultimate weapon, the brahmastra.
which threatens to annihilate the world. instead,
they blame Krishna for having caused the war.
and curse him.
The moral centre of the play lies in Krishna. He
is the voice of compassion, an embodiment of all
that is good and just in the world. Despite his
failure to ensure peace, it is his presence
throughout the play which reveals to us that the
ethical and the sacred are always available to
human beings even in the worst of times.

Andha Yug is one of the most significant plays of
modern lndia. Written immediately after the par-

tition of the Indian subcontinent. the play is a,
profound meditation on the politics of violence
and aggressive selﬂiood. The moral burden of
the play is that every act of violence inevitably
debases society as a whole.

Alok Bhalla's translation captures the essential
tension between the nightmare of self-enchant—
ment. which the story of the Kauravas represents. and the ‘ever-present possibility of finding

a way out o
tive ethicality.

ycle of revenge into a redernp-

One of th:
st signiﬁcant plays of post—
lndependence India, Dhararnvir Bharati's Andha
Yug raises pertinent moral issues in the context
of Partition-related atrocities. The action of the
play takes place on the last day of the
Mahabharata war and is centered on a few
bewildered survivors of the Kaurava clan. The
figure of rishna is central to the narrative. He
represents the infinite variety of ways in which
the good manifests itself in the ordinary world.
He is the man of Justice and truth. The
Kauravas, however, are unable to imagine the
truth about Krishna. This failure of imagination
becomeiutlae cause of their ﬁnal undoing.

’ About The Writer
Shri “Dharamvir Bharti”
DHARAMAVlR BHARATI, One .of the pioneers
of modern Hindi literature, Dharamavir Bharati
(2509c. 1926-49199?) is renowned as a novelist, poet and dramatist. He was since 1960, editor of Dharmyug, a leading Hindi weekly. His
notable works are the novel Suraj Ka Satvan
Ghoda (The seventh Horse of the Sun), a collection of poems titled Kanupriya, apart from the
verse-play Andha Yug, which has been acknowldged as a milestone in Hindi literature.
reservation of human values has been his passionate concern in all his writings. He was also
the editor of Dharamyug, one of the most impor-

tant weeklies published in India.

