Delhi Art Theatre
Flat 36, Shanker Market, Connaught Circus
New Delhi-110001

Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution
in promoting and enriching theatre. Its productions have been acclaimed not only in Delhi
but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and beyond. Particularly in the ﬁeld
of operas and musical dramas the group under the direction of Sheila Bhatia has carved a .
unique and unrivalled place for itself. It is gratifying to note that those who till recently
scoffed at this genre are enthusiastically adopting or attempting to introduce music and
dance in their plays. We can take legitimate pride as the innovators and creators of this
movement as we always believed that Indian theatre, if it has to take ﬁrm roots cannot do
without integrating song, dance and drama based on indigenous forms using modern
techniques.
Call of the Valley was our ﬁrst attempt in this genre. It was followed by Rukhe-Khet
which attained a larger measure of integration in its musical form.
Form these first steps emerged the Opera, Heer Ranjha, which solidly laid the
foundation of a modern and at the same time indigenous form of opera.
as a landmark in theatre by the critics and the public alike.

It was acclaimed

The opera Prithviraj Chauhan followed. It captured the spirit of 12th century India.
It was hailed as a very bold experiment which portrayed diverse moods and situations
through haunting melodies and thunderous choruses.
After this opera followed Chann Badlan Da which again was acclaimed as a unique
musical incorporating the best in folk music with the best in stage craft.

Ghlib Kaun Hai broke new ground by presenting a musical in Urdu. The combination of verse, prose, music and chorus lent it colour and charm. It achieved universal
acclaim and solidly laid the foundations of a new type of musical drama.
Next the group presented Jaan-e-Ghazal, again a musical in Urdu.
depicts the evolution of Ghazal from Amir Khusro to the present day.
Ghazal cannot capture serious thought is belied by this musical.

This musical
The idea that

This was followed by Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka——Hawwa-se—Hippie Tale. The theme is
Indian 'woman, from ancient times to the modern. It is not a panegyric to Indian women,
but depicts the stark reality behind the silken curtain.

