In all these major productions training formed an integral part for artists whether
they were actors, singers or technicians, Many raw hands became proﬁcient in their crafts
through this training. Some of them are big names in the cultural world.
Since the later half of 1976 the group, in recognition of its distinctive service to
theatre, was selected for ﬁnancial assistanre by the Department of Culture, Government of
India. Under that scheme NADIR SHAH was the ﬁrst presentation. It is a great help and
has enabled the group to have continuous creative activities round the year.
Nadir Shah is a magniﬁcent presentation of histOry. It was followed by another
ambitious musical drama Yasmin based on Lorca’s famous play Yerma. This play attained

great heights in acting and production values.

Then we performed Smt. Shanti Mehrotra’s

Hindi play “Thera Hua Pani”. This deals with the plight of a middle class family ruled by
the authoritative hand of the father.
Jugni, an original folk musical drama based on the folk melodies of Pothwar (Wes:
Punjab) was yet another landmark in musical theatre. It showed the development of ideas

and songs in that region which are affected by new tensions and changing socioeconomic
conditions, This was followed by Jeewan-Ki-Hai, an opera based on the poetry of Bhai
Vir Singh. This was a unique experiment.
Last year Dard Ayega Dab-e Paon, a musical drama by Sheila Bhatia based on the
poetry of Faiz Ahmed Faiz was performed. It was a very difﬁcult and challenging production. It created a stir and was played to packed houses. This year the group was specially
invited by the Punjab Government to give performances of Dard Ayega Dab-e Paon at
Chandigarh, Patiala and Amritsar. It was acclaimed everywhere and the audience reaction
was tremendous. It was followed by a straight play in Hindi Mitro Marjani written by
Krishna Sobti and directed by B. M. Shah.

again we repeated Mitro Marjani.

It was very much appreciated.

This year

This was directed by Saba Zaidi and was highly

acclaimed.

And now YEH ISHQ NAHIN AASAN. This is a new experiment in musical theatre.
It posed many challenges. It deals with the subject of love, the basic force of life. But
Sheila Bhatia shows how oppressive social pressures mutilate it.

President
Inder Gujral

Vice-President
Kuldip Nayar

General Secretary

Treasurer

Hali Vats

S. K. Mehra

