A Note on the Play
It is certainly not easy to love and have its fulﬁlment. I have earlier taken Heer
Ranjha, Prithvi Raj Chauhan where society stands as a wall between two lovers. Scanning
through ghazals which has love as the basic theme, I was inspired to take up these impediments against love as a theme for a musical play.
This musical has used ghazals, quartets and couplets by over forty poets from wan
to modern poets like F'aiz Ahmed Faiz.
Ghazal is a composite cultural heritage of Hindus and Muslims. It is dying fast.
An occasional Mushaira and a ghazal symposium is the only from left for its survival.
Still it is so popular that people ﬂock whenever there is an opportunity for them to listen
to it, be it in a ﬁlm or a gathering for ghazal singing. There is a craze to collect ghazal
tapes.

Delhi Art Theatre has very successfully experimented with ghazal and has given a
theatrical expression to it putting it into a situation which demands it and thus elucidating
its meaning which can be easily understood by the viewer. We have earlier experimented
very successfully in the genre by producing Ghalib Kaun Hai and Jaan-e-GhaZal written by"
S.M. Mehdi.

Last year we presented ‘Dard Aaye ga Dab-e Paon’ based on the poetry of Faiz
Ahmed Faiz. This poet alone was gigantic enough to cover a vast panorama of human
emotions through his ghazals which crossed the barrier of love between man and woman
and enveloped with equal intensity his love for his fellow beings. Faiz has given a new
concept to love in ghazal which Dard Aaye ga Dab-e Paon tried to capture.
Love has inspired ﬂights of imagination of urnpteen of poets who have sung about
this basic force of life. But may be for the ﬁrst time so many poets have been brought
together to highlight this theme. Various poets have written about the multifacets of
love—the desire, longing, union, separation, disappointment, jealousy, rivalry, beauty, etc.
They have written about 3111-0 ~— Bulbul (ﬂower and nightingale) Maikhana (the tavern)
spring time and other elements which help to heighten the emotions of love. But in ‘Yeh
IsthahinAasan’, the use of ghazal has been put in a diﬁerent perspective. Pages of
history are full of

love episodes like Laila Majnu, Heer Ranjha, Shirin Farhad, Romeo

Juliet, Othello—Desdemona and many others. Society in its bigotry, hypocrisy and false
values has always frowned upon this love. Reason? Jealousy? Their own inability to

go beyond the worldly love for which society has set its norms ?

A boy and a girl are

