DELHI A 1२ T THEATRE
Flat 36, Shankar Market, New Delhi-l

Delhi Art Theatre has earned a distinctive place in the capital for their bold and
imaginative approach towards theatre. They strive to combine the best in literature with
best in theatre.

Delhi Art Theatre has many outstanding performances to its credit. Kesro,
Godan, Dada Damodar, Kanjoos, Post Ofﬁce and Shodshi—all were recognized as
very good
it h ea t re .

In. the ﬁeld of opera Delhi Art Theatre has achieved outsta
nding successes. Call of
the Valley was their ﬁrst attempt in this genre. Actually it
would be more correct to call
it a song-drama. It was followed by Rukhe—khet which
attained a larger measure of integration

in its musical f'orm.

From these ﬁrst steps emerged the opera Heer Ranjha, which solidly
laid the foundation
of a modern and at the same time indigenous form of
opera. It was acclaimed as a landmark

in theatre by the critics and the public alike. ३

-

The opera Prithviraj Chauhan followed. It tried to captur
e the spirit of 12th century
india. The beautiful and haunting melodies of the opera
supported by thunderous choruses
portrayed the changing moods and situations.

After this opera followed Chann ‘Badlan Da which again
was acclaimed as a unique
musical incorporating the best in folk music with modern techni
que.

Gha'ib Kim" Hal bmke new ground by Presenting a musical in Urdu.

The combin

e
ation of verse, prose, music and chorus was a uniqu
e experiment. It achieved universal
acclaim and has solidly laid the foundations
of a new type of musical drama
Next the group presented 3330-8-Ghalal, again a music
al in Urdu.

This musical
depicts the evolution of Ghazal from Amir Khusr
o to the present dav. The idea that Ghaza]
cannot capture serious thought is belied by this musical,

This time the group is presenting Kissa Yeh AuratKamﬂawwass
e-ﬂippie Tak.

The

theme is Indian women from ancient times to the
modern. - It is not a ‘panegyric to Indian
women, but depic
ts the stark reality behind the silken curtain.

