A Brief Note on Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka-Hawwa-Seoﬂippie 'I‘ak

‘ ‘ I am the spirit of Eve, of Draupadi and Sita,

For ages I have existed in huts and in palaces,
I am a mother, sister, daughter-in-law and a beloved too.
Stones were etched and sculptures carved of me.
Canals were dug and mountains jumped over in my name.
But what am I? The reality that was and is
Only I know the truth of my existence
How my inner desires behind my silences ﬂuttered, rose and fell and died.
My tears ﬂooded the Ganga
Even today I am Tara’s crumpled soul
0f Bulbul (the mod girl) that wanders amongst ﬂowers directionless
Come, you all, and listen to my tale
And witness the unravelling of my soul
How my happiness is weighed even today against pearls and diamonds
Because . . the whole world is a big market place where every thing is sold.”

Thus sings Roshni, the eternal spirit in the Opera in the opening scene. The Opera
deals with the status of Indian women at villageand city level. It makes the point that deso
pite great names amongst Indian women like Razia Begum, Noor Jahan, Rani Jhansi, status
of women has remained inferior. She has no rights of her own except those bestowed on her
by her father or husband. A woman has lived a life of subjugation all along. The author
makes the point that a woman is like a spurious coin in society. From times immemorial

she has been the victim of injustice. Our Goddesses were no exception. Draupadi was
pawned by her Pandava husbands, Sita was sent into banishment on a mere suspicion. It
was the social system that permitted this.
The social system is no better today.

In the village or town or city the story is the

same though it takes different hues according to the social environment.
all, but in fact a slave.
no identity of her own.

She is a Devi to

Society by and large does not allow her any independent existence,
This Opera tries to show the prevalent conditions—may be it will

be unpalatable to many. The Opera does not ‘claim to depict all facets of women’s problems.
may a few episodes. true to life. have been portrayed.

