Kissa Yeh Aurat iKa-Hawwa Se Hippie Tak
ACI‘ ONE
Part I
Prologue.

A Mandi scene 2000 years ago where young girls are bartered away.

A

modern Mandi where young men go to bargain for their brides for the highest dowry. r
Instant marriages take place—Birth of girl causes immense grief while the birth of a boy is
celebrated joyfully. From her very birth a girl faces great odds.
7 Part [I

I
Tara is born in a village. The 'parents think they are doomed. All the same Tara
grows रे up as a beautiful young belle with dreams and aspirations for her future life. The
village barber settles her marriage to Jaimangal whose father readily agrees as Tara’s father
had no son and his property would automatically be inherited by his daughters.
Tara is married. But before any of her dreams are fulﬁlled dark clouds descend all
round her. The interfering mother-in-law makes her life miserable. Tara is not allowed
any privacy with her husband. The prying eyes of the mother-in-law follow her inexorably even when they are alone. She becomes frigid. The taunts increase in volume and
intensity° She is barren. Even hershadow is shunned. Her own mother, even motherearth repudiates her. In desperation she goes to a math for salvation. 'I‘he mahant makes

advances towards her.

She runs. She visits the cremation ground where a Tantrik

ﬁgure exhorts her to stand naked with her hair down if she desires her wish of a son to be
fulﬁlled. Screaming she ﬂees from there to her house where she falls unconscious.
' .

A bright star thus sinks in the mire.

All because the world is a huge mandi where

everything is bought and sold-heart, mind and soul.
ACT '1' WO

The commentators take us to the city. Tara stands ﬁrst in her college. There is great

jubilation. Tara dreams of her future. The world is open before her.

She can clasp the

stars. She imagines herself in the role of an engineer, doctor or professor, She goes to a
discotheque with her friends. Her friend Bulbul conﬁdes in her that she is going to Europe
hitchhiking.
But very soon this so called mod girl agrees to her mother’s suggestion to
get married to a total stranger who has come from America. in search of a bride. His riches
dazzle her and her parents.

I~ara learns that her engagement is being ﬁxed without her consent. She resists vehee
mently the marriage being forced on her.

But it was a cry in the wilderness.

is enamoured of connections with a rich and powerful family.

Tara’s father

