r

a great 019190711111 ity t0 b

u the ,

k.

mama art mar'ketfr'om theground up’
HUGO WEIHE, former international director for Asian art at Ch ristie's, recently took over as CEO for Saffrona rt, one of the largest
auction houses for Indian art. He speaks to Manavi Kapur about where India stands compared to China's art market

lighting. Schoolchildren coming to
galleries to sketch and take to art,
Indian or otherwise, at such an early age is a great sign. The world is
embracing Indian art — be it sculptures, paintings or antiquities. The

w

How did thedecision tomove from
an international auctionhouse to an
Indian one come about?
This was a logical transition for me.
As director for Asian art for Christie’s,
I was subconsciously working
towards India. This is a great oppOrtunity to build the Indian art market
up from the ground and take the
great work of curators and collectors
forward. Minal and Dinesh Vazirani

name and yet ﬁnds takers because
of its aesthetic. The next big step
would be to open up private collections and display those ‘beautiful
Indian antiquities. This is a huge task ,
that requires persistent sourcing and
cataloguing. But once Indian antiq‘ uities ﬁnd the right catalyst here, the
Indian art market has great potential to compete on an international stage.

(of Saffronart) have put in a great

amount ofeffort into bringing differ—
ent forms ofIndian art together and
taking this work forward I
with them is exciting.
Which aspect ofthe
Indian art market
holds the most
promise inyour
opinion?
The online space has
interesting consequences for the art
market here. A lot
of ३
.Wst-ewge .q त्मा

2016 exhibition at the British
Museum is a sign" of that. It is time
India, too, embraced and reconnected with its history and I am conﬁdent that things will pick up.

When compared to theChinese
art market, where does India

Head
to

' “add?
.
Whlle the Indian art market

Is there a particular genre of _
Indian artthat has remained
H ead
matured quite quickly in the
untapped? Whatcan be done
last 15 years, China'has years
to change that?
of concentrated efforts
That would deﬁnitely have A sense of pride behind preserving its art
to be the antiquities and and awareness
and heritage. Chinese
miniature paintings. The in ii: own
emperors through the ages
legal framework in India heritage needs
have supported, art in a big
prevents them from travel— to be developed way. The government was
ling out ofthe country. This in India
quick to buyinto its own art

has kept the antiquities

.

/ and bring it back to its oWn

under wraps. Contemporary Indian
art has to prove itselfand present itself,
मरा1श्व1७औस९प७1९९41=1यु1१रा1०

[.11.1.1115128

land. This sense of pride and awareness needs to be developed in India.
The Chinese governments also built
~

poster", tuba!" and” ३ air adyhave histo'ryontheirside. This

artist villages to promote contempo-

contemporary art is

rary art. This was seen in the case of

finding

buyers

is India’s moment in the art world.
Very few countries can claim the richness ofculture andheritage thatIndia
can. The Americans had to procure
European art and buy their way into
culture. India already has a 5,000year—old history with as much art and
culture to be proud of.
,

Guggenheim, too, Where an entire

online, especially
city was revived on the shoulders of
since most of these
artistic energy. With events like the
pieces are priced affordKochi Biennale, I’m hoping similar
३ ably. For example,
things happen in India. Such events
vSaffronart’s online
can have many circumstantial benebrand, Storthd, has
fits in terms of local tourism and
broken new ground
The change is already coming economy. We need more people like
in promoting popular
about; Ydu can see that at the Prince
Homi Bhabha, the Sarabhais and the
art and taking it to
of Wales Museum in Mumbai ——— a
’I‘atas, whocan open up theirprivate
buyers of all kinds. ' passionate director with 'the right . art cbllectiOns and be pioneers inproSometimes, a lot of kind of awareness can make all the
moting Indian art. We are Currently
the tribal art 'comes difference. A lot ofthought has been . nowhere in terms ofprices and there
without the artist’s
put into the right kind ofdisplay and is great potential for an upside.

