.. . . . _ I.

स्थित्साहुँख्याध्याध्याण्ड
I

'Ifhérﬁtre

ष

"है "3 .-…3 मृ

7८1'1८ट्वें116झे१च्चा6

SYNOPSIS

Act I : Gods and Men
It is ten years since the fall of Troy, and all the surviving

heroes have turned home, except one...
The gods assemble to discuss the plight of Odysseus, imprisoned
in the island of the nymph Calypso, who is in love with him. A thene,
Goddess of War, sympathises and wants to help him. Poseidon hates him
and is determined that he shall never return home. Zeus, Father of Gods
and men, decides to intervene. Odysseus’ house in Ithaca has been invaded

by greedy suitors competing to marry his wife Penelope, who has promised
to choose one of them when she has finished weaving a shroud; at night
she unpicks the work she has done, hoping to put off her decision. His
son, Telemachus is visited by Athene, disguised as a sea captain; she tells
him hisfather is alive and advises him to go and searchfor him Penelope 's
ruse is betrayed by Melantho, an unfaithful servant, and the suitors
demand turn to threats.
Zeus sends Hermes, the messenger, to break Calypso 's spell over
Odysseus who then sails away with a boat provide by the Gods. Poseidon,
enraged at the heroes escape, blows up a storm which casts him onto the
island of Phallic.
Meanwhile the suitors, discovering that Telemachus has gone in
search of hisfather plot an ambush and kill him on his return. Penelope
distraught at the news of Telemachus ’ departure, is comforted by Athene,
disguised as her sister.
Sleeping naked and exhausted on the beach, Odysseus is
discovered by the Phaecian princess Nausicaa, who invites him to the
palace of her father king Alcinous, where a feast is held on his honour.
Act 2 : The Adventures

हुं के

9
च९३
:०८

At thefeast, Odysseus tells the story of h is voyagefrom Troy and
his many adventures : the battle with the Cicones, his landing on the shore
in the country of the Lotus Eaters, his blinding of the one-eyed cannibal
giant Polyphemus, son of Poseidon, his conquest and seduction of the
witch Circe, his visit to Hades, his landfall on the island of the Sun God
andﬁnally his arrival on Calypso ’s island where he has been marooned
for the last seven years.
Alcinous loads Odysseus with presents and sends him at home.
Poseidon, furious at the Phaecians, appeals to Zeus, who advises him to
teach them a lesson, and to leave Odysseus alone to work out his own

destiny.

Act 3 .' Man of Wrath
On his arrival on Ithaca, Odysseus is met by A thene, who warns
him of the suitors, disguises him as an old beggar and sends him to the
hut of his former swineherd Eumaeus, who does not recognises him.
Telemachus avoids the suitors ambush with A thene help and is reunited
with his father in Eumaeus' hut. The next day, Telemachus goes to the

palace. Seeing he has become a man, Penelope decides to honour the
command given to her by Odysseus before he left for Troy, announces
that she will choose an husband from among the suitors the following
day.

Odysseus arrives at the palace still in disguise, and is attacked
and insulted. He speaks with Penelope who does not recognise him and
reveals himself to his old nurse Eurycleia, and to Eumaeus. That night
they remove the suitors weapons from the hall.
The next day, Penelope, prompted by a dream sent to her by
A thene, tells the suitors that whoever can string and/ire Odysseus ' bow
will be her husband. The suitors failed to string the bow, Odysseus
succeeds, and he and Telemachus slaughter the suitors and the
unfaithful servants. Odysseus reveals himself to Penelope and the Gods
look on their reunion...

a

