ख्यिध्दष्णहुंछंछ्येध्याध्याखु

Expositions

-

Expositions

Haunted by the destiny of the man actor of his century, A ndré Malrau
x
expressed his obsession in his writings, in his personal story and in his intensefer
vour
for personalities like that of Charles de Gaulle.
But Malraux is also a man who paces the planet. He has been all over
during his maiden voyages as an adventurer (I930, he leftfor Gandhara, in Indi
a
where his passion for Greek-Buddhist sculptures was born), and then as a diplom
at
during his travels that made him meet the greatest personalities of the period.
Malraux is the Minister in charge of cultural affairs since I 959 when he
undertakes the voyage that his doctors advise him to do .- his two sons killed themselv
es
on the road in 1962. The following year, a murder attempt of the OAS targeted on
him cost the eyesight to a young girl. . . . Well experienced, he embarked on a journe
y
I towards the Orient asked by de Gaulle to be his messenger.
India fascinated him, he developed a deep friendship with Jawaharlal
Nehru (who he had already met in France) and Raja Rao. He will go back ma
ny
times, always more captivated, will meet Indira Gandhi... Story of a man seduce
d by
India.

I

“Le temple de Madura

est beaucoup plus grand qu’une
cathédrale.
Ces
tours
au
flamboiement bleu sur le ciel bleu
dominent la ville, surgissent au
milieu des ruelles; son immensité
est présente comme celle de la mer
dans les rues des ports. II semble
que la piété paysanne ait dressé des
tours de Babel recouvertes d’une
végétation de dieux comme elle a
dressé les tours de Chartres. Des
l’entrée de cette Angkor barbare,

un brahmane au torse nu m’avait
marqué le front de poudre carmin,
et l’humidité tiede avait commence,

.

'

AndréMalra'uxetun 5’0th
'

dans un narthex comble d’un écroulement de bouquets semb
lable

:1 celui des ﬂeuristes de nos cimetieres le jour des morts.”
“The temple of Madura is much bigger than a cathedral.
Its
towers of a dazzling blue against the blue sky dominate the to
wn, looming
up at every turning in the narrow streets; its immensity is pr
esent like that
of the sea in the streets ofport town. It is as though peasan
t piety had
raised these towers ofBabel covered with a vegetation ofgods
as it raised
the towers of Chartres. As I entered this barbaric Angkor
, a Brahman,
naked to the waist, had marked myforehead with crimson
powder and the
warm humidity had begun, in a narthex piled with avala
nches ofbouquets
like those ofthe ﬂorists in our ceremonies on All Souls ’D
ay:. . ”

A ntimémoires, A ndré Malraux
I
Conf'érence pour l’inauguration par Jean Marie Lafont,
chercheurhistorien au CSH (Centre de Sciences Humaines) “Gandha
ra Art : the French
Connection». Le 14 Fe’vrier 1997 2‘: 18h., Auditorium
de I’AFD. Conference

for the inauguration ofthe André Malraux exhibition by
Jean-Marie Lafont,
searcher-historian at CSH .‘ “Gandhara Art : the French
Connection The
14/02/97 at 6. 00 p. m. AFD Auditorium.

I

Une visite guide’e de l’exposition Malraux est prévue tous
les jours

sauf le dimanche de 10 है 17 heures sur rendez-vo
us : contacter I’Alliance

Francaise de Delhi au 644 01 28.
Guided visit everyday except Sundaysfrom 10. 00 a m. to
5. 00 p. m. , contact
Alliance Francoise de Delhi, tel .' 644 01 28.

I

Projection of the movie “Espoir” of André Malraux fr
om the 17/

02/97 to the 19/02/97, at the Auditorium of the Cu
ltural Service of the French

Embassy at 7.00 p.m.

