Yakshagana
Today and for Us
Scholars hold that most sophisticated folk-theatre traditions extant in India
today have their origins in the Bhagavatha or Bhakti movement which
began to gather form around the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
As in other such traditions, in Yakshagana too the prasangas or
performance episodes are based mainly on stories drawn from the
Mahabharata, Ramayana and the Bhagavatha. Today, Yakshagana is
understood to have been a vehicle for the propagation of the Bhagavatha
Dharma through its synthesis of entertainment and philosophical Bhakti
education. Researchers say that varieties of Yakshagana became widely
prevalent all over the Kannada (and perhaps even the Telugu) - speaking
regions from the fifteenth century onwards.

Today, we have the Moodalapaya Yakshagana (Eastern Yakshagana) in
South-Eastern Karnataka and the Doddata and Sannata tradition in
Northern Karnataka. In the two coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and
Uttara Kannada what prevails is the Paduvalapaya Yakshagana (Western
Yakshagana) which is further divided into the Tenku and the Badagu
traditions (the Southern and the Northern traditions), respectively. The

cognoscenti say that there is also a Badagubadagu (or far Northern)
tradition prevalent in the Uttara Kannada district. I’aduvalapaya

Yakshagana is performed and seen in parts of Shivarnogga and
Chickmagalur districts adjoining the two coastal districts, especially
Tirthahalli and Sagara taluks. As is evident, it is this Paduvalapaya
tradition that the students of the NSD have acquainted themselves with.

Also today, in Karnataka when one uses the term ’Yakshagana’ without any
prefix or without qualifications, one is invariably referring to coastal or
Paduvalapaya Yakshagana such is its dominant image as the Yakshagana
tradition. This is so because, of the various Kannada folk-theatre traditions

extant today it is this tradition which is most alive. There are no less than 30
professional Yakshagana companies performing regularly every year from
October to May, that is, in the post-monsoon season. These companies,
called Vrithi Melas, perform inside tents and in recent decades have been
getting new prasangas that are not based on the puranas but that are
entirely ’fictional’ (and therefore called Samajika prasangas) specially
written for themselves and playing them besides also playing the
traditional pouranika prasangas.
There are other troupes known as the Bayalata Melas which perform in the
open—air and generally stick to the pouranika prasangas. Then, there is also
the fascinating Talamaddali tradition of performance. A Talarnaddali
performance is given by a very few erudite and articulate Yakshagana
artistes who just sit in everyday dress and perform a ’sitting’ Yakshagana.
Such performances generally take place during the rainy season when there

