can be no outdoor, and thus full-fledged, Yakshaganas. Prominence is here
given to philosophical discourse and witty verbal sparring amongst the
performers. This is a theatre of pure and exhilarating discursiveness where
one can watch and listen to great debates between say Duryodhana and
Krishna, or Draupadi and Dharmaraja, or Rama and Vali.

Besides the professional Yakshagana and Talamaddali troupes there are an
innumerable amateur and semi-professional troupes that perform on and
off all over the traditional Yakshagana country.

l

One remarkable feature of Yakshagana is that unlike other folk-theatre
traditions (Kannada and otherwise) it is a vibrant and effective blend of the
Lokadharuni and the Natyadharuni kinds of acting where both kinds of
acting are present in equal measure. While, for instance, Kathakali and
Kuchipudi are studiously stylized and codified and do not have the actor
himself speaking, and the Iatra and the Tamasha place more stress on the
Lokadharuni to the neglect of the Natyadharuni (in terms of formalised
speech and gesture) Yakshagana is a surprisingly successful and consistent
blend of all these aspects of both the acting dharmas. This probably is the
reason why it has been able to retain much of its ’classical’ tradition, so to
speak, to this day while also being artistically contemporary in the highest
sense as well as commercially viable. This could also be the reason why
studying Yakshagana may be extremely rewarding for modern theatre
people.

Jaimini and His Bharata
The story of Chandrahasa is to be found in the Iaimz'm' Bharata whose
authorship is ascribed to the rishi and poet Jaimini. It is said that Jaimini
was one of the four chief disciples of the great Vyasa. The authorship of the
Mahabharata as we know it today is ascribed to Vyasa. And of the Iaimirzi
Bharata, only the Ashwamedikaparva is extant today. The poet
Lakshmeesha’s Iaimirzi Bharata is a retelling in Kannada of this work.
Jaimini is also held to be the first philosopher of the Poorva-Mimamsa
darshana and the author of the Mimamsa Sutras. Poorvamimamsa is based
on the part of the Vedas that comes after the Samhitas. This post-Samhita
part of the Vedas is comprised of the Brahmanas. The Brahmanas are
followed by the Aranyakas and the Upanishads. This post-Brahmana part is
known as the Vedanta. The Uttaramimamsa darshana deals with the
abstract and philosophical Vedanta whereas the Poorvamimamsa deals
with the Brahmanas.
The Brahmanas deal exclusively with Vedic rituals and their implications
and are thus said to constitute the Karmakanda part of the Vedas. The
Poorvamimamsa darshana asserts the primary of the Vedas over
everything else. It says that the Vedas are deathless. It gives such preeminence to the Vedas that it does not acknowledge, as other darshanas do,

even the Supreme Brahman as the cause of the Vedas. For the
poorvarnimarnsaka the Vedas are the original fountainhead of everything

