in the universe. The Poorvamimamsa, therefore, stresses the importance of
the practice and scrupulous observance of Vedic rituals if Man is to ascend

Lakshmeesha and his Bharata

to heaven. Thus, in contrast to the Upanishads and the Uttaramimarnsa, the

It is generally accepted now that Lakshmeesha was born sometime in the
first half of 16th century AD. and that he belonged to and lived in the
village of Devanuru in Kadur taluk of the district of Chickamagalur.

I’oorvamimamsa ignores concept of ’Moksha’ or Ultimate Liberation and
embraces the concept of Swargaprapti or the attainment of heaven.
Similarly, in pursuance of the same contrast, it gives precedence to the
Karmamarga over the Inanamarga.
It is, then, easy to see why tradition holds that the Jaimini who first

enunciated the philosophy of the Poorvamimamsa was also the Jaimini
who wrote a Mahabharata whose Ashwamedhika parva alone has come
down to us under the name of Jaimim' Bharata. Both the Jaiminis gave
importance not to the Jnanamarga, not to knowledge but to, the philosophy

of surrender. The Poorvamimamsa upholds surrender to and through
rituals as a way to empowerment while the Iaimz'm' Bharata upholds
submission to the Godhead through Bhakti, and thereby promises
salvations .

He was probably a Vaishnavaite and his version, in Kannada, of the Iaimini

Bhamta is steeped in his philosophy of the Bhagavatha darrna and the
Bhaktimarga. Lakshmeesha’s ’Blzarata’ is written in the Vardhaka Shatpadi
(a popular six line stanza format) and his verse is reputed for its word—
music and its sonorous quality. He has in fact, been called Nadalola
Lakshmeesha by DR. Bandre, the great Kannada poet of our century.
Lakshmeesha’s capacity for story-telling in verse is indeed superb and his
characterisation of the protagonists of the various stories and epics is done
skilfully and feelingly so as to exemplify and propagate the phiIOSOphy of
Haribhakti .
Lakshmeesha is at his best when narrating the story of Chandrahasa and
Shri K.V. Puttappa’s play is based on Lakshmeesha’s telling of the story so
much so that Shri Puttappa has reproduced entire passages straight form
Lakshmeesha’s poetic epic.

