Baba
Babu Kodi Venketraman Karanth is known as Baba in his circle, We, too,

address him as Baba, as we thought he is just a Baba for us. We were totally
20, the second year students of the National School of Drama. We were the

participants of a workshop demonstration on the different aspects of
Yakshagana under this versatile all-rounder. His experience and expertise

in general and India’s folk-theatre in particular, is really creditable.
When we look at Baba’s yester-years, we know they were full of ups and
downs, gains and losses, happiness and sorrow. But today Karanthji is
above all these. A music director par excellence, his melodious sounds and

tunes for the theatre and films, are an exhilarating experience. His music is
fresh—free from the routine theatre music of yesterday. As a director of
theatre and films he has established himself as a genius. A children’s
playwright, set-designer and folk-lorist rolled into one; Karanthji is a
personality with much histrionic talent.

In the development of theatre and theatrical centres, his contribution has
been significant. He became the Director of the N.S.D., then of Bharat
Bhavan in Bhopal and today of Rangayana of Mysore. He sincerely works
towards continuity of theatre activities. He wants actors, stage-workers and
plays to grow. He wants theatre to grow in its multifarious dimensions.
Painters, architects, sculptors, masons, builders, potters and carpenters; all

have places in theatre, according to him. To him, total theatre is the
blending of all these art forms. Years ago he studied drama in the National
School of Drama after obtaining his M .A. Degree in Hindi from Banaras
Hindu University The experience he gained from the theatre companies as
a small boy shook him up and prompted him to study drama more. He also
spent sometime in Calcutta and watched plays ardently at a time when
theatre was terribly active and meaningful.
Politically and socially, he was always active and he once became an R.S.S.

activist and, much before that, a member of the Communist Party. During
his political career, two people who greatly aided and influenced him were

"The purpose of art and culture is the development of society. Art
stimulates political action, economic situations and creative urgency. Art

Omkar Nath Thakur (music) and Hazari Prasad Dvivedi (Literature). His

may be considered elitist but, because of this it sees life in a different way

joined the Hindi Visharadha College. He penned, directed and acted in
Hindi plays there. He was also a Hindi teacher in Bangalore before
obtaining his MA. Degree from Banarase Hindu University. Recounting his

and inspires protest. To protest you also require a strong culture. Creativity
is the basis of life. It is an extension of one a connection and communication
with others. It is a means for reaching out”, Karanthji once stated. This

statement reﬂects his philosophy of life.

association with G.V. Iyer landed him in the Hindi theatre world when he

acting career in drama companies he said, ”In Krishna Leela there were five

different Krishnas. I would play the one who killed Kamsa and,

