A Tour to Remember

Southern schools of Yakshagana, gave us new insight to the subject.
Naturally, we were very curious to witness Yakshagana in its many

(A report on the Karnataka workshop)

splendoured vitality and variety.

We, the twenty students of the second year of the National School of Drama
started our theatre journey to the South on 8th May 1993. It was a pleasant
surprise to escape from the scorching heat of Delhi to icy Mysore. A crosssection of India’s cultural ethos, the village belle from the east, the mighty
Haryanvi, the intelligent central Indian, proud Marathi and the sensible
South Indian; all packed in the Karnataka Express. We were thrilled to
reach the land of Tipu Sultan, lush-green Udipi and the lofty hills of Ooty.

Gururaj Marapalli with two percussionists on ’Chenda’ and ’Maddhala’
gave us the orchestral support and the classical flair for the entire training.
Karanthji’s evening classes had a special impact, due to his applied
musicality and practical dramaturgy, It is no exaggeration to say that not
only were our bodies ﬂexible, but so were our minds conditioned to
Yakshagana. From the ’Na Dhin Dhin Dhin Na’ atmosphere of Ran gayana
we were driven to the tranquil tracks of Ooty hills where we saw the

Commencing on the 11th morning of May, our forty-day workshop was
divided into three different parts. The first phase contained the
familiarization of Yakshagana foot-steps and body movements, the useful
theory classes on the various aspects of Yakshagana by Karanthji, recitation
of Yakshagana lyrics, practicing of rare rhythmic patterns of Yakshagana, as
well as the composition of ensemble scenes, war preparations, bathing
sequences of noble ladies etc. It would be wrong on our part to say that we
have fully learnt this form. We were enriched with the rich tradition and

heavenly splendours of the hills and modern comforts in abundance.

heritage that Yakshagana presented to us. What a great thing! Nothing

Apart from these classes, demonstrations and jaunts, we also saw the world

theoretical, nothing bookish. A direct encounter with an aesthetic ethos and

famous Brindavan Gardens with its luxuriant greenery and dancing

theoretical experience. But for the rich classes of Karanthji, we should have

fountains. 'Ihe palatial royal monuments and temples are still fresh in our
minds. We theatre students have gained much from the folk museum
which has a rich collection of folk costumes, jewelleries, properties and

been mere bookish theoreticians. The way he explained the rare aspects and

peculiar presentational methods to us particularly the Northern and

Thanks, once again, to Karanthji, we trecked 20 KM to and fro to the house
of V.M. Sholapurkar, where we saw poetry in wood. Here pieces of wood
are sliced and veneered, maintaining their characteristic richness of colours,

patterns and textures to create an enchanting experience. Here teak, rose,
sandal, mahogany and other varieties of wood pieces and slices were
turned into pictures inspired by their visible uniquences and aesthetic
contexts.

