potteries. The inlaid works and carvings of different sequences of
Yakshagana on a chariot, placed there, was something which still enthrals
our minds. This chariot not only feasted our eyes but stimulated our
creativity prompting us to design new costumes and to make theatre sets
and properties of a different genre.

The crown of the programme package was the second phase, where we

the importance of applying energy and force in a performer. We were
wonder struck on seeing the performer always at ease, despite the fact that
his performance continued for the entire night. He was neither tired nor
exhausted, but always dancing jumping, speaking and singing to the fierce
beatings of "Chenda’ and ’Maddhala’. However, the modern, commercial
gimmicks, (such as in ’Surpanaka Anka’ when the male characters

were taken to Udupi, the land of temples and temple-theatres. Being the
seat of Yakshagana, a thousand ’roopa-bhavas’ come to our mind; the
vibrant Yakshagana demonstrations, the celestial ’bhootas’ of Arnbalapadi
temple, the soothing Malpe beach and the face to face communication with

appeared on the stage, they played band music and burst crackers) we felt,

the grand old-man of Kannada culture, Dr. Shivarama Karanth. It was quite

The demonstration on 25th morning, started with ’Poorva Ranga’, where
we saw the ’Shtree Veshas’ (women characters) in their full bloom followed

an experience to view the variety of Vijayanath Shenoy’s exhibits associated
with the age old traditional house/museum.
The night at Suratkal on 24th May still reverberates in Our hearts with the

went against the spirit, authenticity and pristine purity of Yakshagana.
(When we say this, we do not undermine the enthusiastic innocence of

these village folk.)

with video sessions at Regional Resource Centre daily to show us different
folk and tribal forms such as ’Nagamandalas’, ’Bhootas’ etc. The nightly

special modem brand music blended with the traditional Yakshagana of

performances of Yakshagana was a daily affair with its various aspects and

Southern school (Thenku Thettu). Here the involvement was complete in all
respects. In fact we were elated when we were taken to the midst of a

sequences such as ’Lava Kusha’, ’Lanka Dahana’, ’Vidushakas’, ’Taal
Muddhala’ ’Oddoolaga’ (Sabha Pravesha), ’Kirath Pade’ (Hunters’

festivity where we saw not only Yakshagana but also the lavish hospitality

sequences), ’Dushasana Vadha’ and ’Banneda Vesha’. ’Lava Kusha’ episode

and affection of the innocent rural folk. Clad in their colourful costumes,

was performed exclusively by boys and girls of different age groups. To
them Yakshagana is not an art, a way of life, something inborn, a tradition
or a Culture. The irnprovizational quality, the imaginative faculty and the

these villagers gave us a colourful welcome with a ’rosy’ gesture. Having
been trained in studio classes at the NSD to use vitality and vigour with a
View to making us more ﬂexible physically and mentally, and after viewing
the Thenku Thettu (Southern style) of Yakshagana, we were convinced of

intelligent approach of these small children are really praiseworthy. We felt
small before them, how easily they became an integral part of this rich

