tradition where as it was a Herculian task for the nationally acclaimed

theatre students of the NSD. The sequence where in the Vidushkas appear
was hilarious and entertaining. Each Vidushaka had a separate identity
through his different dialect of either Malayalam, Telugu or Kannada
ﬂavoured dialogues. Comedy is created in their body movements, glances,
gestures and dialogues. It was a blending of verbal renderings and
percussion beats. It is to be noted here that since there is no written text, as

we see' in our epics and mythology, the extempore dialogues and recitation
had a contemporary relevance. Social customs, political corruptions and
selfishness of human beings etc., were ridiculed by the performers through

their verbal improvizations.
‘Kirath Pade’ a musical fare where youngsters and boys mingled together
in the performance, also flexible they could jump out of the classical
specifications of such performing arts like Kathakali and Yakshagana. Even
break-dances were brought in by them. It was a wonder, we thought for a

while, whether that much of freedom can be given to them in
improvization. It was a fitting finale with ’Dushashana Vadha’ as the last
performance. It was a performance to remember for life. Age is no barrier
on the stage as the eightly year old actor showed us. The force, the energy

and the vitality of an actor were all manifested in the human form when we
saw these great masters performing before the oil torches. We never thought

an eighty year old performer could transfer us to his magical world.

We respectfully remember the living legend of Karnataka, Dr. K. Shivarama
Karanth. Our date with him was very much rewarding and refreshing. This

literary giant and the reviver of Yakshagana was to us a grandpa. He
explained about his mission of reviving this art form and the reforms he
brought about in the audio-visual aspect of Yakshagana. It was he who

pioneered the editing of the monotonous dialogues and replaced them with
’Bhavabhinaya’. It was he who brought about symbolic colours to the
costumes in accordance with the characteristics of the characters, discarding
the meaningless colours. It was he who brought about new designs of
headgears and certain costumes which are at once attractive and
impressive. These reforms brought about by him proved to be a trend setter
in the presentational style of Yakshagana throughout the world.
The third stage of the workshop was from lst June to 14th June, devoted

entirely for the production of ’Chandrahasa’ demonstration. We were
under the impression that the workshop under Karanthji was to produce

this play systematically. This was not evident from the very beginning of
the workshop itself and therefore tensions, frustrations and mis-

understandings were mounting up amongst us. This reached a climax in
the third stage. This was cooled down when Karanthji explained that
’Chandrahasa’ demonstration in the traditional style of Yakshagana
mingled with our study in NSD and the regional characteristics of each
individual participant would mould us to do any play, particularly

