‘Pweude
On behalf of the Children’s Little

6th Annual Festival.

Theatre I welcome you all to the

It was as an experimental measure? that the Children’s

Little Theatre made its debut before the public with a small show
in Calcutta
in 1952. Since then it has progressed from year to year and today
we are

proud to say that the children and their {parents have learnt to love and to
look forward to the Annual shows organized by the Children’s Little Theatre
.
The Delhi Branch of the Children’s Little Theatre organized its ﬁrst
Festival in 1954. Since then, we in Delhi have been running our Training

Centre regularly and putting up before the public of Delhi at our Annual
Festival

the children’s ballets and other short items produced at our own
training centre at Delhi.
In 1959, the Delhi Branch of the C. L. T. organized a special show for

the entertainment of the delegates of the 17th International Scout Conference.
About two hundred t0p scout leaders from 65 member countries
of the
mance

International Scout organization came to witness the perfor
of by the children.
Special messages, appreciating the perfor-

mance were sent by many scout leaders who included, to mention only a
few, Lord Rowallan, the Chief Scout of the United Kingdom, General D. C.
Spry, World Director, International Scout Bureau and Shri N. M. Khan
National Commissioner, Pakistan.
These messages are printed elsewhere
in this number.
I

In this connection, it may be pertinent to emphasize one aspect of

the aims and objects of the Children’s Little Theatre.

The Training Centre

of the Theatre is not intended to be used as dancing or music classes of the
usual type. It is essentially an experimental art-research centre intended for
the production of material which can be utilised in other institutions.
The Children’s Little Theatre is, in this sense, basically a cultural workshop
where the workers expect to train the minds, the senses and the sensibilities
of the children in furtherance of art education.

The main draw back of the Theatre is the want of a Children’s Open
air theatre proscenium where children from families of all income groups
can come and enjoy the performance at a nominal price.

It has been increa-

singly difﬁcult for the C. L. T. to run the Training Centre and to put up the
annual Festival.

Hence inspite of our best efforts we have not been able

to reduce the price of children’s tickets for our shows to a lower ﬁgure, say
25 nP in order to make the festival an occasion for all children. With the

