of make-believe. Who could be
Another aspect of ballet is the creation
children ? Anyone who has ever
more at home in the world of fantasy, than
how rich and limitless their imagiwatched children at play will remember
to play at being at the same time
nation is. A child ﬁnds it perfectly natural
y doll, and perhaps even a butthe mother and the maid and the naughty bab
terﬂy or an aeroplane.

erent roles,
It is this gift of children to live in diff

object, that makes them accept
to, personify things, to infuse life into any
In their world the clouds come
and understand almost any role to be played.
uage and trees walk.
down from the sky, animals speak in human lang
dinating movement with
Another essential element of the ballet is co-or

music.

on what
How the children respond to the music depends very much

must be suggestive and the
type of music we are offering them. The music
the basis of the ballet.
rhythm clear. In western countries the mUSic is
, and to try and underFirst of all, the children are asked to listen to the music
what the music has
stand the tale the music tells. Once it is found out
s are given shape and
suggested to them the story is built up, the movement
tant that the story of the
the choreography is composed. It is very impor

to be such as the
ballet should be within their comprehension. The theme has
to listen to the
children can {understand and imagine. The children have
way round,
music and they must be carried by it, and must not be the other
mpaniment.
ﬁrst having the dances ready and their arranging the musical acco
Music has to be there from the ﬁrst reahearsal to the last.
elves
A children’s ballet is suCcessfull only when the little ballerinas thems
enjoy dancing every bit of it.

of the
The natural desire of the children to be on the move is one
to
begun
have
greatest gifts for their teachers, but it is only recently that we
understand how to use it, in terms of our increased knowledge of what children
are like and what they need at different stages.

