CHILD

ACTIVITIES

By
Shaibya Dutt
From the very begining of the life of a child its actions and thoughts
should b3 guided into proper channels. This should never be done in art
obvious manner, because the child is apt to be rebellious. One must explain
why certain things should

be done in a certain manner and appealto his

ﬁner sense.

Home is the ﬁrst place where the activities of a child should be organised
and made interesting. Games are rather important in the life of children
because they help to train their sense of touch and teach them how to co-

ordinate it with their power of seeing.

The parent should devote a lot of

time in bringing up their children by creating proper atmosphere and giving
proper guidence for grasping knowledge with the help of various kinds of
toys, Games and works, like gardening, housework, carpentry, drawing, mode-

lling and other handicrafts.

For example let us take the building block, just

by piling them one over the other it helps the child to have steady hands

and develope the sense of symmetry and also encourage the creative

urge in

him.

The child must be encouraged to do things that he would like to do of.
his own free will and the parents should help him in maintaining the required
atmosphere and provide facilities for his beneﬁt and progress.

३

when the i
It is a great problem for the working mothers, . specially
order to meet such
child is too small to be sent to Kinder-garten School. In
where the
conditions, there should be creches and well trained nurse--teachers,
habits
child will have his ﬁrst lessons in cleanliness discipline and regular
the parent.
A child is inquisitive and1s always asking questionswhich
and truthfully.
should listen with patience and try to answer them correctly
'
It this modern world the Child’ s mind starts thinking of politics because

and other
they hear constantly from their elders various pOIitical situations
international topics.

Thus for development of civic sense, political conscious-

have
ness and understanding various forms ( f Governments, the children can
tic form,
the so called Republic Schools—Schools which are run in democra

where each child18 given responsiblity in the running of the School.

In this

citizens and
way from a very early stage of life, the children learn to be good

the
good citizens are invaluable in building up of a Nation and it is the duty of
parents to help the children in all Spheres of their activities and help them to
become good and reliable citizens

