IMPORTANCE OF
ENT OF ARTS
MOVEMENT IN THE DEVELOPM

By
Leila Da Costa
from the same source.
The creative urge expressed in all the arts comes
art is somewhat different,
Although the way it is expressed in each particular
on beginning is moveall the arts have a common beginning. That comm
l. Not movement for
ment—movement which is primitive and fundamenta
; not movement which
expressing emotion or ideas, which becomes Dance
is Drama; not movement
makes us feel we want to say something, which
al Training; but movefor developing bodily strength or skills, which is physic
arts.
ment for movement’s sake, the starting part of all the
relaIntroduction of children to the arts helps in developing better
the at tist ic
tionships when they are engaged in expressing themselves through
the making of
media. Every young child becomes completely absorbed in
in colour
about
mud pies and the same absorption is apparent when he plays
with the same
or scribble-s with a stick in sand. The same creative desire
absorption is found when a young child sways on his feet with an inner movement to his

own particular rhythmical musical theme, or when he sings

noisily or quietly to himself. The child shulJ be free to express himself
through various artistic media provided in school or other organisation.
For a child to be free, the ﬁrst essential is that he should move easilv. To
achieve this, children should be introduced to colour, paper, pencils: clay,

to mirnes and massed movement ( the channel of dramatic feelings ) and to
music in a happy, informal and contented setting.

Not only do these arts

have an inherent interest for most children but they also develop through
each art—interest, concentration and imagination. Interest and imagination
bring about a degree of concentration which develop self-discipline ( for
discipline is the outcone of the child’s absorption in his experience and not

a thing imposed by the teachers ) and a freedom from fear and these quz‘ li l ies
enliven the contact between the child and the world.
Tails told in rhythmic movement and mine can be the starting point
of dramatic work.

At ﬁrst children will fmi the melves unable to express

themselves

in

spontaneous

bodily

movemeits until their

imagination is

developed.

Also there is a certain embarrassment against which teachers have

to struggle... . ..the embarrassment of the body. In 1| e ﬁrst stage of teaching
movement—the natural movements of walking, running, skipping. jumping and

