Max Mueller Bhavan, New Delhi, a branch of the Goethe Institute, Munich
engaged in the promotion of international cultural cooperation, has been taking
keen interest in promotion of cultural activities in Delhi; particularly in Indian
dance, music and dramatics. The assistance and guidance given by the Max Mueller

Bhavan to the Brechtian Mirror has facilitated in the production of ‘Arturo Ui’.

The Performers

BRECHTIAN MIRROR members are humble admirers of Brecht—his plays, theatrical
philosophy and style. Under the direction of Amitav Das Gupta,- in. 1976 the group
produced THE LIFE OF GALILEO GALELEI in Hindustani, and in 1979 THE
RESISTIBLE RISE OF ARTURO UI, also in Hindustani. In this production of
Arturo Ui, the group has added a new dimension by introducing machines in the
form of cranes and excavators which interact closely with the characters in the play.
This production has also made use of slide projection and other new experimental
techniques which are part of Brechtian theatre.

Brechtian Mirror is known for its innovative use of space. The group was the ﬁrst
to use the godown of Sri Ram Centre (better known today as basement theatre), and
initiated the use of Lalit Kala Akademi Guest House lawns for theatrical performances.

The Play
THE RESISTIBLE RISE OF ARTURO UI was written by Brecht in Finland in
1941. This is a savage and witty parable about the rise of Hitler—recast by Brecht in
terms of a small time Chicago gangsters takeover of the city’s green grocery trade.
Ui (Hitler), a gang leader, sells ‘protection’ to Cicero’s vegetable merchants and
blackmails the Mayor Dogsborough (Hindenburg). The resulting testament from
Dogsborough, naming Ui as his successor, causes friction among the gangsters. But
Ui, undaunted, paves the way to power by having those who challenge him—the
ﬁnancial director Bowl, the nobleman and politician Dulf'eet, murdered; and later
eliminates his right hand man Roma (Rohm).
In this play Brecht exposes the role of the industrialists and the petty bourgeois in
the building up of the fascism and the rise of Hitlers. He exposes the blasphemical
situation in which political crimes take place. Brecht emphasised that the “great
political criminals must be thoroughly stripped bare and exposed to ridicule,” because
they are the instruments in perpetuation of great political crimes.

