Chronological events

1929-1932. Germany is hard hit by the world Economic Depression. At the height
of the crisis a number of Prussian Junkers try to obtain government loans, for a
long time without success. The big industrialists in the Ruhr dream of expansion.
By way of winning President Hindenburg’s sympathy for their cause, the Junkers
make him a present of a landed estate.
In the autumn of 1932, Adolf Hitler’s party and private army are threatened
with bankruptcy and disintegration. To save the situation Hitler tries desperately
to have himself appointed Chancellor, but for a long time Hindenburg refuses
to see him. ,
In January 1933 Hindenburg appoints Hitler ChanCellor in return for a. promise
to prevent the exposure of the Osthz'lfe (East Aid) scandal, in which Hindenburg
himself is implicated.
'
After coming to power legally, Hitler surprises his high patrons by extremely
violent measures, but keeps his promises.
The gang leader quickly transforms himself into a statesman. He is believed to
have taken lessons in declamation and bearing from one, Basil, a provincial actor.
February 1933, the Reichstag ﬁre. Hitler accuses his enemies of instigating the
ﬁre and gives the signal for the Night of the Long Knives.
The Supreme Court in Leipzig condemns an unemployed worker to death for
causing the ﬁre. The real incendiaries get off soot-free.
9, and 10. The impending death of the aged Hindenburg provokes bitter struggles in
the Nazi camp. The Junkers and industrialists demand Rohm’s removal. The
occupation of Austria is planned.
11.

On the night of June 30, 1934 Hitler overpowers his friend Rohm at an inn
where R6hm has been waiting for him. Up to the last moment Rohm thinks that
Hitler is coming to arrange for a joint strike against Hindenburg and Goring.

1 2.

Under compulsion the Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss agrees to stop
the attacks on Hitler that have been appearing in the Austrian press.

1 3.

Dollfuss is murdered at Hitler’s instigation, but Hitler goes on negotiating with
Austrian rightist circles.

1 4.

On March 11, 1938 Hitler marches into Austria. An election under the Nazi

terror results in a 98 ‘X, vote for Hitler.

