The Playwright

Bertold Brecht (1898-1956) was a 20th century German poet, playwright and theatre revolutionary
who expressed in his works the moral and political dilemmas of society and originated a style which
he used as a weapon to make his audience come to terms with these dilemmas. Inﬂuenced by the
symbolist poetry of Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud, the expressionism of playwrights such as
August Strindberg and Frank Wadekind, and the terminology of Marxism he arrived at a language
that was his alone; simple, precise and blunt—a language that made him one of the masters of
modern German.
His early works include Baal (1922), Drums in the Night (1923), A Man's a Man (1926). By 1926,
Brecht had begun a serious study of Marxism and began experimenting with new techniques of
experimental theatre (for example, the use ofslides). He produced plays with music in collaboration
with the composer Kurt Weill. These included: Three Penny Opera (1928), The Rise and Fall of the
wity of Mahagony (1929), The Exception and the Rule (1930).
From 1933 to 1948, Brecht was in exile, ﬁrst in Scandinavia, then in the Soviet Union, and after
1941 in the United States. Major works written during this period include : The Roundheads and the
Peakheads (1936), Private Life of the Masters Race (1936), Galileo (1939), Mother Courage (1939),
Women of Setzuan (1941), The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui (1941), and the Caucasian Chalk Circle
(1943).

In 1949, Brecht returned to Berlin and founded the ‘Berliner Ensemble’ which successfully put up
his best plays. His experiments, theories, plays and method had a strong effect on theatres round the
world and in particular in Germany.

His Dramatic Theory: Brecht uses the term ‘epic theatre’ to characterise his innovative dramatic
theory. His new type of drama is non-Aristotelian—that is, his aim is not to purge the audiences’
emotions but to awaken the spectators’ minds and communicate truth to them. In order to achieve
this end, drama must not hypnotise or entrance the audience but must continually remind them that
what they are watching is not real, but merely a representation, a vehicle for an idea or a fact.

Brecht uses the word ‘alienation’ to describe his method of rousing the audience to be receptive
to his dramatic intentions. His technique of ‘alienation’ eliminates conventional stage props—such
as hidden sources of light and sound, use of unseen mechanical devices, etc. Instead, he advocated
the use of new techniques such as the use of slides, charts and messages ﬂashed on the screen, to
prepare the audience to expect what was coming and made actors step out of their role to function
as commentators, and wove into his plays many carefully planned congruities. Finally, Brecht
requires that actors work in a new way: they must not identify with the dramatic characters but, on
the contrary, must demonstrate that they are playing a role. ‘Alienation’ is Brecht’s fundamental
dramatic device, and his parody is of course closely dependent on this technique.

