NATYA SAMAROH 1984
Seven -da_v National Theatre Festival

The nation-wide theatre festival “Natya Samaroh ’84 is an event which has

grown out 'of a process set into motion a year ago with the broad objective of
supporting and sustaining the creative efforts and energies of young enterprising
theatre workers with a view to helping the experimental segment of the theatre
activities. This was sought to be achieved by encouraging young directbrs to take
up experimental productions which seek inspiration in the traditional/folk theatre
forms, and thus through a process of artistic cross-fertilisation with modern
sensibilities help contemporary theatre assimilate the heritage of the past. There is

ample evidence to indicate the existence of such theatre activity involving serious
effort by many theatre workers, both established and not so established. But the
lack, however, of adequate resources to support such work ——being primarily of an
experimental nature involving high financial and artistic risks—makes it expedient

that this potential and fruitful activity should receive sustenance on न continuing
basis.
The present festival “Natya Samaroh '84 is the outcome of the Akademi’s

programme “Scheme for Assistance to Young Theatre Workers." The
programme is operated on the basis of State-wise divisions of the country into four
zones. Competent and experienced individual theatre directors and their groups
are identified and those selected are offered substantial financial assistance to
cover the cost of the production.
During the course of the past one year four zone-wise festivals, lasting five days
each, were held in the capital towns of the States comprising the zone, viz.
Bangalore (Southern Zone), Panaji (Western Zone), Bhubaneswar (Eastern Zone)
and Lucknow (Northern Zone). The State Sangeet Natak Akadernis were

encouraged to collaborate with the Central Akaderni in organising the zonal
festivals. Out of the sixteen plays presented at the zonal level, eight selected plays
are being staged in the Natya Sarnaroh ‘84.
Under the present programme, the Sangeet Natak Akaderni, over a period of
five years, will have helped to stage eighty new productions and encouraged a
similar number of directorial ventures by young theatre directors in different lndian
languages. It will also have encouraged exploration of traditional folk and other
indigenous theatre forms on an unprecedented scale. Over the same period. the
programme will have resulted in twenty festivals of five days duration each at the
regional level and five major festivals at the national level involving the participation

of hundreds of theatre workers. It will also result in serious art exposure for nationwide audiences in thousands.
Taking advantage of the presence of a large number of eminent theatre workers
from all over the country on this occasion, the Akaderni, in association with the
India International Centre, is also organising a seminar on “Perspectives of

Contemporary lndian Theatre" which will take stock of and throw light on the
emerging triends in contemporary lndian theatre. This will help the Akaderni in
addressing itself more meaningfully to the fulfilment of the objectives of this
programme in the years to come.
The Natya Samaroh ’84 and the seminar will enable the theatre lovers of the
capital to see a body of new experimental work originating under a common

programme in different language areas of the country and hold discussions on
them as well. Such an exposure will be a fascinating experience for many, but for
the more serious segment of the audience, the Samaroh and the Seminar will
hopefully help in crystalising some of these thoughts on styles of theatre which are
indigenous in character and firmly rooted in the Indian soil, both in inspiration and
ou t look .

