NA’I'YA SAMAROH 1984

December 13
KHEL GURU KA ln Malwi
Adaptation of Vatsaraj’s Sanskrit play
Hasya Choodamani by Dr. Kamlesh Dutt Tripathi
Designed and directed by Bansi Kaul

Produced by M.P. Lok Kala Natak Akademi, Ujjain

SYN OPSI S
Kapatkali, a middle aged prostitute is worried about the theft of her ornaments.
She is introduced to a Guru, who pretends to possess the secret knowledge to
name the thief. As good luck would have it, the Guru could name the thief
correctly, who is the lover of her beautiful daughter. The Guru, in due course of
time is also infatuated by her and sends a Vashikaran Mantra to the daughter. The

rebel disciple casts the Mantra to Kapatkali, who comes to Guru to woo him. The
Guru is in a predicament. Meanwhile, the lover sends two strongmen to thrash the
Guru. The disciples befool them by suggesting that Guru possesses occult power
to find out the hidden treasure. They feel tempted and are sent to bring a certain
herb to be applied in the eyes. But a wrong herb which causes pain in the eyes,
creates pandemonium. At the end, the daughter of Kapatkali appears with her
lover and all are happy.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE ‘
For the past few years, it has been my endeavour to use the strong phenomenon
of the mofussil culture in my productions. Ujjain being the birth place of Maach, the
folk theatre -of the Malwa region of M . P. attracted me. Ujjain also being an ancient
religious centre, the community of Pandas of whom many are addicted to Bhang
have a definite contribution to make to its culture. There are two sorts of Akhadas
in Ujjain, one for the Sadhus and the other for acrobats. To lend a touch of
authenticity, wrestling and acrobatic feats have been incorporated into the play.
The original script has only two characters: one Chela and one Nagar Vadhu.
During improvisation, the number appeared insufficient, so we increased the
number to five Chelas and six Nagar Vadhus. We added five more characters to
lend the play modern relevance. We have kept in view the local slang in evolving the
language of the play. The songs of the play have mostly been tuned in Maach style
of singing used in the Purvaranga.

CAST AND C RE D IT
Viqar Farooqui: Agarbatti Pelwan; Samil Charegaonkar: Mombatti Pelwan:
Satish Dave: Antya Pelwan; Lokendra Rathorey Santya Pelwan; Raje
sh
Chowdhry: Dantya Pelwan; Milind Karkare: Chantya‘Pelwan; Rajesh Chowdhry
:
Ghantya Pelwan; Dinesh Mathur: Dhapor Shankh; Rajendra Awasthi: Ajab
Bheru; Rakesh Bhatnagar: Gajab Bheru; Kailash Chauhan: Sanan Bh
eru;
Shailendu Jain: Ghaman Bheru; Dhanraj Tatawat: Latak Bheru; Sheela Vy
as:
Amawasi; Karuna Srivastava: Dol Gyaras; Chanchala Rajoo: Bas Baras; Na
rayan
Kumrawat: Dhan Teras; Nand Kishore: Roop Chaudas; Prakash Ch
andra Raj:
Phool Pandras; Karuna Srivastava: Ram Pyari; Rajesh Chowdhry: Furrilal.
Directorial Assistance: Satish Dave and Viqar Farooqui who also helped
Bansi
Kaul in adapting the play in Maach style.

BANSI KAUL (b. 1949)
A graduate of the National School of Drama, is director, script writer
, music
composer and set designer—— all rolled into one. Nomadic by preference
, he has
directed over fifty plays in various languages in varied folk styles. M.P. Na
tak Lok
Kala Akademi, Ujjain, which presents the play, is a training institutio
n offering a
year's diploma course in theatre.

