NATT'A SAHAROII 1984

December 14
Harish Charmer Ki Larai In Hindi

Written and directed by Urmil Kurnar Thapaliyal,
Produced by Darpan, Lucknow

S Y N O PS 1 S
Master Hariya's greatest performance as a Nautanki actor is the protrayal of
Raja Harish Chandra, a role he plays to much public acclaim. His dilemma is the
duality of his existence. The protagonist of the traditional Nautanki play, the

truthful and upright Raja Harish Chandra, seems to belong to a fairy-tale
existence— not to the flesh and blood reality of Master Hariya’s world. But Master
Hariya suddenly becomes a square peg in a round hole and all that seems to matter
to him from a particular day onwards, is to resolve the contradiction which is his
personal life. And thereby hangs this tale.

He has gone for a performance to the Devi Mela. Here, he comes face to face
with the patron Goddess. The outcome is his pledge to live by the principles of the
‘Satyavadi' Pauranic character whose life he lives in any case, every night. The
battle begins: The battle which isolates him from family and society—— from Man
and God. Every night on stage, truth triumphs. Everyday offstage, the man is
broken bit by bit.

D 1 R E C T O R ‘ 8 NOTE
The themes portrayed in Urban- Nautanki do not have a definite story-line. They
are developed from everyday occurences and contemporary incidents. Harish
Channer Ki Larai, however is an amalgam of pieces out of various literatures. The
Pauranic part is taken from the traditional Nautanki repertoire: Satya Harish
Chandra urf Gulshan ka Naag by Shrikrishna Pahalwan and Raja Harischandra
Nautanki by Ustad lnderrnan Nattharam Gour—and the ‘conflict' part is from
Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena’s 'Larai'. Some poems and a few couplets of Dushyant
Kurnar and Dhoomil have also been used.
Unlike the folk drama of South-India which integrates dance, music and acting to
make it into a total theatrical experience, Nautanki is only music-based. The
Kanpur Nautanki, which is supposed to be actingdominated, is after all a diluted
form of Parsi Theatre cross-fertilised with a dilution of the Khyal music which
dominates Hathrasi Nautanki. To my mind the history of Nautanki should be
traced back to only about a hundred years. For the rest, 1 think, is illusion.
1 have not tried to use the traditional Nautanki meter of poetry, its musical idiom
or its grammar in its entirety. Whenever 1 have felt the necessity, l have broken its
structure. The main actors have also been taken from the urban amateur stage.

C A ST A N D CREDITS
Ashwani ‘Makkhan’: Harishchandra; Shobhana: Tararnati; Ritun Thapaliyal:
Rohitashua; Shivaji ‘Awara’ : Indra and Sampadak; Manoj Joshi: Vishwamitra and
Thekedar; Urmil Kurnar Thapaliyal: Mali; Sandhya Thakur: Malan; Viiai
Shrivastava: Nero; Anil Rastogi: Commissioner; Roopraj Nagar: Patrakar; Ashok
Singh: Daroga; Piyush Pande: Master; Anil Saxena: Ration Officer; Tuliya Gupta:
Nartaki; Kavita Solanki: Deui; Vinita Solanki: Budahijiui; Chorus: Devesh
Agnihotri, Rakesh Agnihotri, Vijai Tiwari, Virendra Rastogi & Rajiv Prabhakar

Awasthi. Musicians: Ram Manohar Dubey— Harmonium, Dilawar Khan—
Nakkara, Shaqil Alam— Dholak & Gauri Shankar~ Clarionet.

URMIL KUMAR THAPALIYAL (b. 1943)
Thapaliyal’s theatre training began in the Rarnlilas of Garhwal in his early
childhood. Since 1971 he has been working with Lucknow's Darpan, an active
amateur theatre group, also engaged in reviving Nautanki. Darpan has prod
uced
45 plays and given more than 450 performances.

