NAT'YA SWO" 1984

December 15
HULIYA NERALU ln Kannada

by Chandrasekhar Kambar
Designed and directed by Prasanna
produced by Janapada Repertory Group, Bangalore

SYN OPS l S
Raja Gowda, the head of the village, is killed during a tiger hunt in a forest. by the
demon who has taken the form of a tiger. This demon enters Rajagowda‘s body and
comes to the village as an (super natural) imposter. With his advent into the village,
strange ominous and unholy occurances begin to mar the tranquillity of the
villagers' lives- Ramgowda. the Gowda's son is eventually visited by his father's
ghost which reveals to .him the true identity of the present Gowda and the fact of
the murder. The ghost urges Ramgowda to avenge his father's death . The Jakkinis,
who have been providing the narrative link of sequences which defy dramat isat ion ,
now take on a direct role in the cause and effect of the theme. They arm Ramgowda
with the magical tools which are to enable him to reach the life source of the
demonr— a parrot. The story, however, ends in a tragedy. Ramgowda's mother
who carries the imposter's child in her womb, is so hypnotised, that she unarms her
own sleeping son and surrenders his charmed weapons to the evil spirit of her
paramour.

DI R EC T O R ' 5 NOTE
‘Huliya Neralu' integrates the rich Karnataka folk theatre heritage with modern
playwnting. Unlike the early attempts at using folk forms which invariably ended
with just picking up decorative elements from tradition in the name of indigenous
material, this play concentrates on deep-rooted folk images.
It. is a play of words. The dramatic action emergrs mainly from within the
narrative. ln Karnataka there are folk forms like the Talarnaddale , Jogera At t a etc . .
which lay exclusive emphasis on words.

This production has a male, two narrators and two weird creatures called
Jakkinis. They take care of the narrative at different levels an chronicle the verbal
saga in a variety of ways. The dialogues in the dramatic scenes that are inter
spersed. are more lyrical than naturalistic.
The movement in the play is basically circular. like in most folk performances.
The core of the circle is also the core of the action. lt is an 8" *8" platform kept at the
centre which lifts up the central action for emphasis. The rest of the play whirls
round it in a mounting circle.

CAsr'
Lohithaswa~ Raya Gowda, Malathi —~ Gowdathi, Yateesh Kurnar lripya,
Sathya Sandka Witch 1, Walter D' souza—~ Witch ll. Y.N. Ravindra ८ Rama
Gowdu. Choodamaniw Shari, H.R. Krishnarnurthy क्यों Kari aiia, H.N.
Gopalaknshna ट्वे- Balya, A. Chandrashekar- Suthradara II, R. Cihhantana …
Karimayi. Ramesh Pandith 8: Sathyanarayana Bhatt r Chorus, BR, Hareesh
Village Boy.

P R A S A N N A ( h . 1951)
Playwright . director and designer, Prasanna is a graduate of the National School
of Drama. He has been instrumental in building Samudaya, a state-wide cultural
movement in Karnataka, which uses theatre for radical mass education.

