NATYA SWO" 1984

December 17
PASHU GAYATRI ln Mewan

Deepak Joshi’s translation of the Malayalam play
by Kavalam Narayana Panikkar

Designed and directed by
BHANU BHARTl
Produced by Disha Natya Sansthan, Udaipur

SY N O PS l S
The exorcist Jantri’s avariciousness leads him to the serpents who traditionally
are guardians of ancient wealth. In exchange they demand the sacrifice of his only
son. Before performing the sacrifice, the exorcist recites a magical hymn in his
son’s ears which makes him behave like a cow. Jhametia, a vagrant, who covets a
son rather than all his riches thinks he has stuck a bargain with Jantri, only to be

disgusted afterwards as the boy does not respond to him and continues his cow
act. Finally, to make the most of a bad bargain, Jhametia offers the boy/cow to the
butcher for slaughter. The understanding is that the latter would retrieve the lucky
and rare Go-Medo for him from the boy/cow’s body.
In the meanwhile, it is revealed to the butcher’s daughter that the boy is a sacred
soul from the Nagavansh. She stops the slaughter but loses him in a celestial vision.
For her, begins the desire of the moth for the star!
Jantri and Jhametia have also realised by now that money and power are not

everything, and set out looking for the boy. All three meet in the Nagalok. The boy
is right in front of their eyes but they cannot identify him. They continue searching.
it is a spiritual quest.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Gavari, the community theatre of the Bheels in Mewar (Rajasthan) has always
fascinated me. I see immense possibilities in the form particularly because of its
musical strain. The performance, as l have evolved it, is therefore conducted and
regulated by the music. This provides an amazing force and flexibility to the entire
production. After the present experiment I am absolutely confident that any
theme, howsoever, ‘modern’, can be tackled effectively in this form. More than his
productions, plays of Shri Pannikkar have interested me. This beautiful, poetic
allegory is excellent material for any language. I have attempted to produce the
work of a modern playwright in the G avari form, with the original tribal players who
are performing for the first time outside their milieu, minus the usual forty days of
the long rituals which go with it. Achieving a secular, artistic performance outside
the codes of strong religious beliefs and rituals has been extremely difficult but very
e xc iting.

CAST 8: CREDITS
KHAMANIA— Nahar, RODA RAM— Deuiambau, DALU— Nigati of Devi,
MANA RAM— Budhiya, KHEMA RAM— Jantri, RODA RAM— Jharnatia,
MANA RAM Cheat, KHAMANIA— Butcher, DEEPAK DleT— Boy,
SWAROOP RAM— Girl, DHANNA RAM, TULSl RAM, NANA RAM, PEMA,
BHAMRU, SWAROOP RAM, RAJKUMAR, DHAYBHAI— Nag, DEEPAK
JOSHI, NARENDRA GUPTA, ATULYA, KlRTl VYAS— Singers, KANNA—
(Madal), SHIV RAM~- (Thali), DALU RAM— (Kasi) SWAROOP RAM —— (Dhol),
BHAMROO— (Haka)

BHANU BHARTI (b. 1947)
Bharti is an NSD gruduate. with some outstanding experiments to his credit. He
is one of those artistes who does not reject but imbibes influences. he has studied ——

and subsequently used—Non and Kabuki in Japan on a fellowship from the
Japanese Government.
‘

