NA'I‘YA SAMARﬂﬂ 19§§

December 19
ASHIK TE GOPALI ln Kashmiri

Designed and directed by: RS. Kemu
Produced by National Bhand Theatre,
Wathora (J.K.)

SY N O PS l S
The play is based on a Kashrniri folk tale of a Gosain (Sadhu) and a milk-maid. A
Gosain who lives on Shankaracharya hill comes down daily to fetch milk. The milkmaid—Gopali, who is attracted by the Gosain starts participating in his religious
discourses. The Gosain, unaware of her infatuation, increases his association with
her, taking her keen interest to be a desire for spiritual enlightenment. This contact
encourages her and one day she expresses her love for him. She is ready to
sacrifice everything, renounce worldly comforts and tread upon the difficult path of
the ascetics. But the Gosain who had started their relationship with a tremendous

amount of confidence in his asceticism finds himself unable to face her beauty. At
this point, he vanishes.

The play does not end here. For the dilernna now is how to perform his last rites
in the absence of the body! A situation open to satire which is taken up by the three
uidushaka in the right spirit of the folk form—with much aplomb.

DIRECTOR'S NOTE
Bhand Pather, the folk theatre form of Kashmir is known for its gesticulation,
satire and mimicry. Unlike the other folk theatre forms which use mythological or
historical themes,‘ Bhand Pather is purely secular theatre.
Music plays a very important role in this form. Based on different Ragas and
Talas, it has its main source in Soofiyana Kalam—a combination of lrani,
Hindustani and Kashmiri music.
In the process of experimenting with this form it became inevitable that it be!
recreated and yet none of its essential elements be lost. The deeper I went into the

study of the form the easier it became for in to find solutions for communicating
with a total theatre language—a language which goes beyond the language of
words. The visuals of the form itself are very powerful. They are an expression
complete in themselves. Still, I feel that this form has not been fully explored and
that there are immense possibilities here for the enrichment of the contemporary
theatre repertoire.

CAST

'

Mohd. Ismail Bhat—Ashik Gosain; Abdul Gani Bhat—Gopali; Sonah Ulla Athar~—
Jogan; Faroq Ahmad—Bod Gosain; Gulam Ali Majboor—Gour; Nazir Ahmed——
Theda; Ama Kak—Dora; Bashir Ahmed—Mirchi; Mizaffar—Dyne; Gulzar
Ahmed, Abdul Hamid, Gulam Qadir, Mohd. Akram, Mohd. Ramazan, Mohd.
Sultan, Mohd. Hashim—Gosains; Bashir Ahmed, Gulam Hassan, Mohd.
Maqbool, G ularn Ahmed —Jogies; Abdul Gani Bhat, Mohd. Ramzan, Abdul Rahirn
Bhat, —- Chorus, Abdul Gani Bhat, Abdul Rahirn Bhat, Mohd. Ramzan—
Surnai; ‘Ab. Salam Bhat— Dhol; Moinuddin— Nagara. *

RS. KEMU (b. 1957)
An NSD graduate, Kernu has chosen Bhand Pather, a Kashrniri folk theatre
form for this play, which at one time was performed by wandering ministrels. While
“there is ample scope for lampooning and satirising contemporary situations,
Bhand Father’s chief assets are it soulful Soofiana music and the solemnity of its
main themes.

