फैii

Holding on to the elusive

it
हू I
* rbwing up is a lot about

\

. , ‘v

v - ,

, दृ looking aheadtowards an

Rita we

' T unfolding fut’ure. Growing old — or just older —
is a lot about looking back. As re- the accustomed eye. Like thejaneu,
membrances of things past tug at for example, the ‘sacred’ thread of
you the more, the more compelling- rituals. Or such humdrum items as
ly they recede. The three women rows of masala containers. Or
who went back In Search of Lost quaint labels and paan shop calenTime in their art at Ganges Art Gal- ‘ dars that immediately evoke,
lery recently are certainly not old. through their cheap printing and
But they seem to have reached that Hindi script, a kind of raw, heatpoint of maturity where the past, and-sweat bazaar ethos. Besides, the
aching with nostalgia, begins to experience of the physical distance
compete with the allure of the between her past and present life, of
time zonesand air travel, seeks such
future.
Particularly if, like Nandini correlatives of imagery as maps
Chirimar, your me-ness as a ﬂuid, and letters, along with her observaarticulated becoming has had to tionsjotted down in untidy scrawls.
contend with relocation: from
Interestingly, these elements
home, home town and homeland to seem to have just drifted into her art
an adopted country. Since she is . in scraps and layers — unbidden by
from Jaipur but lives in America, conscious planning, as it were —
her identity has been shaped not with the light, shifting evanescence
just by a conﬂuence of cultures — of mirages, and are mostly in faded
inevitable in this century —' but also reds or greys. But of course, for all
by the persistent echoes of her Indi- its persuasive tentativeness, her art
an roots, faded though they may get. is crafted with a rich mix of techIronically though, this uprooting, niques and media: etching,
the compulsory distancing it en- aquatint, collography, watercolour;
tails, retrieves from the staleness of ink, pencil, thread and so forth. And
habit a freshness of seeing and ex- the result? Imperceptibly, insistently captivating.
.
periencing the known.
The ५ second artist, Samanta
Thus, it isn’t justthe architectural features of Jaipur — an acknowl- Batra Mehta (picture), also based in
edged tourist attraction — or old America, is at her best in photophotographs that find their way graphs that have been worked upon,
into her mixed media works, but the probably digitally, to create a haunteveryday little things overlooked by ing atmosphere. The subject of

large rooms/ halls in period houses
is not exactly new in summoning a
past humming with memories, but
she’s made them larger and intriguingly many-sided by slicing and
splicing the images at will, quite
dramatically. She then inserts ﬁgures in them that seem to be strange
apparitions, ﬂitting about, searching, mourning, perhaps tryi I g to recover and hold on to what’s ‘ ainfully elusive.
I;
Coming to Calcutta’s Pa a Sengupta is to confront pain th t must
deal with itself through so ण e kind
of cathartic gesture. In her ase, it
lies in embracing “the legacy” of
embroidery inherited from her
mother. The latter’s prolonged ill-

ness and death — about which the
artist writes movingly … brought
her face to face with emotions,
dilemmas, thoughts that are as universal as they are intensely private.
Sengupta’s Memory Closet - two
glass and wood cupboards containing handkerchiefs she embroidered
… reveals how the act of stitching,
meditative in its focused concentra—
tion, became her act of reconcilement. The handkerchiefs are objects sanctified by memory; embroidered with images of spectacles and
watches, they seem to suggest that
her experience of the suffering and
death of a loved one has gifted her
with an inner eye. A philosophic
eye.

But of course,
the inner eye is a
gift of the creative temperament that can, in—
deed, turn the
mundane magi—
cal and menacing
by turns. You can
see that in Somenath
Maity,
whose series exploring architecture
as
a
metaphor for the
chameleon iden—
tities a city dons
and doffs, was
displayed
in
Gallery Sanskriti
at his recent solo show, his 34th.
In his early years, while he was
with Arts Acre, the emphasis was
on black. Perhaps because Calcutta,
after the green vistas of his village
in Midnapore, seemed oppressive,
overpowering, sinister. But colour;
in acrylic and oil, gradually entered
his art to edge out ink and charcoal.
Because, yes, Maity is mighty ﬂuent
as a colourist. Wielding a versatile
spatula to blend or texture tones,
blur or sharpen outlines, whip up
clouds, let paint drip or run dry, he
may conjure a calming fantasy here
and a simmering welter there. The
geometry of his vision does indeed
Structure … the title of the show —
an unsettling proﬁle of the city.

