DIRECTOR'S NOTE
Lorem lpsum is a play in which we have tried to illustrate the dichotomy of experiences; the pain
of sadness and the tears of happiness. The content of this play has different theories running
behind flying, disappearance and the anecdote of mankind's aspirations for ﬂying.
The aerospace industry is no more an elite travelling extravaganza. Registering the global economy
common man is able to ﬂy more rarnpantly from one destination to another in this present age and
the memories of journey are becoming drier, arid and muggy, for the sake of saving time. Possibly
many people might have experienced similar during their train journeys. Before the launching of
aero planes we know how rich the experience of the mankind was when they travelled in a train or a
ship for a lengthy period where their personalities got changed, acquired lot of knowledge and got
accu ltu rated .
Today, we know how aero planes symbolize the wealth of a nation, at the same time; we know these
aero planes need huge amounts of fuel for ﬂying. And I think we are quite aware of the hegemony of
nations which have more oil and the war powers. Today these aero planes are becoming a weapon
for attacking and shattering the harmony of a nation. The intensity of turmoil created by a hijack or a
pilot's death on board or machine failure is not only counts for the fellow travelers in the ﬂight but for
their family members, relatives and parliamentarians of that nation in totality. In nutshell, the theories

of disappearance of a ﬂight could be sensible. It all sounds for mankind “there is no one who loves
pain itself, who seeks after it and wants to have it, simply because it is pain”. It is like today's
politicians annotating in their speech certain quotes from the pu ran ic text without understanding the
actual meaning and content behind those lines. But quoting it for validating today's scenario.
When we theatre workers take a galley of ideas for human disappearance from a ﬂight and
scrambles it to make a light specimen, we try to replace meaningful context with emotional stories of
passengers in the ﬂight allowing viewers to focus only on graphic aspects such as acting, designing
and visualization without being distracted by the content or theme. The whole play has developed
from a series of improvisations by students from the ideas of Rajesh Tailang and the creative team.
Is this a gibberish play; for our conscience and thoughts in the era of privatization in the ﬁeld of
aeronautics?
— Abhilash Pillai

