LOREM IPSUM हैं the idea, the process & the title
Theldea:
Generally, human beings have an everlasting dream of ﬂying from ancient times. We know we can not ﬂy in
reality; that is why we often ﬂy in dreams instead. What does 'ﬂying in dreams‘ mean? According to the
dream theories, it means empowerment. Most often, it has good meaning too. During a dream we feel as if
we know how to ﬂy, and ﬂying habit is a completely natural activity that is as much a part of our daily life as
breathing or doing anything. We enjoy the scenery from the sky; feel ﬂowing smoothly through the air,
unbothered by opposing winds or obstacles in our path. The freedom to ﬂy without fear or weights that hold
us to a mundane life on the ground can be the most exhilarating feeling we ever have experienced in the
past. Out of dream, there is always a sense of freedom in ﬂying but at the other side there remains a fear of
falling!

We always think if we can ﬂy like birds in the sky. We do everything running to swimming but cannot ﬂy despite
knowing the fact that there are many references of ﬂying in almost all the mythologies— be it Greek or Indian
ones. According to these rnythologies, there were many gods and demons that used to ﬂy with their imaginary
wings. Yet all these myths remained mere myths and could not be approved by science. However, in the recent
100 years of the history of humankind, we endeavoured an external device with the advent of science i.e.
aeroplanes that helps us ﬂying, not only ﬂying but transporting us from one destination to another lathe sky.

Today, the speed of our ﬂying is too high that we are racing each other to reach the Mars at any cost. Perhaps, in
such a shorter period in the tirneline of our aviation history, we ﬂee too high as it did not remain merely an प
instinct or dream whereas the birds are still ﬂying as they were ﬂying from ancient times.
: . एं-दृदुड्डे , 2—7... .
The Process:
When Abhilash was asked to do a play with ﬁnal year students of National School of Drama, he requested his
contemporary writer-actor Rajesh Tailang—with whom he has a long working relation, to get a new experience
and
with him and write something new for him. Abhilash is a kind of director who always searches new
the
challenging terrains for his teaching/directorial creations. He always looks into such subjects that most of
al
other directors rarely attempt to do. He tries to create a kind of theatrical expression from very non-theatric
Then both
subjects. When this idea of ﬂying came into their discussion, without hesitation he said why not...
to very
Due
started brainstorming and 'freedom of ﬂying' and 'fear of falling' became point of their discussion.
a performance
less possibility of theatricality in the subject, they both took it as a challenge and thought to make
came to
thought
A
.
on flying or related subjects. Rajesh had shown a documentary on Kandhar hijack of l C—8 1 4
much deliberation,
recreate the documentary into a play but could not do so for one or another reason. After
title was also
finally, it was decided that the performance should happen only in an aircraft. A tentative
conceived — On Thin Air. Meanwhile, Firos and myself also joined the team.
the ﬁrst session of the
With this vary idea of performance in the airplane and a tentative title; we entered into
company which is in a bad
students. The rehearsal place was the space of the then Kathak Kendra repertory
n under the guidance of
condition but the students were very enthusiastic to start work on their ﬁnal productio
gave us a kind of momentum.
Abhilash and we ignored other things around. Seeing them in full energy and faith
inputs and initiated them to
However, Abhilash did not share complete idea to the students instead gave a few
meantime, Harish Khanna
the
in
start improvisations with a basic thread of idea. Improvisations proceeded and
and Santosh Kumar Singh as our
and Naresh Kumar also joined the team, followed by Parijeet Kaur (Rimmy)
seeing the improvisations one
team members to guide the students in their respective discipline. We started
it to get a kind of structure for the
after another and gave thoughtful feedback to the students involved in
performance. The improvisations were chronologically as following:
to person, students brought out creative
1 . What is FLYING for you? : As the idea of ﬂying changes from person
nce which ranges from paper ﬂight to
expressions to communicate their idea/ feeling of their ﬁrst ﬂying experie
swing to climbing up on the tree.

दृ

1'

