2. Creating inside atmosphere of an aeroplane: How you feel inside an aeroplane. What makes you feel
while ﬂying? Students created different atmosphere of an aeroplane.
3. Take off, Landing and Turbulence: Flying in an aeroplane has three major experiences. How we ﬁnd a
way to express these three different sensations.
4. Check-in Counter: From personal to public things in the process of boarding a passenger aeroplane.
Flying experience is a corporate / public / commercial system where we see numerous characters with

various traits.
5. Security Check: Security check represents an amalgamation of personal and private. Frisking and
checking of security comes out of states' fear of 'the other'. How does it work, technically, politically and in a
creative way?
6. A Pilot's day: A day in the life of a Pilot was to understand the unknown self of the found character, what
happen in their life other than ﬂying an aeroplane?
7. The Cockpit: There is nurnourous space inside the aeroplane—both public and private. But Cockpit
is the
most captivating space one would love to have. We always been curious about what happens
there? How
can we create a space and a character there?
8. An Airhostess' day: Airhostess is our first memory or associations with aeroplane.
Who are they in
person? What happens in a day of their life?
9. Leaving home for a journey: Travelling is one of the most philosophical things
that bring revelation to
mankind. Each one has their own reasons, aims, and ambitions behind travel.
Perhaps there is a dream
behind every travel. Leaving from a horne/ ofﬁce or any private space to
a journey brings their own
character traits.
10. Awkward moment: Sharing personal space in a public atmosphere
with a stranger becomes awkward
sometimes. Students were told to capture this moment in an aeroplane
space.
11 . The unseen life of cabin crew in a group improvisation. How life works
inside an aeroplane between the
crew members?
12. On board emergency: It was an individual improvisation. It's
about an aircraft that ﬂoats in the air and
any type of emergency can happen inside it.

1 3. Advertise ﬂying: Make a n advertisement to sell the concept/
metaphor of ﬂying .
14. Three genres three topics- Different happening occurs
inside a plane. lrnprovise if it is horror, suspense
thriller OR comedy.
15. Toilets/ Personal Space: As every personal space
, there are personal spaces i.e. toilets inside an
aeroplane. What people do inside aeroplane toilet other
than what it is made for— urinating or shitting?
16. Safety Instructions Musical: Safety instructions are
the mandatory/ ofﬁcial thing in an aeroplane. Find
the music and celebration in it. Students made a musica
l and later Rajesh gave words to the song. Thus a
whole song was composed and prepared by the students.
17. Life threatening Emergency: What can be life threat
ening emergency in an aeroplane that can take our
lives? Students were asked to find one of a kind of emerg
ency.
18. Revelation: It is character based exercise and given
to find the details of a situation.
19. H ighjack/ skyjack: In an aeroplane there is
high risk of hijack. What could be the newest form
of the
hﬁack?

20. From boarding to feeding: students were asked
to do improvisations related to two types of planes
, one
of cheapest ticket price i .e. Rs. 50/- and another
of costliest i.e. Rupees 1 O lacs per ticket.
Out of these improvisations, we started choosing
workable ideas and then Rajesh started build
ing a kind of
structure for the performance. He then came
with an, impressive presentation describing
what to be
included in the performance. Taken from thes
e improvisations, he also made a character
sketch of crew
members and passengers that include physi
cal state as well as one of the traits. On his
reco
mmendations,
later Abhilash did casting of the ﬁnal year
students. Then we shared the power point
presentation to the

