WHO WA S SA LIERI .7
Where there are hundreds of books about Mozart, there is

virtually nothing about Salieri. No biography in English 1s available;
there is one in German and one in Italian. As for his mus1c, only a
few of the hundreds of scores he wrote are in existence. So admired
in his time, he is so forgotten today.
Antonio Salieri was born in Legnago (Italy) on 18 August '
1750—which made him six years older than Mozart. He was a talented
boy, his teachers well-known; one of them, Florian Gassman, took
young Antonio to Vienna in 1766. There, in 1769, he met the great

Christoph Gluck, who became his mentor and friend.
Salieri turned out to be an expert craftsman who wrote music
that appealed to the tastes of his day. “Armida”, an opera staged in
Vienna in 1771 was a big success and made Salieri’s name. It can be
deduced that he was a suave operator, able to work within the intrigues
of the Viennese court. In 1774 he succeeded Gassman as Court
Composer and Conductor of Italian operas.
He married Teresa Helfenstorf’er in 1775, and the union

resulted in eight children. He took a two-year leave of absence from
Vienna in 1778 and went back to Italy where he composed successful
operas for Milan, Rome, Naples and Venice. He returned to Vienna in

1781. He succeeded Gluck at the Paris Opera in 1784, alternating
between Paris and Vienna. At the death of Emperor Joseph 11 in 1790,
he lost his strongest patron. The new king, Leopold II, was not as
cordial to Salieri as Joseph had been, and Salieri asked to be relieved of

his operatic duties. But Leopold did not relieve him of his job as
Kapellmeister, which he remained until 1824, the year of his death.

In all, Salieri served the Viennese court for more than 50 years.
He had the reputation of being a good administrator. No scandal was
ever attached to his name except for the rumour that he had poisoned
Mozart. He was abstenious, drank only water, but had a weakness
for sweets. He seems to have been generous—a devout man and a

philanthropist who helped needy musicians (though there is no record
of his having helped Mozart). His imposing presence, courtly manners
and great fame helped raise the social status of musicians. He was

respected, honoured, admired and decorated. His pupils included
Beethoven, Schubert and Liszt.

In 1823 he attempted suicide, but for what reasons We do
not know.

