WHO WA S MOZART?
“The greatest prodigy that Europe, or that even Human
Nature has to boast of, is, without contradiction, the little German
boy, Wolfgang Mozart.” So thought Daines Barrington in 1765 when
Mozart was nine years old.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born in Salzburg on 27
January 1756 to fervent Roman Catholic parents. His father, Leopold
Mozart, was a talented musician in the service of the Prince-Archbishop
of Salzburg. He had no doubt that his son was supremely talented,
and loved him to the point where he assumed a maternal as well as
a paternal role.
Music absorbed and consumed Mozart from babyhood. At
three years of age he was playing the piano; at ﬁve he composed four
minuets and an allegro and played the organ; and at six went with his
father and sister through Austria, France, England, Belgium, Holland
and Switzerland, playing before kings, and composing and publishing
music. At fourteen he wrote down from memory Allegri’s Miserere
after a single hearing of it in the Pope’s Chapel in Rome. By the age
of eighteen he had composed two ’hundred and forty-two pieces.
His life, which had opened with unparalleled brilliance, was

really a steady decline, closing in drab, sad, obscure circumstances.
The European tour during 1762-1766 established him as a child- .
performer. A tour of Italy with his father during 1769-1771 established
him as a famous composer. The irony of Mozart’s future in 1771 was
that in terms of career he had no future. Ten years later he found
himself dismissed ignominiously from the Prince-Archbishop of'
Salzburg’s service, living precariously in Vienna and forever trying to
improve his position. By then he had become an adult, about to
marry, requiring not merely praise but employment. Within another
ten years he was dead.
Few people doubted that Mozart was gifted, but when he had
ceased to astonish as a prodigy not many of them could be bothered
to encourage the display of his gifts. Nobody came forward to
patronize him firmly—several of the most powerful. patrons .indeed
politely declined. Nor is this because of the soc1al situatlon for
musicians in that period. Society might claim that it d1d not push
Mozart into the water; but it found little place for him in its boat, and

watched indifferently while he drowned.
“Mozart was the slave and spoil of kings, the creator of
supreme beauty for swine....It is the worldis curse and foul
crime, repeated age after age, that no d1v1nebe1ng 1s to be
allowed to Share in this life the unearned portion of the average
man : happiness.” (Arthur Symons.)

