QUOTE . . . . . .
“Joseph 11 is perhaps the completest enlightened despot in European
history . . . . His youthful reading had brought him certain doctrines

of the inherent natural rights of man . . . . but he also believed that
in all matters temporal, the ruler was absolute, responsible to no

man. . . . Joseph decided everything himself, from issues of the
highest policy. to such problems as whether a zebra should be bought
for Schonbrunn Zoo, or whether girls in State institutions should wear
stays . . . .”
C. A. Macartney, ‘T/Ie Hapsburg Empire’ (1968)

“Joseph 11 formed the plan. . . . of alienating taste from Italian
operas by supporting German Singspiele and singers . . . . He accor—
dingly assembled the best singers, and commissioned a German opera
from Mozart. For these virtuosi he wrote the well-known and wellloved ‘The Flight from the Seraglio’ in l 78 2. It created a widespread
sensation ; and the cunning Italians soon saw that such a mind could
endanger their foreign tinklings. Envy now awoke with all the
sharpness of Italian poison ! The monarch, at the heart delighted
with this new and deeply expressive music, nevertheless said to
Mozart : ‘Very many notes, my dear Mozart !’ ”
Franz Xaver Niemetschek, ‘Mozart’ (I808)

“The Emperor himself is well aware of his own meanness and has
passed me over solely on this account.”
Mozart, letter to his father (October 1782)

“An intriguer . . . There can be no question of Salieri’s malevolent
interference with the success of his Austrian colleagues. His ﬁne

musicianship told him to concentrate his malice on Mozart, whose
lamentable fate was
machinations . . . . ”

due

in

no

small degree to the Italian’s

P. H. Lang, ‘Music in Western Civilisation’ (1941)

“Artists were calmly proceeding, industriously and actively, along
the sure and direct road of art and approaching their fulﬁlment,

according to the laws of Nature— when suddenly Mozart appeared,
and by force of his genius brought about a general revolution in
artistic taste . . . ”
Ernst Ludwig Gerber, ‘New Lexicon’ (1813)

