० . . . . . UNQUOTE
“One day I was sitting at the pianof’orte playing the ‘Non piu
andrai’ from Figaro, Mozart, who was paying a visit to us, came up
behind me . . . . He hummed the melody as I played and beat the
time on my shoulders; but then he suddenly moved a chair up, and

began to improvise such wonderfully beautiful variations that everyone
listened to the tones of the German Orpheus with bated breath. But
then he suddenly tired of it, jumped up and, in the mad mood which
so often came over him, he began to leap over tables and chairs,
miaow like a cat, and turn somersaults like an unruly boy.”
Kardine Pichler, ‘Memoirs’ (1843—44)
“Dearest coz Fuzz !

I have received reprieved your dear letter telling me that my uncle
carbuncle, my aunt can’t and you too are very well hell. Today the
letter sent from my Papa Ha ! Ha ! dropped safely into my paws
claws . .'. . I wish you goodnight, but ﬁrst shit into your bed and
make it burst. Sleep soundly, my love, into your mouth your arse
I’ll shove . . . . Oh my arse is burning like ﬁre ! What on earth does
it mean ? Ye gods ! can I believe those ears of mine ‘2 Yes indeed it
is so . . . . what a long melancholy note! I kiss you and thousand
times and remain always your little old piggy wiggy . . .”
(NB.

Mozart, aged 21 in a letter to his cousin (1777)
This is a milder version of what he actually wrote.)

“I, Amadeus Wolfgangus Sigismundus Mozart, hereby plead guilty
and confess that yesterday and the day before from ten o’clock until
midnight at Cannabich’s house, and in the presence and company of
the said Cannabich, his wife and daughter, I did frequently, without
any difﬁculty but quite easily perpetrate many rhymes, the same being
moreover sheer garbage, that is, on such subjects as muck, shitting
and arse-licking . . . . I confess all these transgressions of mine in the
,
."
.
hope of having to confess them often.”
Mozart, in a letter to his father (1777)

and
८ “Salieri . . . keeps claiming that he is guilty of Mozart’s death
५ made away with him by poison . . . .”
'

Beethoven ‘Conversation Books’ (1823)

