LOKADHARMI THEATRE GROUP
a group and
In October 1991, twenty-ﬁve theatre enthusiasts started working together as
has a theatre
have emerged as one of the important theatre centres of the country. It
wing named
training school, a repertory, a theatre laboratory and a children’s theatre
ations of
Mazhavillu (Rainbow). The important productions include Malayalam adapt

speare’s
’Karnnabharam,’ (classic Sanskrit play by Bhasa), ’Chathankattu,’ (William Shake
es),
’The Tempest’), ’Nandan Kadha,’ (Tamil play by Indira Parthasarathy, ’Medea,’ (by Euripid
ed by
and ’Macbeth,’ (by William Shakespeare) and ’Poranadi,’ (by K.N.Panikker) - all direct
d
Chandradasan. The other productions include ’Andha Yug,’ (Dharrnaveer Bharathi) directe
and
by Sudheer Babu, ’Madhura Kandam,’ (by H.S.Shivaprakash directed by R.Raju),
by
'Bhagavadajjuka-Mathavilasam,’ (juxtaposition of two Sanskrit comedies directed
VR Selvaraj).
The productions of Mazhavillu are ’Charandas Chor,’ (by Habib Tanvir) and ’Panjarasala,’
(B.V.Karanth), both directed by Chandradasan and Tom & Jerry (Arun Puthezhathu) directed
by Sudheer Babu.. These productions have won National awards for presentation, direction
and acting at various important theatre festivals.
Lokadharmi has participated in important National and International theatre festivals all
over India including Bharath Rang Mahotsav in 2002 and 2004 at NSD New Delhi and
extensively all over Kerala.
Lokadharmi visited Greece to perform in the International festival on Ancient Greek
Drama 2001 .
Lokadharmi conducts regular theatre workshops and interactive sections with theatre
persons from all over the globe and also conducts extension workshops in campuses and
rural areas. The group also organizes syrnposiurns and seminars on theatre as well as invite
groups from all over the world to perform.
In January 2005 Lokadharrni launched a monthly programme named Stage & Screen which
is a monthly exposition of a new play by a young director along with the screening of a
classic film, with a view to develop an alternative space, system and practice for performing
v
and viewing of theatre and film.
Lokadharrni dreams about the emergence of a village theatre culture with immense energy
३
rooted in Indian etho . nd ५ है . tion, ' picting Indian realities.

है I I II /
/

=

