SYNOPSIS OF KAR N NAB HARAM
The time and space of action is from the Sixteenth day in the Warfield of
Mahabharata.
According to the Indian theatre tradition, the play starts with Nandi of the
Suthr'adhara which is interrupted by sound echoed from the war. The Bhata
(a soldier) describes to the audience that by the order of Duryodhana, Karnna
is proceeding to war to fight for Kauravas as Bhishrna has fallen. Karnna
advance to the battlefield, surrounded by the convoy of the men of war and
accompanied by Salyar, the charioteer.The soldier who contemplates Karnna
in the battlefield comments; "The great warrior Karnna, the son of Soorya is
seen disturbed and depressed in the war, instead of being mighty and
powerful. What is the reason of the internal anguish of this great hero who
was waiting for the combat and had cherished this, as the dream moment?

*
Ar

What is the reason of this turmoil and anguish?”The play analyses the reasons.
. Karnna is worried of his birth, his caste and his social status. Whether he is
the son of Kunthi and Soorya, or of Radha and Sutha? The mockery and
adulation of the society moulds his persona and fate. For a while he is

moved by the rneaninglessness of the war where men kill each other. He
says, ’irrespective of his win or loss, war is real debris’. This vision adds to his
turbulence.
-

Karn na tells Salyar a bout the curse given by his Guru, Parasurama.This episode
is enacted by correlating the narration of the present with the enacting of

the past. Karnna solicit Parasurarna that he wants to study the art of archery
from 'm.To the query of the Guru he said that he is not a Kshatriya. Karnna
5 very honest and true to himself when he negated his being a
iya. He might have been airing a truth he felt from his own life
erience, of being brought up as the son of the Sutha and Radha. Finally
e guru finds out the truth and curses him. The astra advised by Parasurarna
is found powerless at the needed hour.
For. amoment Karnna remembers his biological mother Kunthi and her
words: to him. She had revealed that Karnna was her son, and pleaded him to
join ।२हे real brothers - which request he turned down. But this added to his

turmdrll and weakened his vigour.

.
.

"दृ
I
.,

.

The r13): moment Karnna regains his energy and vitality. He decides to go
into t ’— deep forest of war, to the horrendous warfront of his enemies and
defeat them. "I am to advance here, like entering into the deep forest after
killing the lion. Ride my chariot to Arjuna.”
I
The entry 'of Indra disguised as a Brahrnin, follows, who cunnineg takes
away the divine Kavacha and Kundala from Karnna. He understands that the
whole plot is master minded by the shrewd Krishna and accepts his fate in
return when a messenger from Indra offers a powerful weapon Vimala
which can destroy one among the Pandavas. Karnna is not willing to accept
a return for his generosity. But the messenger insists ’This is the word of a
Brahrnin’ which Karnna accept.
Accepting the challenge from Arjuna and Krishna, the invigorated Karnna
proceed to this ultimate fate heroically. Thus ends Bhasa’s play
KARNNABHARAM

