M
z‘x 3' at») if to i‘ क्या ३३ "३ "३
Ll if“ ILIQI. I! क्या II; ८3) i. ‘91 N [

1३ है Iii/A. IAI

I15 A IR: I

। feel that this production of’Karnnabharam,’ is signiﬁcant as a contemporary adaptation/transcreation based
on Bhasa’s text in many levels. It is a valid production in terms ofthe elaboration and expression ofthe content
at the
as well as in the search for a new form, a theatre language based on Indian performance tradition and

same time charged with emotive response to the contemporary Indian social situation. I feel the signiﬁcance
can be comprehended along the following attributes.

ती Link to contemporary social issues - a Dalit reading
The text by Bhasa is a much—discussed one and it is interpreted on Indian stage with different layers of meaning
and relevance.
I produced this play in I 992. It was reproduced many a times and performed all over India many times with
different artists performing. When I was about to do this play in the early Nineties, the most important and
hottest Indian debate was about the caste
system that prevailed here. The Dalit
consciousness was on the uphill route at that
time. People were ﬁghting vehemently on the
road both supporting and protesting against the
implementation of Mandal Commission report. I
saw youths burning themselves in protest and
also vigorously ﬁghting for it. India became more
communal a nd the forces of caste/religion tried
their best to be in the Indian mainstream.
| read this play in this very disturbed political and
social context. And I could not resist this deeprooted social cataclysrn which was happening
around me to be kept out this production. Thus
this happened to be one production that has direct relation and relevance to the current and contemporary
situation. As many people later said and wrote this was a Dalit reading of the classic text by Bhasa.

a? A theater based on contemporary Indian situation - textual justification
For me the whole play is the answer to the question of the soldier who doubts about the reasons, of the
anguish of Karnna when he has to be heroic and throbbing with life. He is the one hero who was eagerly
waiting for his chance to be in war but when the time was ripe, he appears to be sad and depressed. Why? The
play analyses the various answers.
And I felt that the key answer lies in one of his ﬁrst monologues - Who am I? Am I the son of Sutha or Rad ha?
Or that of Surya and Kunthi?

