The difference is big and basically it delves into
the socia | status of the character. And he had faced
instances of humiliation in the original story of
Mahabharata itself for not being in the high clan
ofthe Kshatriya. So he questions his own position
in the battleﬁeld being a ’non-Kshatriya’.

1
]

Thus thematically the play became a re-reading ,
of the ancient text in the light ofthe social history
and the contemporary realities. The play and the
acting pattern are designed to suit to this
interpretation. As the director of this play, I feel
that such a reading is relevant and is successful
from the various reactions I received after the staging of the play at different locations.

:9 The Character of the protagonist — his dilemma
Karnna is in a state ofconternplation and self-understanding. He is aware that he is the victim of a social
structure and all those who pretend to be praising and adulating are really planning for his ﬁnale
downfall. But he cannot question and directly confront his fate nor foes, since he is a victim of a set of
moral value systems, a sort of education on a value system - about absolute truth, dharrna, offering to
Brahrnins, heroic death in war, Moksha and rebirths etc- on which the caste and class structure is built

upon. He is actually a prisoner of this set of va | ue system which he reflects again and again.

if) The group of Brahrnins watching,
rejoicing and plOtting
The design ofthe play and the acting pattern also has been
conceived as confronting dialectical components in
conﬂict to each other. A group of Brahrnins are always
positioned on stage watching, plotting, rejoicing and
calculating their strategies and mode of actions. All the
other characters emerge from this group, do their role to
defeat Karna and goes back to watch the anguish and
agonies of protagonist.

a?

Synchronization of other regional art M -…

N

forrns to derive a theatrical language
Theatrically this production joins for the search for developing a visual language based on Indian
performance tradition. In acting, physicalisation, movement and choreography, scenic setting,
costurning, music etc., the link to the India n theatre tradition is visible. Many forms — classical and folk
— are used as the support material and springboard
to develop this production.
The movement pattern and costurning of these
characters resemble the classical forms like
Kathakali and Koodiyattam, while that of Karnna is
more primitive and tribal. The music and lighting
pattern also are in synchronization with this dialect.
This dialectical contrast is extended to the way
lights is hued and the music is constructed.

