ती Key images - the five elements as visual metaphors/an atmosphere of ritual
and sacrifice.
I have tried to imbibe and relate the five elements — fire, water, air, space and earth - in this play, to lift it from
the levels of mundane and the ordinary consciousness into deeper levels of human existence.

a? The Sun motif/ the flame as the key source of acting design and characterization
Karnna is the son of Sun God and the vital energy in him is the continuation ofa burning flame in him. Thus the
image of a burning sun is the key motif in the play. Karnna holds the efﬁgy that is a representation of sun, to
which he relates on different moments in the play.Towards the end he burns it as part of sacriﬁce and drops it
to the guruthi/ninam . And then proceeds into a sort oftra nce so that he can tear the Kavacha and Kundala that
is ﬁxed to his body as a shield and the celestial remaining given to him by his father, the Sun God. His emotional
ups and downs are likened as to a burning ﬂame. Whenever he rises to the crescendo the Bra hmi ns who were
watching and controlling him with invisible cords intervene and
he is made to succumb to his ground reality. His ﬂame like existence
is visualized and constructed physically by the acting pattern of
the character. His dialogdelivery is modulated such that certain
lines he sneaks create opposite meaning than the dictionary
meaning of the same word. Thus the meaning is inverted without
changing the lines or the words. The words become the emotional
responses ofthe character to the state of his mind. In this context
the sonority ofthe language written by Bhasa is reinstated with a
contemporary sensibility to the current society and theatre and is
in tune with re-reading ofthe epics from the margins as the pivotal
centre.

a? Actor and character- Transcripts of Transformation
Externally it looks a much stylised production but internally I have used Stanislavski, and his method-acting
techniques to evolve the character of Karnna. The actor externally does stylised language rendering, singing
and movements, but the actor is contemplating to his own personal selfand personal experience to bring in the
warmth and passion to this epic character.The emotional memory is called upon in rehearsals and also while
performing. Thus this play became an experiment to use Stanislavskian approach to a very stylized production.
The very stylized and rhythmic movements and the text going into bordering poetry and verses
was not a
problem to the actor to use emotion memory quite successfullyThis makes this production highly emotiona
l

