and charged with energy unlike the many stylised productions that lack an emotional content and rely for
aesthetics and craft. It is the emotional memory and personal experience that also help the actor to reach
the state of possession and trance at the moment when he tears offthe Kavacha and Kundala to be given to
Indra disguised as a Brah min. The tool of realism transformed into the vehicle of transformation typical to
Indian rituals and rites is a successful idiom, | used in this play.
. . .C h a n d ra d a sa n

Responses _

-- - -… w,— ह्वा - -… ह्म a 7 WWW r m

The various reviews and reactions from critics and populace suggest me about the signiﬁcance ofthis play in
the scenario of contemporary theatre, social and political state of the nation. Some excerpts read as:

” . . . .This stylized adaptation of Karnnabhararn deals with the turbulence in the mind of Karnna at war, and

relate it to the contemporary social issues”

India Today

The performance in the open a i r, the lighting from natural torches (Deepam and Theevetti, the classical acting
style, and the music scored in Edakka and Thimi/a have contributed to the success ofthe production.
Indian Express

This dramatic spectacle has a theatre language biased on the body ofthe actor, than the verbal one. Martial
arts and classical heritage has helped in this unique dramatic rendering.

Malaya/a Manorama
It is his ideology that has made Karnna to give away his Kavacha and Kundala. Karnna failed to understand
that values like heroic death sacriﬁce etc . . . This presentation of Karnnabhararn has gone beyond the usual
and routine narrations of the Karnna episode and bravely analyses the social relationships and values that

molded Karnna.

Desabhimani daily

’ . . .Chandradasan’s Malayalam play Karnnabharam is simply superb . . ..and is a delightful mixture of the
classical and the folk . . . .The wonderful choreography and the music in this action packed theatre provide
the backdrop of battle . . . ”

Times of India
Traditional Indian theater always tries to remain close to elements.This production goes nearest to the ideal,
. . . .all the ﬁve elements ~earth, water, ﬁre, air and space have participated in this production”
Politics India.

