rig} i

/City/woesand dreams
ली

,३३३३३

A still from Li llete
Du bey’s Gauhar,
which is the story
of the singing star
Gauhar Jaan, who
was possibly the
first in India to lend
her voice for
records

३\

deepa
ga hlot
"she ﬁrst of the two big theatre
festivals that take place

है towards the end of the year,
the Prithvi Theatre Festival . concluded on Sunday with the Carnival,

that has performers coming together for a celebratory adieu to the days
of hectic activity, plays, fringe performances, music and talks with
theatrewalas — enveloping the cosy
theatre with warmth and fellow
feeling. (The second festival,
Centrestage, starts later this
month).
Of the plays watched (and it is
not possible to catch all of them),

strike and the gradual transformation of the spaces where people

(Vikram Sampath’s book on Gauhar
Jaan provided the inspiration for
worked and lived, into a glittering Mahesh Dattani’s script), the story
hub of malls, high-end shopping, of the singing star who was possibly
swanky restaurants and pubs, is a the ﬁrst to lend her voice for records
two new productions that showed familiar story of heartless develop— in the early days of the technology,
potential (once initial glitches are ment. The other event that touches when most singers imagined the
ironed out) are Akash Khurana’s the lives of the“ charactersr-are‘the ५'graxnophone machine would snatch

Bombay Dying and Lillete Dubey’s communal riots that wracked the
Gauhar.
The ﬁrst, written by Hussain

Dalal and Khurana, is in keeping
with the group’s (Alwarious) prefer—
ence for contemporary urban stories

city and altered its secular nature.
Shakir (Mishra) is found dead by
Mary (Shriya Pilgaonkar — excel—
lent),
the ' sweet,
lonely
chambermaid of a seedy hotel; the

that can easily be related to, and

man who was one of the few who
studded with good performances. It prospered with the mills locked him
was good to see actors Kumud out with a handsome compensation,
Mishra, Ayesh Raza Mishra and Ira but guilt about a past crime haunts
Dubey act in this play, since they are him. In contrast, living in a highnot normally associated with
Akvarious, but then many of today’s

rise

apartment built over the

graveyard of the old mill, are a yup—

theatre groups believe in a healthy, pie couple (Ira Dubey-Tariq
non-competitive environment, and Vasudeva), who may not want for
sharing of resources.
anything ﬁnancially, but the stress
The play is set in the city and the
three loosely connected stories have

and stories an‘ added dimension.

of urban living takes a toll on them.
Shakir’s
Hindu
employee
(Siddharth Menon) is haunted by
his own ghosts, but does not allow
tragedy to turn him into a vengeful
animal. And there’s the strange, ﬂirty hotel guest (Anand Tiwari), who
could be every woman’s nightmare.
From the everyday—ness of

The backgroundof the thriving mill
district, the destructive textile mill

past in Lillete Dubey’s Gauhar

one thing in common — the old
Bombay Dyeing mill in central
Mumbai. For a Mumbai resident,
either of a certain Vintage, or interested enough in the city’s history,
this fact by itself gives the characters

Mumbai living to the glories of the

portrait of the woman emerges with
more clarity (Purva Naresh’s plays,

Bai Se Bioscope Talc, Aaj Rang Haz'
and Ummo capture the tawaif’s life
with
remarkable
emotional

nuance).

_

Apart from the plays showcased
at the festival, casual conversations

their souls.
with theatre practitioners, underDubey’s coup lies in getting Zila line the diﬂiculties of groups who
Khan onto the stage to play
Gauhar’s mother Malka, as well as

want to do artistic work; not only is
it difﬁcult to raise funds (some are
the older Gauhar — and she is a trying out crowdfunding), there are
marvelous
singer.
Rajeshwari hardly any mid-sized and affordable

Sachdev, resplendent in beautiful theatres in Mumbai. For the big
saris and jewellery, makes for a producers, there are the large audi—
glamorous Gauhar Jaan, but lacks toriums (even to get dates in these is
the requisite lung power in her tough), sponsors and audiences
singing.
ready to pay high ticket rates. But
The story of a talented tawaif, where do the small, mid-sized and
Malka, and her daughter, follows experimental theatre people go?
the trajectory of many women of Alternative spaces are slowly openthat class, in that age — their ing up, but it’s not the same as
singing and dancing skills gave performing in a properly equipped
them some measure of ﬁnancial theatre, and a 200-400 seater audiindependence, but also left them torium is ideal for off-mainstream
vulnerable to exploitation by the plays, and more of these are badly
men in their lives — fathers, as well needed in a culture-deprived city.
as husbands, and in the case of
Gauhar Jaan, even her mother’s
supposedly loyal servant.
The structure of the play needs a Deepa Gahlot is an award-winning film
V bit of touching up and Gauhar and theatre critic and an arts
Jaan’s achievements and life high- administrator. She tweets at
lighted a bit more, so that the @deepaga hlot

