THE DIRECTOR

Mariusz 0rski
Education: Director and Michael Chekhov teacher,
Mariusz Orski, was born in Warsaw in 1957. He

etc.) and abroad (Croatia, Denmark, Germany,
Great Britain, Russia, Sweden). In October, 1995,

was educated at the State Academy of Performing

Mr. Orski taught a series of Michael Chekhov
Workshops to the acting company of the Oregon
Shakespeare Festival in Ashland, Oregon.
Mr. Orski has been involved with the
international Michael Chekhov movement since it
began in Berlin in 1992. He has taught and shared
his work in all four International Michael Chekhov
Conferences and was a member of the Organizing
Committee of the Third Michael Chekhov
International Workshop in 1994 at Emerson
College, England.
Directing: Mr. Orski's first professional
production was the musical play Triptych at the

Arts, Warsaw, from which he graduated in

Theatrology in 1980. He graduated from the
Faculty of Direction in 1985.
Between 1976 and 1981, Mr. Orski participated
in workshops and projects developed by Jerzy
Grotowski and the Laboratory Theatre and studied
Grotowski's methods of actor training.
In 1983-84 and again in 1989, Mr. Orski
received a Bourse from the French Government

and the Polish Ministry of Culture to assistant
direct in theatres in Paris.

In 1988, he was awarded a Fulbright
Scholarship in Theatre Arts to the United States
where he studies acting at the American
Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco and at the
Michael Chekhov Studio in New YOrk.
Teaching: Since 1989, Mr. Orski has been a
teacher of acting and directing at the State
Academy of Film, Television and Theatre in Lodz.
He has taught many theatre workshops in Poland
(ie. organized by the Centre of Contemporary Art
in Warsaw, Institut of J. Grotwski in Wroclaw,

Studio Theatre, Warsaw, in 1984. This production
was invited to the Festival of Athens, Cultural

Capital of Europe in 1985. Also in 1985, Mr.
Orski's production of Boguslaw Schaeffer's
Audience 3 was awarded ﬁrst place in the Festival
of Contemporary Polish Plays in Szczecin. Other
productions in a variety of theatres followed,
including Oedipus by Sophocles, Endgame by
Beckett, and The Bacchae by Euripides which was
invited to be presented in England in 1994.

