the players speak
'I‘HEIIE were two plays which I dearly
wanted to produce for the folk interested
in dramatics 1n Delhi—“Waiting for Godo
t” and “Look Back in Anger”—
both controverSIal plays which have crea
ted world-wide interest and discussion.
Fortunately, with the co-operation of Thea
tre Workshop and Unity Theatre,
these two plays will follow one another
as I hoped they would.
What of “Godot”? I can only say this—at
new depth, a new facet; and now, having explo every rehearsal we have found a
red the play for many hours, we

as a team must wait for audience reaction—when,
no doubt we shall ﬁnd yet
further new angles.

IN
‘.
धू

'

॰ ' ‘I am lucky that I have an all-male cast with
quite considerable experience.
Jim I ytler as Estragon is the complete lost
soul, and his cackling laughter as he
extracts some humour from his “living?” is a
joy to hear. Lucky, another
completely lost soul, with a shambles for a
brain, allows Pompy Chopra to
demonstrate how degraded a body can become.
As
Overman, you have a clear indication of an egotis for Pozzo, played by Michael
tical maniac. (There are so
Inany_1n real life ‘2). Vladimir, the character
I am playing, tends to be optimistic,
but his weakness is such that even the lost menta
lity of Estragon smothers him.
Last, but by no means least, “The Boy” playe
d by Debabrata (Bachchoo) Roy—
the messenger from that
it were, on the brink? Or is he just terriﬁed that
he has had to descend from
a higher plane of life, to tell the waiting world that, whilst
there is abject despair
in our hearts and minds, “whether we like it or not—a
t this place at this moment
of time, all mankind is us”, and no matter—T
HERE IS ALWAYS ANOTHER
TOMORROW.
I hope you will at least enjoy what you see and hear
and that it will give
३
you, like us, something to think, and talk about.

दृ.

’
.i
L

-

“M

.

elusive character “Go

dot”—what is his SyIIlbOI—aS he
stands terriﬁed—“of the shouts—the roars
—is he a lead to a new life, trembling
as

के

I. कूँ

नद्ररर्द्धदृ

प्रतिष्ठान

७

{—«Hl " l Li 5“

३"
VLADIMIR

THIS strange Play at a ﬁrst reading appears to be much ado about nothing.
Yet
it has been our experience that the more you study it the more you get out
of
it. I don’t think this can be achieved merely by reading it—certainly not at
one
reading. It is a Play that has to be played, and with great sympathy; and
we
sincerely hope we shall be able to convey to you its hidden depths. Much of
the
dialogue seems nonsensical and pointless at ﬁrst sight, and much seems repetitive.
But the Play portrays a little slice of the lives of some very ordinary men who are
really up against it. You watch them react to the tragedy of their lives—and from
their point of view the futility of life—in almost every emotional mood. Their
circumstances are such that there is very little they can do about it; simply wait for
an end to it all. Underlying all their movements and words is their own awareness
of their desperate plight, and every word has a trenchant meaning, whether they are
in a state of despair, or angry at themselves or with each other or their fate, or
whether they are trying to cheer themselves up with a bit of harmlessfun. Vladimir,
it is true, takes a more hopeful view of life, but usually fails in the attempt to give
a practical turn to his well-meaning optimism. Estragon is a conﬁrmed and unashamed pessimist. It has been greatfun rehearsing this Play, and I hope you will
enjoy watching it as much as we enjoy playing it.

E STRAGON

T"

a}
३ "'३

