Brief History of Giants Movement in Agra
The “GIANTS” Sun rose in the Agra sky on the 12th February, 1976. The
inauguration was done by Film Star Dilip Kurnar alongwith Saira Bano. World Chairman
Nana Chudasama presented Charter. The Giants members set upon themselves in
ﬁnding the problems of the Agra people and once found they started with a hang in
solving them.
The Vaccination Centre of Giants Group of Agra is one of the best running in
town. There is arrangement of almost all the important vaccines like Polio, Triple
Antigen. ECG. and Small-Pox and all these Vaccines are being give FREE OF COST.

The group organised “CHANCHAL NITE” and sent Rs. 15,000/- to the
Govt. for their help towards Andhra Cyclone & Flood Reliefs.
Sewing Machines 'worth Rs. 11,600/- were 'donated to the Police Welfare

Club. This fund was raised by organising “NUTAN NITE”. In that function, renowned
stars like Rajendra Kumar, Amjad Khan, Nutan, Gayatri, Neeta Mehta and many
others were present.

Through the proceeds of “KALYANJI ANA1\DJI NITE” Rs. 51,000/- was
donated to Army Welfare, Rs. 20,000 to a Patient for kidney transplantation and sewing
machines worth Rs. 6000/- donated to Police Welfare Club.

The Group supported a poor student in the Medical College by giving him a
scholarship of Rs. 250/- pet month. The boy has already completed M. B.
B S.
The year 1982 is the year of Family Planning for G;ants, in the beginnin
g
of the year the ﬁrst laproscopic family planning Camp in Agra was
arranged by our Group
and 400 operatious were done. 800 more opertions have been
done till now and an
educative ﬁlm on family planning is presented by the Group to the
Distt. Hospital.
Muqabla-e-Qawali brought us a proﬁt of Rs. 70,000 which
is to be utilised
in different social service projects.

Establishment ofthe ﬁrst Eye Bank of U. P. in Agra is one
of the noblest

works which could be done till now.

After death, except eye no part of the body can

be reused. If this eye is . transplanted to blind person he can see
this beautiful world

again.

Besides, the Group donated Rs. 11,000 to families of Police
Jawans and l 1 ,000
to families of P. A. C. Jawans who gave their life in encounters.

As far as cultural activities are concerned the

Group sponsored awards in

Bhatkhande Sangeet Competition and Akhil Bhartiya Sangeet
Pratiyogita.

The Group

has sponsered the great play of BOmbay’s Awani Rangmanch’s
‘Basanti Bua Ka Doodh
Bhat’ an adaptation of Arnold Wesker’s ‘Chicken Soup
with Barley’ directed by
Sri R. M. Singh.

In future also the Group will always be prepa
red to serve humanity whatever,
wherever needed.
With best wishes,

Dr. Aroon Kulshreshtha

Piasidem

