३Tradinng Hitsfor a stage \
Many are
choosing to
की
replace the stress
and monotony of
~~ corporate jobs
with t he

excitement of
t heatre
PARSHATHY J NATH

Crazy night shifts, deadlines
and monotony, are just some
of the reasons why many are

migrating from the corporate
life to one ﬁlled with light and
sound. ‘ While few straddle
both worlds — corporate and
theatre — with ease, others »
choose to move to. the stage
Vinodhini Vaidynathan quit chemical engineering to take up theatre
full-time. But both agree that
working in theatre gives them ﬁnancially to my family. I got job with a chemical and en- however, does not pay well,
a high).
'
into corporate work because gineering conglomerate to warns Vinodhini. “It is always
Dharani Dharan shudders it was lucrative, but my per- train in acting at Koothu-P- better to have another profes—
as he remembers his time in sonal life was destroyed,” she. Pattarai and Theatre Nisha, sion in hand. Then you do it
the corporate world. The pay says,adding that the stress al- and has been involved in the- for sheer passion and won’t
was good, he wore branded most led to a breakdown. atre for the last 13 years. be pressurised for money. At
clothes and his mother was That’s when she shifted , tom. “Anything—thatr-uses capital- times, the full-timers tend to
proud of him, . but “... only I Coimbatore, endedi‘h‘er 10— ism as its mainstay, stresses take their work for granted,
knew I was bleeding inside. year corporate stint and you out. When you act, you but part-time professionals
You are just one among the joined the Helen 0’ Grady become someone else and amaze you by putting their
herd there,” he says. He got team as a Master Trainer. “1 that is therapeutic.”
heart and soul into a
his placement during a cor- am breathing again. Money
Even people who saw the- production. For them, these
porate job fair that sold jobs does not matter if you cannot atre as a stepping stone to hours in theatre are precious
and dreams.
enjoy it.”
ﬁlms have returned to the because they are doing a
Theatre saved his life,
Chennai-based Vinodhini stage. Anand Sami, who acted mundane job at other,times.”
claims Dharani, who now _Vaidynathan also chucked a in ﬁlms such as Lens and Pas—
Rajiv Krishnan of Perch
runs a theatre company
senger; says theatre is more agrees, “One has to negotiate
called Uruveli in Coimbatore.
open. “Everyone knows what the slippery slope of ﬁnance
He wears a veshti and shirt, The corporate world
the script is all about. In in theatre. We pay our actors
much to his mother’s disif you have a small when we take up a project.
‘ cinema,
pleasure. “I am in the process is encouraging
role, the director does not Unlike Europe, here there is
of becoming an artiste, and I employees to attend
think it is important for you no government subsidy. We
feel happy again,” he explains.
' to know the entire script. ”
get just enough to sustain
theatre
workshops
Another person who be—
Anand quit the corporate ourselves.”
lieves theatre saved her when
life afterjob hoppingbetween
“Each one has their own
corporate life had swalloWed
10 companies in three years, path,” says Bangalore-based
her up is ’Mansi Agarwal, a _
and joined the Chennai- Vikram Sridhar, who also exCoimbatore-based
theatre
based theatre group, Perch.
plores storytelling through
person. “I had to contribute
As fulﬁlling as it is, theatre, theatre. “There is an in-

as a stress bu$ter ५

creased audience space. The
corporates-turned-theatre
practitioners are able to Win
over a young audience. That is
good to see, especially when
people keep saying ‘theatre is
dead’.”
.
“Any job that curbs creativity tends to be monotonous,”
believes
Hemalatha Swaminathan, a
theatre person and a creative
art therapist, who conducts ‘
workshops
in corporate
spaces. “I think that’s why
people take the extreme step
of quitting their jobs. But if
they introduced once—a—week
workshops, stress levels reduce. Theatre also lends itself
beautifully to team bonding
and leadership in a fun and .
interesting way.”
The corporate world too is
waking up to this trend, and
employees are being encour—
aged to attend theatre workshops as a stress buster. But
V. Balakrishnan (Bala), of
Theatre Nisha, has his reservations. “Theatre is not some
kind of medicine. There is a
certain snob appeal. The
manager in the upper echelon
tells the employees to dabble
in theatre games that are like ' parlour games, sold under the
name of a theatre workshop. .

There

is

no

long—term

beneﬁt.”
Balakrishnan believes that
this has also changed the way
theatre has been consumed.
He feels that people are more
interested in ﬁlling the hall
and thereby compromising
on the quality of theatre.
“Content is being changed to
appeal to the lowest common
denominaton and the quality
falls to the level of television
serials. Theatre is being sold
more than being done,” he in-'
sists.
/

