A young man Chiristy, who in a quarrel kills his father with a spade. Fearing
arrest flees, seeks refuge in a shebeen, outside a village Mayo. On hearing his
deed, people at treat him as a hero. Impressed Pageen, daughter of the
shebeen owner falls in love with him, breaking her engagement with Shawn. A
widow Quin, a husband murderer and children killer, looking for a second
husband, proposes Christy. But Christy prefers Pageen. Christy participates in
the village games and sports and sweeps all the prizes to his basket. He is
glorious now, a so called playboy, coming from the western world. Suddenly
his father appears. Pageen feels deep disappointment because he has done
nothing like brave. She insults him. Christy, finding his heroic image destroying,
attacks his father again. Everybody, now seeing murder before their eyes, turns
against him to tie, in order to hand over to police. Old Mahon, Christy's father
appears again live and unties his son. They return to their village.
This play was first performed in Dublin in l 907.

Play in a satire, a brilliantly successful comedy. We try to break the head of so
called father of Cruelty, but it reborn In the play, all the farcical elements
comment on the pathetic situations of the displaced societies are looking for a
legend to survive with dignity. The religion is not their solution. The father, the
care person is so irresponsible to their needs, brings a relation to home like an
obiect, dead to sense human needs and feelings. Father, the system to protect,
is ignorant to the dreams and desire of their children. Religion, overloads their
stale characters and episodes, which has no sense for them, so, a community,

living in an adverse situation, away from law defines heroism in a different style.
They fancy those, who break the law, social morals with violent actions. They
Adere those, who are dreadful and fear to law. They enioy living in a fantasy,
but they are not criminals. Hearing the deed of murder may be brave but
looking it happening before their eyes is a dreadful crime. 50, they decided to
hand over Ch risty to the law.
The idea behind choosing, "The Playboy of the western world" is to satisfy the
dramatic desire of students, to act with excitement. The play has grown up with
all the warmth and talent of the students. They executed the performance. |
credit them for all success and wish them all a successful Career. Thank to Mrs.
Panna Bharat Ram, Mushtak Kak, all the executives and staff or SRC for their

kind Co— operation.

