summing up My Life........ JOHN MILLINGTON SYNGE
I was born in 1 87l near Dublin. My father was a barrister and landlord. I went
to various local schools and had private tutors till ] 887 when I entered Trinity
College, Dublin, taking my BA. degree in 1892. Meanwhile, I had given a
great deal of music, and in, 1 893, I went to Germany (Partly for holiday), but I

stayed there studying music for nearly a year. I saw that the Germans were so
much more innater gifted with the musical faculties than I was that I decided to

give up music and take to literature instead. I went back to Germany for a few
months to work at the language only, and then on the first day of 1 895 spent six
or seven winters in Paris going back to Ireland for half the year. In ] 898 I went
to the Aran Islands to learn Gaelic and lived with peasants. Ever since then I
have spent part of my life among the Irish-speaking peasantry in various
localities as I am now doing once more. l have the manuscript of a book giving
an account of my life on the Aran Islands, which Mr. Alkin Mathews has
promised to publish shortly. During the last ten years I have written a certain
number of short articles and reviews for various papers, but my first real success
was with two little plays - Riders to the sea and The Shadow of the Glen, which
were played in Dublin and also in London ( March ] 904) where they were well
received. Since then I have given up Paris and give all my time to writing for the
little theater we have in Dublin. I hope to have another play ready here before
very long. -SYNGE (Sept. ] 905 in a letter to friend Synge died in ] 909.
works :

Riders to the sea ( 1 903) : a One-Act play.
The Shadow of the Glen ( ] 905) : a One-Act play.
The well of the saints ( ] 905 ) : a Three-Act play.
The Playboy of The western world ( ] 907) : a Three-Act play.
The Ti n ker’s Wedding ( 1 9 ] 0) : a Two-Act play.

Deirdre of the sorrows ( ] 91 0) : an incomplete play in three acts.
When the Noon has Set : First Published in the Collected Works of Synge
in l 96 8 .

