Director's Note

We are proud that our Mysore is known for its cultural vibrancy. Rangayana from past 17 years is actively
involved in this vibrant cultural process and has planned and executed many notable programmes which are
hailed as historical documents. Most important among these is the popular Bahuroopi National Theater Festival.
This festival is being organised every year from past ﬁve years. It has brought prestige to Mysore. Bahuroopi
festival is always organised revolving around a major theme. Like wise this year's central theme is ‘ Desi Culture'.
World is in a rat race. Our researches and intense fast growth of information technology is narrowing our concept
of World. Our country has opened all its doors to the new policies of globalization. We perceive the onslaught of
new waves. in the light of this new attraction we are forgetting the importance of preserving and developing of.
Desi culture which is a part of our life style is becoming extinct. Handicrafts, indigenous medicine, food
habits and
other such things are being threatened by the new inﬂuences. Before forgetting such life style, it is important
to
draw the best of our Desi culture and to nurture it. We have to take the responsibility of organizing,
supporting all

the activities related to Desi culture.
With this as background Rangayana has organised this year's theater festival. Festival
has programmes of
different forms. For the ﬁrst time Bahuroopi festival is being extended to the rural
area. Folk and street plays are
organized in more than thirty villages.
'
This year's National Seminar is organised on ‘lndigenous culture - Post-mo
dern context' Experts from different
corners of the country are participating in this seminar. The vision behind
all these activities is to see that
Bahuroopi is going to be the spring board for developing meaningful interacti
on about Desi culture and to spread,
the love of Desi culture in the people.
it is not easy to organise a National Theater Festival. It needs
support from everybody. As usual District
administration, Zilla Panchayat, Private Institutions, Sponsorers, Amateu
r Theater troupes and theater activists
of Mysore have extended their valuable support.
मरे
३
Rangayana extends its gratitude to Hon. Chief Minister of Karnat
aka (President, Ranga Samaja), Dept. of
Kannada & Culture, Finance Dept and to the members of Ranga Samaja.
The service rendered by the artists of Rangayana and Rangaki
shora, students of Bharatiya Ranga Shikshana
Kendra, Teachers and administrative staff is noteworthy. Curator
H. S. Umesha and Mitha Mishra have executed
their festival responsibilities cornrnendably.
it is my duty to remember the cooperation given by the media for
the success of the festival.
I like to extend my gratitude to all those who are with us.

A. G. Chidarnbara Rao Jambe
Director

Ra ngayana

