'व्याक्शाष्ठि ही आजु' ध्याठं दृद्रीद्भठेठठछध्याठं wagons; छोफ्टीत्यं meman टकुँथ्वछॐरुच्वंटठेएठॐ
ठंक्वलंज्जाव्यंज्जागिटहुं. ज्जाक्शाटशांश्लीक्यटआँ व्यंब्जेथैप्टआँख्याडं deﬁed drawon बुछंव्यंठछस्नाछंडंछॐठधू
थ्वहैद्भऊँष्ट्रठटुटठे. mm” 5.96 ठछह्मल्लीजेदृर्दलंहे ल्ठछटठठंटठं च्छुव्यंब्धध्ये magmas छंव्यंठछत्माटहूं deems?
wean प्याक्तिद्रप्लांधू ट्याप्टछट्यठठंहैटॐ. व्यंएडंखुआंठठे diaede swam टाँदुध्याल्लव्यंलंहे म्बंछिलेहँनुब्धटडंछ
टठेष्टदृड्डेठई स्लापिद्रॐटुछंक्कव्यं augments” 03mph व्यंडंट्टाठं 'छठठकु2 campgme sea ज्जारुच्छीदृचूंछंठदृहै
टदुरुबैर्ड्सठच्छेश्चिधु, awash dramon टहुँटठछॐष्टटठंऊँॐनुट्यू foe;sz टदुध्याटुद्रॐठटुत्ये. छाँरुछंव्यंलं
am were? आठकुठदृ व्यंआंदृव्रश्या कंल्ठबुइझेझू छलंनुछंदुत्काश्विडटुलं. डब्बू हृछेटठटाछच्वं व्यंछेदुडंव्यंव्यंट्यू

5336335923 छव्यंदृत्रेदृब्यू saga, msg#33943. add sad बंटु बुडैध्याठड्डेटू was} masses
wasqu दृज्जैव्यंस्थ्यटठं द्भाश्यशुव्यआंथैस्कृटब्जेथू. e9an स्थ्यठज्जाटठं आटु uoﬁaoan $0236 (जिजा:
wands जिन्हें खी व्यं०23८२305३ ढाँछाष्ठिष्णलंहे छछटालंझूटाँ animosity. cinemas दृप्र१८तं:प्रजिप्रभी
हीछंब्जेबु डंदृचूं warts}: व्यंठछटब्जेटठं Gama-3 क्याटठेट्टाडंटाआंनुच्छच्चिथू व्याध्यादृदृलंहे च्छील्जीछिटइं खाठकु बंबू

darted)“ डंदृॐॐख्या ठकुंध्याबूद्भऊँष्ट्रठउदुत्ये. add om ठठेल्ठटूइप्रेलंटु न्धीझंहेम्माछंदृबैआठं) shows कंल्ठदु
ठॐडंबु ewe: soc-3 ष्टाथ्वकुछंठदृहै ठदृदृटॐडं व्यंहृह्मादांथ्वीॐटठंनु खाक्रूॐद्भट्ठेद्रठटुत्ये. can 6359033635953

@239 कंटब्वेल्ठछछंनु Saints? 300:3 sedge 092533 madame” प्याब्जेदृ timed? 23080330235
ख्याछध्याडूटाटुऱदृ was ado sorts} टठंआंदृझेलंहे कंबु excomng खाऊँव्यंनुत्येध्याआं dam sad

व्यंआँदृबँछडं ऊँआं ध्वंकीड्डगृटऊँॐक्षाव्यंट्यू (Smart त्येटदृॐव्रॐडटुत्ये. cart व्याकुब्बद्राआँ डब्बू डंड्यूल्य
छछल्ठआंठटुटहुँ.

Yahudi ki Ladki is a narration of Romans' tyranny over poor helpless
Yahudies the Jews. All this tyranny has in it, the main role of the fanatic
Roman Peshwa Brutus; On the other side is Azra the honest Jew
Businessman who bearing the tyranny of Roman has turned an old man; but
still he does not hate the Romans but tries to change the behaviour of
Romans. Marcus the son of Peshwa falls in love with Hanna the young
daughter of Azra. By hiding his identity he lures her but is not able to hide his
reality fora long period. Knowing about her reality Hanna takes him as to be a
deceiver and takes the case of deceit to the court of the king. Azra knows that
the appeal of her daughter against the Roman prince will not be entertained
so he tries to hold his daughter back. Marcus is the deceiver but the king
declares Hanna a liar and issues the order that both Hanna and her father
Azra be burnt alive. The helpless Azra reminds Burtus of the event of 16

years ago when the whole Rome was set on ﬁre under the order of Nero.
The whole city was burning in ﬁre and Azra rescued King‘s 6 month old
daughter from the burning palace and raised her as his own daughter. Brutus
realizes that he was wrong.

