क्या"
5,,

८२८53 दृछंड्डा९९छंएँ) abod ठेब्जीदृछदृछंव्यंठआं swam-5 ‘ ééozsi,’ लं cameos र)जिहुँप्राअं४ठी
above: ८२८5० वृधुॐब्बर्द त्काडहेठंज्जापिटहूँज्जा, ८53८3१०53८5० डंच्छी९३ र्कठठेथ्यलं ठठेएँटइंव्यंव्यंहूर्डहे saga)

sesame

ssmsoas 3353653603: ठीप्रा१)७९९स्का९न्या८ war-soap”.

८२८53 6:2me

क्षुॐहैंम्नटुद्राछं ३८3०३७३१३८3. cause we désosa ठछंश्या बंध्या. case ष्टड्डदृदृठध्याछंदृहं ।११११ई
लं'धैठॐ. 6%ng éﬁéaazsgrteéo हा'व्यंल्ठदृ च्छीडबु छंडंल्यछ क्षाटठंव्यंइछलंद्गीहिएंनंक्ष्यदुर्व्यरु छरुहैध्या sea:ch
व्वाछडि ब्बूटाटुव्यंछेठंर्द ट्याहीटॐङटुठं. खी च्चिरुह्यून्नछक्वच्वंटड़ेछॐझू 6333629519 goof-3p ख्याइंदुछंदूंछछदुड्डेडहैहूँ.
डंठष्णुटठेष्ट ९5१८5 ठंठक्तिक्नॉदृग्रंठधू ठंस्कृहूँश्र्व०च्वं3 डंव्यंनु९८ uodzweértdracéai mémaa ध्याहुंछछंदृछछाहुँहाँहै
maze» छुछठंञ्जटुम्बंनुडटुठं. wad टठेरुव्यंठहुँच्छे tea-ad c3353) 533329 ego-3 Noe’tramrteé
ध्याकृप्टछज्जागिर्व्य. mate owes: टठेष्टव्यंलं टडेदृड्डाटठेनुक्यणिदृ द्धाआंएव्यंध्वं हश्यास्तादँठेदृह्मझूथ्यूदृ ध्वंनुछठईंॐरुध्या
व्यंब्जेलोछरुस्थ्यब्जीस्लिं व्यंच्वंखीदृदृर्वटनुटु डंठंक्शाच्छेटऊँज्जा०णि९, १5०डेव्यं3ज्जागि हीठंठछलंडंध्या बुडेध्याष्टा

छब्बूछंछेल्ठआंक्कव्यं ९3०छंट5८रदृटु rad: र्द्धध्याछटऊँक्कबुंटदृ. dome—at), अव amede ठह्यठदृरु ads-o2, छाठंत्यं
टठेरुव्यंव्यंव्यंड्यू हड्डीव्यंत्येरु ज्जाॐछैज्जाझुथ्वीठऔठहुं.

The play is based upon ‘Typists' written by Mure Shisgal in 1966.
Although it is basically a British play yet it depicts the same human
situations for the people of India who are destined to pass most part of
their ‘Iife' in identical conditions.
‘Typists' is a story of two typists. It is the story of their daily life as also of
the whole life span. So it is their one day routine and also the whole life
affair. Both the typists, Sapan and Ratna grow old, doing the same
monotonous and the routine work throughout their life span. During this
long period, they come to love each other. Weave their own dreams,
wish to remain associated with their kith and kins and strive to achieve
progress. There is a mixture of utmost grief and boundless pleasure in
their life.
This play, while exposing the layers of human emotions of the men who
are compelled to go through the same rut day by day or who eventually
try to ﬂee from the monotony, attains a stage where it becomes the
responsibility of person concerned to decide his own role and prepare
his own resume in life.

