33३८3 waves-923230 $32363 टठव्यंनुस्सादृ £36933 ऊंव्यंएट्टात्यपँर्कद्भाआंव्यंछंनु ठाठंटब्जेछंण्डदृ Seang
ﬁDCSOZJCOZSD छंआंप्याव्यं ऊं aims. छैटाटूढ़ऊँप्नॐठा थ्वकुब्लूप्टछ उॐष्टआं १53३ स्लाटूड्डाडटुछंदृइं
’l.

८

///

mde व्यंटऊँबु. जीहाँ, amt-7305712.}; व्यंब्जेडंबु कृद्धाप्टछल्ठछनि दृट्टीहृठंव्यं प्टठेरुटइंव्यं,
rbaea’sozjéowwciodé @3333 may प्पज्जाच्छाक्शा hazards-at अंबुछंश्र्वरुठहुंऊँध्याझू

/

द्धांल्ठछध्याठंटज्जाष्ठच्छाब्वेथू.

I,

स्थिध्याव्लाश्याबुहड्डे छदृदृद्भध्याध्याध्याम्भडदुलं. ems 4.5%qu eSMSJ माई e हुँक्शा लं हैं
\

.

"4/; ‘
3"

आँ है-मत्/हीरा/हैं: .-

बंध' . १लें

ख्याकूदृउँहूँछं

१०55८

हृय८)नि(प्रति व्यंब्धआंबैव्यंछद्रड्डेड़ठडटुटठे. ठंच्वंछदृ) chow (36832.25an033 369336)” abs होति em पै
ठड्डेरुव्यंक्ककुं व्यंछंल्ठआंछंडदुहठे. ठछव्यंब्जेद्रऊटुध्याश्यो०ठा व्यंष्टछेठ छव्यंलंलंहे ठुरुव्यंआडेॐॐठदृहे क्वश्चिद्रॐव्यं व्यंछटठेदृइं
warts-:36” ﬁxaodoodwosgpa’. cauﬁodm छव्यंलंब्जे प्रजा:) wade ठंटीक्शाडटुठदृ.
अरिजित, छुरुव्यंब्धडेठं wart: Souoqﬁrteé mews. ठठछद्रॐटउँरुठठंल्ठपँ ०३०2२ wowrt छबंरुठं
ठटदृव्यंशांदृमँ ८३००८3 ६323 3८३03३ वृंरुच्छी व्यंएउबु त्माल्ठछहेटठंव्यं Smart 633333;; क्लपिलेटऊँध्य use, was:

९३५
रैड़ेदृ

w? है८च्छा :_, I,

व्यंनुडंट्ठे छठठंव्यं

है:.,

\N.

I
/दुहुँ

.८\ Q» _

रू

/

दिव्य-,

~.'<-.\\\.\"\‘-.. 3..१९
८७८

/,,../;ﬂ

६5८3१ व्यंआंटाँ zoom wde ल्ठछद्रड्डेठटउँष्टव्यंल्ठदृलंलंहे टहुँत्काश्याछिडटुठहँ. ह्रठछप्लांब्जेटठेरुटठंल्ठदृ em
ज्जाछंटहुँपिंआंलंहे await ऊंस्वाद्धडटुत्ये. ab some-swag (७त्पारा०ठी(:८हाँ and. छैटाटुहांट्टाव्यंष्टीर्मि

mid ६5०३") सांप्र)डिटाठहुंभि:ज्ञा१ ६5३3८२53 र्डआडटु, कंछक्शाठदु क्शाआंक्कडदुत्ये.

The play Sidhartha is an adaptation of the celebrated novel of the same name
written by Nobel Laureate Hermann Hesse. The story depicts the life of Sidhartha,
a Brahrnin youth and his journey towards self-realization. The Vedas, Scriptures
and his life as a Shramana sanyasin with his friend Govinadan could not quench his
quest for truth. They come across Buddha and his teachings. Govindan becomes a
disciple of Buddha, but Sidhartha decides to resume his journey alone. He comes
across Kamala, a Devadasi and drowns himself in love and passion. Kamaswami,
the typical trader takes him through the dark alleys of amassing wealth and riches.
But from both he learns one lesson, the emptiness of wealth and relationships. It
was Vasudevan an ignorant ferryman who helped him cross the river to the other
bank of love and passion a years back. Now he comes back to the same riverbank
and there he meets the same Vasudevan. But Vasudevan teaches him a new
lesson to listen, to listen to the ﬂowing river. As deeper understanding blossoms in

Sidhartha he ﬂoats and ﬂows.

