Ramkatha Ramkahani
RAMKATHA/RAMKAHANI is a drop in the ocean. The
production was undertaken to give some of the eternal
values propagated in a treatise as ancient as the

It opens in Calcutta this November 1995 with a
multifarious cast of dancers, actors, singers, musicians,

acrobats, mime artists and professional backstage staff.

Ramayana a new, pragmatic vision, to spread the

message of hope even in the darkest hours. And to
rediscover our values that have spread the glory of India
all over the globe. We hope that the audience will find
a chord that touches their heart — be it in the sheer
poetry of the epic or the solace and comfort it provides
to the parched soul.

The Background
Padatik began work on RAMKATHA/RAMKAHANI with
its Kathak troupe but in the last two years it grew into a
multi-dimensional production, with inputs from
researchers and scholars and with an ever—expanding
team that now embraces 45 members.

Choreography
The choreography by Chetna has made many
innovations in the classical Kathak form and used the
Kathak rhythmic phrases in a novel manner to
communicate the moods and the narrative. Mime and
folk artists and acrobats are woven into the multilayered fabric to give RAMKATHA a diversity. Music
composed primarily by Debasish Sarkar and Anand
Gupta also contains inputs from many other sources
ancient & modern, and also Western and Indian. Besides

classical ragas, various other forms like Folk, Western,
Kajri, Thumri, Ghazal, Kawali and Rap have been

imaginatively used.

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

The Director’s Notes:
Shyamanand Jalan
Do I believe in God ? This is a question I have
often asked myself. Though there is no clear
answer, yet I have a vague feeling that I do.
Not in Rama or Krishna or Vishnu or Shiva,

but in an unknown force which controls us. I
know I am not a sovereign entity. And since I
do not know who or what controls me, why be
desperate about it or why lose the will to live
the life which I must ‘2 Why not assume that I
am sovereign, responsible for my own actions

and destiny. Yet, have a belief to sustain me
during adversity that what will be, will be and
I do not really have the power to change it. I
have the consciousness of this life time and I
know what I like and I don’t, what hurts me
and what pleases me. I should do that which
makes me happy, or which I think will make
me happy and leave the results on the fate, on
that mysterious force, on that God.
But I wish I did believe in Rama, that I did love
him, that I had faith in him. This would have
made life simpler. Then it would be natural to
emulate him and acquire justice, love, sense of
duty and fairplay and all other virtues which
he symbolises; instead of acquiring them as
practical tools for happpy existence. It would
have brought harmony in life.

My mother tried to make me believe in Rama.

Though she did not succeed, yet in moments of
depression, fear and despondence I repeat the
name again and again within myself, just as

she had taught. And somewhere, deep inside I
feel that it will help me in tiding over the
difficulties. And strangely, it in fact does. How
or why, I do not know. But surely it does.
This production is an attempt to generate that
faith and to tell others the need for it and how
wonderful it is an emotion to have.

There is a thing called Indianness. The
difference is the same as between Bharata and
Aristotle, ‘Rasa’ and Catharsis, Hinduism and
Christianity.

And between HAHK and Schindler’s List or
Shakuntalam and the Greek tragedies.

That Indianness is found in Kajri, Thumri and
Madhubani paintings, in the women singing and
the girls stealing the shoes of the bridegrooms
as a part of the marriage festivities.
It is very difficult to define that Indianness, yet
we feel it all the time, when women sob in a
Hindi commercial movie, in the informality of
the Durga Puja celebrations and in people trying
to speak with Zarda Pans in their mouth.

