‘Nakhra’ is not flirtation nor has a ‘tawaif’

People behind the show

been a prostitute.

Why has classical dance not created a sizable
audience despite its refinement, grandness and
traditions?

CHETNA jALAN blends in her work all the unique
qualities of a renowned Kathak exponent, an
innovative choreographer capable of fusing different
styles, as well as a noted actress of serious plays.

Is it because it has not moved with the time or
changed sufficiently?

Or because it communicates only to a very elite
section which I am still trying to enter?
Though initially indifferent, I have increasingly
been drawn by the grandness and the majesty
of the classical dance? And yet I feel that I
have not been able to rise enough to receive or
appreciate all that it has tried to convey?
This production tries to explore the vast range
of classical dance for the facets which I and
people like me can receive and enjoy.
Which is the theatre I must now do ?
And I am not talking about that theatre which
is beneficial to the Society. .

Currently Director of the Padatik Dance Centre, she

received her formal training in Kathak from the most
renowned gurus of the Lucknow Gharana, Pandit Ram
Narayan Mishra, Pandit Birju Maharaj and Pandit Vijai
Shankar.
Chetna’s mastery over Kathak and her innate
understanding of other dance forms resulted in her
selection as a jury member for the International Ballet
Competition twice: in Moscow in 1985 8: 1987, and in
jackson Mississippi in 1994. She has attended the
International Dance Symposium in Seoul in 1992 to
dance and hold lecture-dernonstrations. Her
performances have been critically acclaimed in India and
abroad. Famed for her “abhinaya”, Chetna Jalan’s
inherent acting talent received formal discipline at the
American Conservatory Theatre, San Franscisco, and in

Must I continue to do what I want regardless
of the popular response it will invoke, or work
out the one which has a chance of appealing to
larger sections of people and yet be satisfying
to me ?
The theatre in which an average Indian from

any background or level can walk in and enjoy
himself — a theatre which may or may not
impress, may or may not instruct but which
does entertain.

And what could be that theatre ? It could be
the ‘total’ theatre — with drama, dance and
music; it must be the theatre which touches
emotions whether it imparts a thought, an idea

Stanford University, where she did a course in Mass
Media in 1969-70. Thereafter she was a teacher in the
Ustad Ali Akbar’s music college in San Francisco for a
year
Ramkatha is a subject very close to Chetna Jalan’s heart.
In this production she combines her histrionic
capabilities with her dancing talent to present a
choreography that explores form, content and narrative
technique in a way that has been seldom attempted in
India.
SHYAMANAND jALAN has been associated with the
modern theatre movement in India for nearly four
decades.

or not.
Ram Katha Ram Kahani is a product of
emotional responses. Some people have met
regularly for a stretch of time and have
searched for a form in a spirit of joy and
celebration. They have copied and borrowed —
regardless of any inhibition or consideration,
while constantly evolving and changing. They
have retained what they liked and threw away
what they did not.

But they have enjoyed themselves thoroughly
and hope that they can impart some of it to
those who see it. There is nothing intellectual
about it. It is emotional all the way — with
apologies here and there.

Known for productions that are relevant and serious,
his work is largely experimental, involving psychosociological studies and innovative stylisations like the
use of cinematic slow-motion and freeze shots in _
theatre .

Shyamanand is at home in both Hindi and Bengali, and
has worked with prominent Bengali stage personalities
like Sharnbhu Mitra, Rudraprasad Sengupta and

Sabitabrata Dutta. His “Ashad Ka Ek Din” was a
revolution in Hindi Theatre. His Hindi productions of
Badal Sircar’s “Evarn Indrajit” and “Pagla Ghora” drew
critical attention for the playwright at the national level.
“Shakuntala” in 1980 brought Shyamanand together with

Smt. Girija Devi and Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra in a

