PUPPET DANCE: Like many other countries of the
world, Bangladesh also has a centuries-old tradition of

puppet dancing. Various puppets or wooden dolls, with
mobile limbs, hang from the ceiling of the stage by
threads which are not visible to the audience, and these
puppets are manipulated by means of these threads to
narrate a story, usually in song form. On one of side of
the stage sits the narrator and musicans. The dialogue

supposed to be spoken by the puppets are in the form
of a piping sound emitted by a mouth instrument, which

is “ interpreted" by the narrator.
In our programme, our human artistes play the roles of
the puppets . Their body movements are exact imitations

of the wooden puppets and the story is enacted and
narrated in the same manner in which an actual puppetdance using wooden puppets is held. The present

programme is based on a folk-tale’f’rom Bangladesh,
named “Gunai Bibir Kessa" meaning “The story of Gunai
Bibi" .
The story is unfolded in this manner:1: Gunai‘s childhood and growth.

2: Brother and sister playing. There is an argument
between the two brothers regarding the marriage of their
sister Gunai. One of the brothers wants to give the sister
in marriage to an honest, hard-working young man
named Tota Mia. But the other one, having been
promised a monetary reward, wants to give Gunai Bibi in
marriage to Tota Mia's uncle, who is the scoundrel of the
village.
3: However, honesty triumphs-Gunai Bibi is married to
Tota Mia. Then starts the conspiracy. Tota 's uncle Dulu
Mia sends his nephew to jail on false charge and
proposes marriage to Gunai Bibi. At one stage Gunai Bibi

falls into a desparate situation.
4: Gunai asks a boatrnan of the village to help her cross
the river to go to town and get her husband released.
But the boatrnan tries to get her for himself and proposes
to marry her. She escapes from there, and comes back
home.

5: Some peoole of the village want to try her in a“
peOple's court" because rumours were being spread
about her character. But Gunai protests against these
rumours and runs away from the place. She takes the
boat herself to go and rescue her husband from Jail and
comes back With her husbnd after and facing all odds
and difficulties
‘

