On Brecht
Brecht is one of the most important and original dramatists of this century, and a
most disturbing one as well, for his works seek to jolt settled notions in both the
theory and practice of drama. Whether these be notions of originality in art; or of
narrative and story telling; or of psychology, characterization and acting; or even of
stage space, design, and of actor - audience relationships.
While his most well known plays - Mother Courage, Good Woman of Setzuan,
Galileo, and Caucausian Chalk Circle belong to a remarkable period between 1937
& 1945, Brecht had been writing continuously since 1918 and by 1931 had
produced a theory of an ‘epic form’ which was to influence twentieth century
dramatic theory greatly. The founding of the Berliver Eusernble in 1949 influenced
dramatic performance to a striking degree as well.
Brecht’s ‘manifesto’ on the epic theatre has what artistic rnanifestos often have- a
rejection of his predecessors, and their collection, sometimes arbitrarily, into a
‘tradition’. The most decisive move in the manifesto is an attack on the dominant

naturalisrn of European drama after Ibsen. Brecht’s arguments can be written in a
series of now famous contrasts. The drama he opposes ‘consumes’ the spectator
and her/his capacity to act; the drama he proposes awakens the spectator's
capacity to act - the drama he opposes presents ‘experience’ into which the

spectators are drawn, and which they, too, experience along with the character the drama he proposes presents points of view, and even many points of view on a

single action; the drama he opposes makes one scene exist for the sake of
another, in a causal chain - the drama he proposes makes each scene exist for
itself; and, finally, the drama he proposes shows human beings producing

themselves in the course of their actions and, therefore, being open to alteration
and contradictions - the drama he opposes takes men & women as given, and their

actions an inevitable.
Naturalist ‘illusion’ or verisimilitude is the target here, that sort of illusion that
absorbs both dramatist and audience in such a way as to exclude direct
commentary, direct address, alternative points of view. In terms of European
dramatic theory, Brecht is not calling for an ‘invention’ of these tradition, so much
as their restoration for the chorus, the narrator, and the soliloquoy, have been such
conventions in Greek and Shakespearean traditions.
In order to show men and women producing themselves and not discovering

themselves in their environment, Brecht developed methods of writing, producing,
and acting that underlined this. The play was written in a way that the audience

