Strangely Familiar
It may seem strange but in one way the plays of Bertolt Brecht seem to be very
familiar to the Indian audience. That is to say that in spite of the linguistic and
cultural barriers and the difference in Western and Indian traditions, Brecht’s plays
do not seem alien to an average Indian. The audience, as has been seen from time
to time, relates easily to the content and form of Brecht’s dramatic work. The
reason behind this, probably, could be that the elements of drama and stagecraft
and the style adopted and developed by Brecht has been familiar to the Indian
audience since ages. Although classical Indian critics and masters did not use the
term ‘aIienation effect’, yet this ‘aIienation effect’, this ‘verfremdung’, was used with
telling effect not only in classical Sanskrit plays but also in a wide variety of Indian
folk theatre. As for the ‘epic theatre’ of Brecht - employing a dramatic structure to
endow the stage with an epic-like quality - even this is present in our old Sanskrit
drama. The use of song and music in plays has also been a constant feature of
Indian theatre.

By this I am not taking away from the greatness of Brecht as a play-wright or his
immense contribution to the stage. However much we talk of his importance as an
innovater of dramatic thought and craft, his competence as a poet, his
revolutionary understanding of man and society, history and politics, still it would
not fully describe Brecht as a theatre - personality of uncommon brilliance. It is not
even possible to do so in such a small piece. What I wish to say is that Brecht
recognised the effectiveness of many elements, styles and techniques being used
since ages and then he evolved his own principles and tested them out in his own

pIays .
As a consequence, when it comes to staging Brecht’s plays, Indian actors and
directors as well as the Indian audience immediately respond to Brecht’s work.
Whether it is ‘The Caucasian Chalk Circle’ or ‘Mother Courage’, ‘The Three Penny
Opera’ or the adaption of Gorki’s novel ‘Mother’ - the plays of Brecht do not
present many problems stylistically or technique-wise. The problems arise when
we come face—to- face with Brecht’s content. Especially, when we take a step
forward and move from a reading of Brecht’s plays to the translating and adapting
of these plays for a performance. At this juncture we come across many pitfalls.

The first thing to keep in mind is that Brecht is among the few play-wrights of the
20th century who have taken up literature and the dramatic art as a means to
understand contemporary reality in order to change it. Writing and staging a play is
only important for Brecht if he can churn up the pool of human society and alter the
state of things. In his hands theatre becomes an arena of social conflict as well as
an instrument to change reality as it exists outside the theatre-hall. It is by

