It is probably this reason why many of Brecht’s major plays, with the exception of
‘The Caucasian Chalk Circle’ or a couple of such plays, have not been staged by
Indian actors and directors. But as time passes and we come nearer to the

situations described by Brecht in his plays - realities dealing with tremendous
social conflict and the tendencies which threaten our social fabric - we find that
Brecht’s concerns are increasingly becoming our own. The violence and terror and
communal hatred witnessed by the Indian people during the recent past has forced
a large number of people to seriously think about the question as to what should
our attitude be in the face of the changing times ? It is not a coincidence that the
play ‘Fear and Misery in the Third Reich’ which focuses on the terrors of Hitler’s
Germany presents before us such violence and terror which we are now
encountering around us in increasing measure. Here we cannot avoid the question
whether we should maintain a ‘silence pregnant with knowledge’ or cry out against
oppress io n’?
On choosing ‘Fear and Misery in the Third Reich’ for adaptation some problems
immediately crop up. For instance, how to present this play which depicts incidents
occurring in Germany more than half a century ago in a manner that the audience
relates to the play and finds a reflection of contemporary reality in it. Fascism in
our country is not emerging in the way it did in Germany. Nevertheless, the
capitalistic forces behind the rise of communal fascism in India during the post 1947 period are very similar to those which ushered - in the Nazi regime headed
by Hitler.

Another, problem relates to the difference in behavioural-patterns resulting from
cultural variations. If we see the episode titled ‘The Jewish Wyife’ we shall realise
that relations and conversations between husbands and wives in India are very
different to those depicted in the play irrespective of the class or section of society
to which husbands and wives may belong. Despite the phenomenal proliferation of
communal tensions such an alienation between husbands and wives is not yet
seen in Indian society. Similarly, when we turn to an episode such as ‘The
Informer’, there too we find that situations prevalent in Hitler’s Germany differ
materially from those prevalent in India. Things have not come to such a pass in
our society that parents begin suspecting their own children of spying and

informing. Yet, the underlying currents of violence and terror are similar to those
being felt in our society today. The problem lies in presenting the episodes in a
‘credible’ manner. Such problems in this epic play arise frequently and even after
having over-come them one feels as if the effort has been inadequate or that the
problems have not been completely solved.

I nspite of all these hurdles in adapting this play, an effort has been undertaken to
give a glimpse to the audience of the pictures of horror and misery painted by

