severe indictment of the ‘master’ race, who in fact, have become a race of servile,

non-thinking people.
History then for Brecht is not a series of dates and battles fought, rather history is
for him the story of human beings as they are affected in their day-to-day lives by a
corroded political atmosphere which changes the nature and complexion of their
relationships. This has always been Brecht’s main concern. How mothers can
behave in a cold unrnotherly manner, how judges can behave like criminals,
criminals like judges, the prostitute like a good woman and vice-versa, the
innocuous little man like a dictator and the reverse. All these c0ntradictions
eventually lead Brecht to finally question, “what constitutes morality 7" Are we
really in a position any longer to define in absolute moral terms “good” and “evil” in
a continuously shifting situation where human beings are constantly on the brink ’?
A disturbing recurrent theme of this play is the fact that it is the younger generation
who increasingly don the uniform of the Fascist forces and join their ranks. The
older generation, brought up on different ideals offer some kind of resistance in the
form of asking questions. This is most clearly seen in ‘Geeta Pravachan’ where the
old dying man, now virtually on his deathbed, questions the attendant priest who is
to perform his last rites. These issues have troubled him for a long time, but which
he has never asked for fear of punishment. “Is this all?” he asks, questioning the
meaning and substance of existence. The next question he raises is -“Does the
Geeta really support war or peace?” “Are all men equal?” The priest himself fears
punishment if he gives an answer, but on being pressured by the dying man to
commit himself, finally replies that religion preaches peace, and that all are equal
in the eyes of God. “Tell that to him”, says the old man, pointing to his young son
dressed in the uniform of a Swayam Sevak - “that’s not what he understands.” The
Priest is silent. The young son, disgusted with his father walks away and the wife,
who has all through been trying to quieten her dying husband finally turns to him
and says “You should not have asked all these questions.” The scene ends with
the wife singing a lullaby to her son in which she laments the course he has
adopted and knows it is futile as it can only lead to his death.
Thus the end is one of immense gloom - the mother sits singing her lament - of the
impending death of her young son - the dying man, her husband will breathe his
last any moment - and the Priest too - as he walks away - is a marked man for

replying to the dying man. The young son will go and inform on him. We are left
with the elemental Earth Mother, who alone survives, if only to sing the funeral
dirge for those who will depart.

The point in adapting this play into the Indian context is not to find exact
approximations of the rise of German Fascism to situations in our own country’s

