Playing Both the Roles
The setting for ‘The Private Life of the Master Race’, focuses upon the
predicament of the individual vis-a-vis society, in a manner that highlights the
sense of growing paranoia. The characters in the play are surrounded by images
of nameless people, their very presence, an infringement of the personal privacy of

the characters in the play. Nowhere is a character left alone, whether it is in the
bedroom, the office or even on the verge of death. Under communist and fascist
regimes, the feeling that “big brother is watching you”, is replaced in a democracy
in which most of the people live in under-privileged circumstances, by the
message, “why should you have any more than us”. Is it the voice of hunger or of
growing fascism that questions the very basis of a democracy?
In the production, the images surrounding the characters are subject to a wide
range of interpretations. Sometimes they observe the action like mute spectators;
at other times they almost echo the feelings of the characters in sympathy, as it
were; while at yet other moments, they merge in with the characters. Images of
these people projected around the characters in the play, do not represent
distanced officials who are constantly watching, but are the common people that
surround us, - people who are part of us, but can also turn against us in a moment,

if necessary, and destroy or devour us if we step out of line. They represent the
masses; their power growing by the moment.
At another level, the projected images play a dUal role - that of participants in the
scenes and counterparts of the characters, and on the other hand as spectators. ln
the latter role they cross the line between the audience and the performers, and
the audience sees them as an extension of itself, observing the action. In this
manner the images take on the actual role of characters in Brecht, being part of the
action as well as observing or commenting on the action. This aspect of Brecht‘s
actor has therefore been separated and ‘removed’ from the performer, and handed
over to the setting. It is this very constantly changing perspective of the “images”
that gives it ambiguity and the capability of moving across “dramatic” barriers into
the universal state of a constant presence.
Nissar A Ilana

