Significantly, all the composers belong to the entire

Folksengs Stop Animal Killing

lomogenous Himalayan region extending from the far east

Dussehra-has, for centuries, been a gory affair in the
tribal area of Lakhamandal in the northern reaches of Dehra

to the north.

Apart from these all important composers a galaxy of
be
corrrrrmrzicatiori experts, dramatists and media people will
participating in an exchange of views and ideas. Interpreters have been provided for the purpose. Guidelines framed
in reterence to the Aduit Education Programme will also be
dealt with, so that they can be acted upon.
It must be noted that the workshop is the first of its
kind in india 3 first organised step towards a fruitful ex-

change of ideas between delegates from dilfering cultures,
both within tribal communities and between urban and
tribal areas. The interaction will it is hoped, provide the

में 1111 district. Buffalo-bai ting is the name of the game.
A village elder starts the semireligious rite with a random
slash of the sword at any part of the buﬂ'alo’s body.

The

others stand around with axes, swords, spears and any other

weapon they can get hold of. As the wounded animal runs
from one side to the other everyone joins in the fun and
games.
.
To quote an eye—witness account of last year’s killing :
Jabbed by pointed sticks, hacked by axes and sword, the
buffalo was chased to a field near the main

temple.

With

an axe] leg trailing behind, the buffalo staggered on through
blo‘w after blow. The black skin parted, yellow-white fat
s'quirined out, blood gushed forth. To the beat of drums
an i inhuman sit‘ieks from the frenzied mob, the terrorised

animal finally fell a victim to man’s momentary insanity.
folk-lore composers with new themes for then compasi-

Trumpets hlared as the mob rushed back to its next victim”

tions, alongside, it will give the urban counterparts an insight
into the ’ conditions prevainng in areas where mass communication has not yet penetrated.

This has been a local festival pastime for centuries. But
three years ago, the Nehru Yuvak Kendra of Dehra Dun
decided to do some thing about it. The youth co-ordinator
Mr. Avdh':sh Kaushal, got tag-titer a band of young men
and tried to dissuade the people from continuing the barbaric
custom. Alternative attractions were. ofﬁred including a;
fireworks display an i sweets donath by a Doon philanthror
pist. Some carrle‘a=‘<.)un but the majority was still hostile
to the, Kendra workers. "i‘n'cre were threats of violence. Also
there was the superstition that if the buffalo Was not killed
the village woul 1 face hardships an ,है epidemics.
But the effort continued, and finally the chief priest of
the temple was won arouni. follk songs were succesfully
applied to educate the tribals against the animal killing. So,

It must be also noted that since the workshop is the

first of its kind, there are borrnd'to‘ be a few shortfalls.
despite our best efforts. But the workshop

is only a begin-

ing of a new process, an experiment. With the experience
and insight we gain in this initiai venture. we hope to keep
moving forward with more workshops of this kind. The
final goal will be enlightenment for all, brought about largely through the creative, V col‘ective efforts of folk-lore
composers and their iik all over India.

while three years ago, 2 J buffaloes were tortured to death in
the 24 villag :s of Lakamanfai, last year only one was killed.

This year,- therc have been no killings. .
~——AVD H E SH - KAU S HAL
Court:sy HINDUSTAN TIMES,
Dated 2nd Nov.’75

