VATWAM Ann om $1er PRODUC‘I‘ION : PRAHLAI) NATAK

.

Progressive xheatre workers group Vatayan of Dehra L‘un canre in to force on :15 AuguSt 39,78 with selective aim. ८ It‘s

Mm no: to provide stage to young boys and. girls who were artive in the varied sphere of literature; Art, Music and Drana ‘and
in det'eiop rational dialogue and ralationship between the artist and society to prowide a social base to their relations,
In the narrow span of ten months Vatayan successfully staged ﬁve plays viz Laash

(based on two stories of subhash

Pant Laash and hi: Atankvadi Ka Ant. Script by Ram Prasa'd _‘Anuj’ and Avdhesh “khan ar. firector: Satish Cland),‘Sche~
iii—tied Caste (writer : Laadi, Diretor : Subhash Pant), Teen Inch upar (based on Nirmal tit-Mia’s Monologue Bedhfjnch upar
me? his essay Lideetsey:

Ek Sansmatean,“Script ८३ Avdhesh Kumar. Director: ‘A'vdliesli‘ltuii a‘r’); ,Nisac‘har? '(hriierlUtral butt,

translation from Bengali by Ram Prasad ‘Anuj’ and - 33133रा (3331५ T5,“ arty, Direction: _ Ashok .Claltraverty), ‘ Teen Tale Ki Nau»
tan k i (writer Bartolt 'Brecsht, Hindi adaptation by Prashant and Rajesh Joshi. Director : Laadi), . V है है I ‘ . ; . , _
,
है, \
Vatayan by its these productions has drawn the Doon’s audience attention towards the existing social problems and

५८1९ givm “aw dimensions, to the eonternporary theatre movement through its original contribution.
३ ३' l.‘

L

. i

J

l

.', i .

:

l

i I; "हु

.

है 1; \i' '

.

.

’i

Vatayan heartly welcomes all the participants ‘ taking part in the workshop of folk lore composers and singers of entire

Hiitralayan belt orgamed by Nel ru Yuvak Kendra and .‘ Directorate of Adult ‘ -Educati’on-,7”Gr)vt. ' of India. We' are staging

our 6th play Prahlad Natak in the honour of these एप्र१1पटा१से, M a ,

WHY PRAHLAD.NATAK?.

>

"'

_ ८३0८2'

'

,i 3

5;,

"

' दृ…

This play was written by (late) Bhawani Dutt the ﬁrst. modern Qarhwali play wright; in 1914 when the ﬁrst world war
was in offing. This play w as proscribed like ‘Andher Nagari’ of Hindi era nakcr Bhartendeu Harish Chandra, by the British
Government.
It’s publiraticn
and staging was tanred
and rtn aired so for sacral years. [yen under these
circumstances, it was published: by ' iShri Krishna~,.}?r’e,ss in, ‘1/930. This ‘ lay is unique even for Hindi, Written in the
Garhwali dialect the play abounds in Folk Music and ‘Folk Songs :lzelongi g to the region. It is really a wonderful play.

, ¸

The credit of discovering this almost lost play, rich in dramatic content, goes to Urmil 'Ihapaliyal

and Shasharik-

B'ahuguna. They also improvised it with Mcc’ern requirerrents ardac‘c'ed their eruditirn and talent, Now Vatay‘an
has presented to the public and feels it’s duty to acknowledge their debts and pays it’s humble regards for mature
standards of the contemporary drama world.
'

V
, _ .
.
’ Ii
.
'
T’he dramatis personea consists of the following:
M/s Manwar‘ “Singh Gcsain, L‘urga I‘raslad Kukreti, Surendra Bhanc’ari, Shreesh Dobhal, Ashok Chakraverty,
Roshanlal Dhasmana, Kuldeep Madhwal, Girish Clandra Ladcni, Farr. Prashad Sunderyal etc.

' '
10 June 1979/9 PM/Nehruﬂram, Dehra Dun.

'

All members of Vatayan
I

-- r

