Akh Di Dehleez/Aankh Ki Dehleez
(The threshold of Perception)

About the Performance
Time marches on in an unwiedly manner. History is writ with a skewed pen.
Many have analysed and proclaimed about the times after they have been long past.
That's easy enough. Being enmeshed in the web of subjectivity is quite another matter.
How many of us—the ruler in his tower, the worker at his workplace, the journalist in his
column, the man in the street-how many of us are able to see the march of time for
ourselves.
The poems which are part of the montage 'AKH DI DEHLEEZ/‘AANKH Kl DEHLEEZ'
have been written by various Punjabi poets. They explore various dimensions of the
human tragedy that has gripped us for over a decade. They present an insight to agony.
anguish and pain of our times. They hold a mirror for us to regard ourselves and the
meaningless and cruel world we have created for ourselves. They smile at our pitiful
attempts to deceive ourselves. They warn us of the consequences of our follies of today and
Juxtaposed together they offer a kaleidoscopic
that we will have to answer to posterity.
view of history in the making. History not only of Punjab, but of our times. They talk
of times past and times to come. They speak of our children and of young people, of

rulers and the ruled, our alienation and degradation.

Above all they speak of the violence

that stalks the streets and into our homes. Not that of blood and gore, but of the
violence that the system in which we all function, perpetrates, such that it strikes some
and leaves others untouched, apathetic and dehurnanised.

The rendering of poetry is punctuated by an ever-changing collage of body and
sound images supported by evocating patterns of sound and rhythm which continue to ebb
and ﬂow over the senses even as the words of the poems bombard the consciousness.
These theatrical preludes to the poems are, in fact, an exercise in the exploration of the
various dimensions and layers of meaning within the poetry, for our group.

The bodies of the performers and the spaca within the round can be utilised for
is desirecreating the poems in theatrical idiom. The naked realism of the presentation
of recigned to shake one off from more comfortable, aesthetic and cathartic experience
DARBAR'
‘RAVl
a
at
tation of poetry, that one enjoys

HA R L EE N KO HLl

