A few words from the Director -—
is the.

Draupadi, penned by Surendra Verma,

epitome

of

Mahabharat took
f'eminity.— It was because of Draupadi that the
is still existing.
place and because of her enternity of woman suffering

This script Operates on a couple of levels.

One of the

tionship between Krishna,
mythological aspects of the script is the rela
namely—r Yudhishthir,
Draupadi and her ﬁve Pandav clan husbands
Arjun, Bhim, Nakul and Sahdev.

and her relationship

ln contemporary story line— Surekha

1, 2. 3 and 4.
Manmohan plays main roles— husband
every disillusionment
These split personalities of Man Mohan express

with

of post—modern human relationship.
ions,
Draupadi deals with human emotions more than situat
by the
focusses on the psyche of the human being. The script evolved
ip and human
cast during rehearsals explores universal relationsh
it deals with
understanding like Mohan Rakesh’s “ﬁdhe—Adhure"——
of people
the tearing apart of the family, dilemmas and predicaments

in daily life and the shattering of relationships.
The improvised script of DraUpadi

V

focusses on the sole blade

nuously
of grass ﬁghting for existence and identity of a woman in a conti
encroaching male dominant society.

The daily frustrations, trials and tribulatlons'hthat constitute life
of Surekha, Man Mohan, Anil, Alka and others
Draupadi— pressures, awe, fear, constant struggles

are manifest in
which lead to

anonymity and lack of individuality that threaten us in this age of
of Globalisation”. A person is in danger of losing his identity and
becoming a part of the face-less mass that walks down the Street in
every town and city in the present society.
The joint production is being performed in a short period of

three weeks. I would like to thank the cast and crew of the play for
their exceptional discipline, understanding and initiative.
On behalf of the cast and crew, I would like to thank and
acknowledge the follwing for their support and guidance : Mrs. Shanti
Verma, Mr. S. R. Das, Dr. M. Joshi, Mr. R. S. Wallia, Mrs. Jugran,

Mrs. Madhu Chaturvedi and those who generously lent us props and
contribution.

