1 _

r ,
A

८३८४ . I A 1 grand celebration of rhythm and style
शा 'ष्ठफ्लोनुहिष्ठव्याशाष्ण

the workshop presented a performance choreographed by Piyal. This was followed by various presentations by different dance groups.
Fifteen troupes from different parts of the
state participated in the event. It was a perfect
opportunity for them to present their work in
front of a large audience.
The show began with “O

he International Dance Committee of
the International Theatre Institute is
the founder of International Dance
Day, which is celebrated on April 29 every
year. The celebrationcoincides with the birth- Amar Desher mati”, a choreday of Jean-Georges Noverre — he was born ography directed by Rudrava r
in 1727 — who is considered to be a reformer Neogi and presented by Sain dance. Many institutions in Calcutta have ' hana. The theme of the en- ‘ ‘
started organizing programmes on this day.
tire programme was ananda -*:
The West Bengal Dance Group Federation (happiness), and different
_
celebrated ‘World Dance Day’ at Rabindra groups expressed the idea है '
Sadan recently. A nine-day workshop on through diverse styles and '
natyashastra was conducted by Kalaman— stories. Most of the perform—
,
dalam Piyal, a dedicated trainer and choreog- ances were quite creative. '
fapher, on this occasion. The participants of Anandam, for instance, pon-

dered the notion of inner joy through the
genre of peacock dance. This performance
was directed by Urmila Bhowmick. Arkodev
Bhattacharya, a Bharatnatyam dancer, and
his troupe, Niharika Centre for Performing
Arts, named their production, Amanda, and
attempted to do justice to the chosen name
through joyous movements
and innovative choreography.
Parampara, under the guidance of Raj deep Banerjee, offered Manush in Which folk
songs were used imaginative, , 1y Jaydeep Palit and his group
५ created a colourful and spontaneous ambience through
the Gujarati folk tradition.
The Mamata Shankar
Dance Company presented

Journey, which met the high standards that
are synonymous with the troupe. Aparajita
Auddy and Mala Sen chose ‘book’ as their
theme of production. In their presentation titled De Udan, the dancers tried to portray that
a book is one’s real friend. Sandip Mullick, a
Kathak danCer, and his group, Sonarpur
Nadam, presented Katha Raskirtan. The presentation was rhythmic, precise, and engaging. Graceful movements, layakari and a
proper comprehension of the medium were
the chief attributes of this presentation.
Kasba Nabadiganta presented Ramdhanu,
while Abantipur Om Foundation selected
Anya Partha for their contribution of the
evening. The programme came to an end with
Ganesh Chaturthi. This particular production was presented by Subhangik and was directed by Subhojit Das.

