KHANABADOSH 1 st March, 2002
Playwright : Ale KAU R
Direction : D.R. ANKUR
The Director
An alumnus of NSD, Prof. Devenclra Raj Ankur is the pioneer of a new genre
in modern lndian theatre called kahani Ka Rangmanch. He has been a
teacher in various institutions including the Bhartendu Natya Akaderni,
Lucknow, Bal Bhavan, Delhi and various universities. Now he is the Director
of NSD.
Prof. Ankur is the founder member and leading director of Sambhav, a Delhi
based theatre group. he has presented many stories and novels in the
Kahani Ka Rangrnanch genre besides directing contemporary and classical
plays.
Prof. Ankur has directed many plays for television and has contributed
articles and reviews to leading magazines. his major directorial endeavours
include Teen Akant, Mahabhoj, Anaro and Khanabadosh.

About the Play
Khanabadosh is based on the autobiographical writings of the well-known Punjabi short story writer Ajit
Kaur. The last three episodes of the book concerning her meeting a man, falling in love and finally being left
in the lurch form the core of Khanabadosh. It explores the journey of the herione, a sensitive woman who
goes through an emotional trauma, drowns in an ocean of despair, and takes to the streets to fight her
loneliness. Her relationship with the crude, emotionless and comic Oma leaves her out in the cold. The
'other' woman, the Khanabadosh then rises within herself, and sees the sickness that confines her to bed as
a companion. Thoughts and emotions and hidden moments of an individual come out in a series. The first
person narration of the story brings out the man-woman relationship in the present society in a simple and
yet effective manner. To retain the originality of the story, the director has limited the stage props to the bare
minimum, in tune with the genre of Kahan i Ka Rangmanch.

About the Group
Theatre lovers are quite familiar with Sambhav, a Delhi based theatre group comprising NSDians and other
established artists. Founded in 1984, the group is informal, flexible and at the same time practical in its
organisational structure. All the members of the group are equally at ease in all aspects of the theatre, be it
acting, directing or any other related activities. Sambhav has so far produced some fifty plays that have
staged about 250 shows throughout lndia. Some of its leading productions are Mahabhoj, ye Aadrni Ye
Choohe, Anaro, Adhe Aclhure, Khamosh Adalat Jaari Hain, Ek Inspector Se Mulaqat, jayaz Hatyare,
Natsamrat, Roshomon and Khanabadosh. About 20 directors from all over lnclia including Kanhailal and
Badal Sarkar have been associated with Sambhav and have directed various productions in different
languages.

On Stage
Ajit Kaur
Oma

Hema Singh
Vagees h Kumar Si ngh

Off Stage
Lights
Design & Direction

Pankaj Saxena
Devendra Raj Ankur

