M ....
. Nu,awe.

, a s '1.५५२५१८५३त्मा

As you can see, we are not the
only ones eager to hear front you.
Convent schools. Public schools.

World class infrastructure

What’s more with over 25,000 residential

Colleges. Medical and engineering

Soon to be connected to Delhi by a 6 lane

allotments already made and around

institutes. Centers of higher learning.

expressway, it's the only city in North

Rs.11,000 crore worth of induStrial

Greater Noida welcomes you to

India with privatised power. Phones are

investments in place, the increasing

Knowledge Park. An exclusive

connected to the national telephone

preference for Greater Noida is becoming

locale solely earmarked for educational

network on optical fibre cable and

even clearer. For commercial, industrial

institutions. To come shape the future

digital micr0wave systems. And the

and residential investors alike, who

of coming generations, in the fastest

underground cabling and sewage match

clearly see a future ahead for themselves.

developing hub in the vicinity of Delhi.

world standards.

And their families.

Just 35 minutes from Delhi

Look who's already here

।३ lहै
l1

Inviting offers for:

12,000

While schools and engineering colleges

hectares of development, is fast

like DPS, Somerville, St.]osephs,

emerging as a symbol of modern town

Galgotias and IEC are already

Social at Cultural Centres

functional, land has also been allotted to

Hospitals

planning; inter-flowing green spaces, a

Greater Noida

City, with

En gin eerin g/M e dical/
Vocational Institutes

o
Centres for Performing Arts

०
0
०
Entertainment/ Liesure Complexes

grid iron pattern of wide roads for an

Jamia Millia Islamia Institute of Medical

efficient public transport system, and a

Sciences. Besides, of course, for hotels,

unique integration of a residential and

commercial complexes, hospitals,

industrial sub-city.

nursing homes and others.

0
Corporate Plans/Ofﬁce Complexes
0
Other specialised institutional /
commercial activities

Joint venture with the Authority can be
considered in appropriate cases.

TERMS & CONDITIONS: Eligibility- Any individual/finn/trust/society or body corporate can apply. The applicant should be
competent to contract. Competitch Plot Rates- Rates per sq.m range from Rs.465.00 to 2200.00 depending on the institutional
category and size of plot. Terms Of Payment- Easy and attractive payment plan options exist at highly competitive interest rates
0 Technical offers shall be submitted in requisite format/form to the office of ‘The Officer on Special Duty, GNIDA'. For further
details about plot rates, payment /installment plans and for terms of inviting offers, please refer to scheme brochure or call for
an appointment. How to apply: Brochures with applimtion forms are available at New Delhi: Canara Bank, H-54, Corinaught Circus.

GREATER
" NOIDA“
C - I ' T ' Y
'

.

Noida: शाक्ति Bank. A-5,Sec-19; 1प्र१द्वा८ Bank. Sec-18. 6mm Noida: Bank of 3८०८८ Extension Counter, Greater Noida Office Complex. Planned With an obsessrort
Noida City. Greater Noida. District Gautarn Bum Nagar, U.P.
लु Greater Nolda Industrial Development Authority. 169, Chitvan Estate. Sector Gamma. Greater
Tel: (01 18) 456 6335-37, Fax: (01 18) 456 6334 . Please pretix 91 lot direct dial from Delhi. E-m ail:gnida 6del2.vsnl. net.in
www. g re ater n o i da .c o m
ENTERPRISE NEXUS 1209

