R A N G AK A R M E E
RANGAKARMEE was formed in January, 1976, with
fundamental objectives of Promoting a socially conscious
and responsible theatre movement, producing those dramas
which irrespectives of political views, will be useful to
the society. Presenting such socially responsible dramas

among the common people in metropolitan such theatre to
reach a wider audience so that Hindi theatre can become
mass- based.

RANGAKARMEE also started a conscious effort of
collabOration between Hindi Group Theatre workers and
experienced Bengali Group Theatre as well as other
Language Group Theatre Workers. In these 15 Years of
intense dedicated activities we have produced 13 successful productions and staged our plays almost all over India,
as we have staged our plays among thousand workers of
KIRI BURU IRON ORE MINES, lot of conferences,
students, teachers, Busti and slum dwellers, Darjeeling 8

Siliguri Drama Festival All India Police meet, W. B. Chief
Minister Drought Relief Fund Expo 82, JANVADI LEKHAK
SANGH, GORKY SADAN, CESC Workers, Textile Workers,
Trade Fair Authority of India, Delhi, All India Youth
Federation-Durgapur, So many Drama Festivals organised
by Rangakarrnee Er Regent king 8 Charms, Arambh,
Charvak, Anarnika Theatre Workshop etc. Sirpur ( Andhra

Pradesh ) Allahabad, Panagarh, HINDI DRAMA FESTIVAL
PATNA, All India Drama Festival—Dehradoon Organised by
Sangit

Natak Academy, Lucknow, Lucknow— by U. P.

Sangit Natak Academy, Thousand Tannery Workers, Street
Hawker’s Association, Behrarnpore Theatre Festival, C.P.I.
Rally where approx. 10 Lacs peoples have seen the plays,

SURAT, All India Wornens Festival at DELHI (Organised by
TRADE FAIR AUTHORITY OF INDIA) at Expression
Women’s Theatre Festival—Bombay, All the places the
plays were highly appreciated for its simplicity, outstanding
social value, team work and a new type of approach to
Theatre.
Four of our productions have been awarded by the West

Bengal Government and different societies.

Our Primary

aim in putting up plays like Parichay, Guria - Ghar, Jaat Hi
PuchhoSadhuki, Mother, Mahabhoj, Purush, Lok Katha,

Apaharan Bhaichareka, Holi, Vama, has been to project
socially relevant ideas and contemporary situations in a

real and truthful manner. We have been able to in our
own small way, to reach the common people, although
we feel that, with some of the financial constraints
removed we will be capable of doing a better social service.

