Shakespeare around the world
Shakespeare who wrote four hundred
years ago is still in demand, and more
widely and more frequently performed
than any other dramatist. Every state
in the United States of America has at
least one annual Shakespeare Festival.

Famous actors and actresses return
repeatedly to Shakespearian roles and
film stars insist on playing Hamlet,
Richard the Third, Shylock, Beatrics,

Rosalind, and on stage before live
audiences. During the cold war in
Europe, Shakespeare continued to be
performed on both sides of the Iron
Curtain. India has a long tradition of
staging Shakespeare and now Japan,

more usually, two plays followed one
after another, year after year, each
changing style and tackling new
subjects. Some kind of discontent must
have driven him - a perpetual desire to
move forward. Harold Pinter has said
that whichever way one turned as a
playwright, there was Shakespeare
ahead, having already been where the
new writer in the present age was
struggling to reach. In much the same
vein, Peter Brook, the director, has

said that Shakespeare is always the
actor’s and director’s master, no matter

what experiment is in hand.

Can it be that theatre is a backward
looking art form, insisting that
Shakespeare is our contemporary
because it has found no other convincing voice for our own time - not one
that has such presence on the stage? Is
it possible that the most respected
theatre directors turn to his scripts
because nothing modern has such
Vitality? Strehler, Mnounchkine,

To persistance must surely be added
the good fortune to have been born in
the right place at the right time.
Theatre is a collaborative art which no
one person can make on his or her
own, and an art that is fully alive only
with an audience to enjoy it and
contribute to its making. In both
respects Shakespeare was fortunate. He
wrote for a theatre already widely
popular in appeal as well as patronised
by leaders of the nation, gentry,
professional persons, students - even
lawyers commissioned special perfor-

Brook, Stein, Suzuki, Lepage, have all

mances. Moreover, he was not alone:

used Shakespeare repeatedly for
productions that are startling and
contemtiously modern, and often
sensuously beautiful as well.

before an early death, Christopher
Marlowe vied with him in popularity;
the writing of plays drew most of the
ambitious young authors of the time,
poets, politicians, and future priests
among them. Yet their theatre was not
a literary one, as we understand that
term today. Infected with delight in
language and rhetoric, the dramatists
also drew on less sophisticated sources;

China, Korea, Australia, South Africa

and many other countries have fol—
lowed that lead.

Why should theatre be so fixated? The
easiest answer is to say that
Shakespeare was a genius, but other

geniuses have not so transcended
boundaries of race, culture, language,
and belief, or proved so immune to
changes brought about by time.
The variety of Shakespeare’s work

may point to part of the secret, for he

old-fashioned rituals and ceremonies,

ballads, fairy stories, games and competitions. The most serious plays would

seems never to have been content to

have comedy in them and, often,
actual combat and chase, processions,

repeat himself without significant
changes; for over twenty years, one or,

disguizes, music, dances. Unlike a great
deal of ambitious writing for the

