Hey Nungshibi Prithivi
(My Earth, My Love)

The wheel oftirne rolls on. The present is a small link connecting the eternal chain ofthe past
and the future. But, who knows what is there in store tomorrow for us, the mankind. Ifwe look

at the mirror ofthe past to see the image ofthe future, the future ofthe Earth, eaten bare to the
bones by the humans, is very bleak — an uncertain gloom hangs in air.
On opening the pages of the history of mankind, horrendous images of the past unfold one
after another. Closer at home, seven-year devastation of Manipur by the Burmese is clearly
etched in the history of Manipur. Hordes of children had been suffocated to death with the
smoke of burning chillies. Thousands of people tied with cane-splits passed through slits in
their ears and palms had been dragged away as slaves. In other parts ofthe world, many more
terrifying incidents had happened. Hundreds of thousands of people had been packed in
concentration camps and starved to death by the Germans. As revenge for killing ﬁve hundred
thousand of their people at Stalingrad, Russian soldiers had raped ﬁfty thousand German
women. The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbour. The Americans retaliated by dropping atom
bomb at Hiroshima and Nagasaki causing damages of untold magnitude, and injuring and
killing hordes of innocents. Genocide during the Khmer Rouge regime in Kampuchea has
also marred the history ofMankind.
There is no dearth of such horrendous incidents written with blood in the history ofMankind.
Prophecies ofwise men for the recurrence ofsuch incidents in future reverberate in air. Isn’t it
the duty of the present generation to reform, and bring peace and harmony to the Earth for a
better future ofthe mankind?

In the play, seven sisters, celestial nymphs (mythological characters), weave a cloth, the
traditional symbol of love, peace and honour, in a loom for offering to the Almighty with a
prayer to put a stop to war and bring peace to the Earth. History is personiﬁed as an old man.
The nymphs, who can assume any form, ﬂy around the Earth as birds and incarnate as human
beings to open the chapters from the past, soaked in blood. They also ﬂy to West Asia and
Europe to see the demolished Ottoman bridge on the Neretva River built by Suleyrnan, the
Sultan ofMostar.

The play ends with the nymphs, symbolising the peace loving citizens of the world, offering
the cloth they have woven so meticulously to the Almighty with a prayer for peace and
harmony. Assuming the form ofpigeons they ﬂy offto collect dust from the place in Barniyan
where the colossal Buddha once stood peacefully and sprinkle it over Ground Zero, where the
twin towers of World Trade Centre once stood ﬁrrnly. History, crippled with the atrocities on
women and children, is reduced to an open book in a wheelchair.

Are the ﬂags ofthe UN ﬂuttering?

