ABOUT THE PLAY

This play is a complete contrast to the offerings of the British High Commission
ADC last year when we staged two very successful comedies.
Hester Collyer has tried to take her own life, and now she lies unconscious
before the gas-ﬁre in the dismal furnished ﬂat in Notting Hill. But the gas in the slot
meter has run out, and she has been found by the young couple from upstairs, Ann and
Philip, before she has been too seriously affected. Fortunately another tenant, Mr.
Miller, a refugee and a former doctor, is able to treat her without formality. To all
these people she is known as Mrs. Page; only the housekeeper, Mrs. Elton, knows that
she is really the wife of Sir William Collyer, from whom she has run away to share her
life with Freddie Page. Freddie, a test pilot, though fond of Hester, cannot in any way
match the depth of her passion for him, and it is the realization of this that has been
the cause of Hester’s terrible despair.
Once an efﬁcient and much-decorated ﬂier,
Freddie has allowed himself to get into a state where he cannot hold any job for long,
and he has given himself up almost entirely to drink and golf and to living his life in the
war-time atmosphere of a Service Mess. When he accidentally discovers what Hester
has been doing, he ﬁnds himself in a welter of emotions that are quite beyond him; nor
does his attempt to discuss the matter with his friend Jackie Jackson bring him any help.
Partly because he fears the implication of moral responsibility and partly because he
can see no future in a life bound up with Hester, the bewildered Freddie makes up his
mind to leave her. The offer of a job as a test pilot in South America gives him the

opportunity.

Hester's husband has already been informed of what has happened — or

nearly happened — and, because he is a generous man who has not lost his sincere
affection for his wife, Sir William now pleads with her to return to their old life together.
But for Hester this is quite impossible, and would still be even if there were no glimmer
of hope that she could win Freddie back from his decision to leave her. She fails, and
Freddie goes; and once again she is ready to put an end to her life. It is only Miller,
whose own career as a doctor was ﬁnished by an unprofessional act that sent him to
gaol, who shows her that life can still be liveable even without hope — and as compensation she should cultivate her own small talent for painting. The advice is hard,
but Hester recognizes that it comes from someone who, like herself, has touched the
cl e p t h s .

BRITISH HIGH COMMISSION ADC

