The GDR record company VEB Deutsche Schallplatten Berlin
issues a tworecord set entitled. “Bertolt Brecht Tondokumente”. Brecht himself
is heard
with the song of Mac the Knife and that about the futility of human
aSpirations
from the “Threepenny Opera" (historical recordings from 1928/1929), and
with
his poem “To future generations". Beyond this the album contains interviews

Brecht gave during the fifties and which had fallen into oblivion, his contribution to the discussion and his address to the thh Writers’ Congress of the GDR
in 1956. Taped recordings of B.echt's interrogation before the Committee for
Unamerican Activities in 1947 are published here for the first time in Europe.
The written English text and tne German translation have been added to make
Understanding easier.

Also for the first time the second LP of this set gives an insight into
Brecht’s working methods. Still in his |ifetime——from the season of 1955/1956
on—the rehearsals at the Berliner Ensemble were taped. This work was carried

on by Helene Weigel. A selection of about 50 minutes was compiled from the
existing cuts of rehearsals for the "Caucasian Chalk Circle" and the "Life of
Galileo". It provides and impression of Brecht’s way to work with the actors—
among others with Ernst Busch. Apart from this new release VEB Deutsche

Schallplatten Berlin over the past two decades has issued a total of 50 LPs with
Brecht's texts, songs. dramatic productions and with historical recordings. Of
these LPs half a million cooies were sold. From January on another 125,000 to

150,000 copies from the large offer—which comes up to a recorded complete
edition of B recht’s work —will be on sale in the shOps.
scheduled, according to demand

Further re-editions are

The already existing records include the legendary stage

production of

"Mother Courage and her Children", starring Helene Weigel, Ernst Busch, Wolf
Kaiser and Ekkehard Schall, “Squire Puntila and his Man Matti ' with Annemarie

Hase, Therese Giehse, Erwin Geschonneck and Leonard Steckel, “The Seven
Deadly Sins of the Petty Bourgeoisie" with Gisela May and Peter Schreier, and a
historical recording of the "Threepenny Opera" with Lotte Lenya, Willy TrenkTrebitsch and Erich Ponto, to quote just a few examples.

Brecht’s demand to foster equally theatrical representation and the art of
onlooking is supported by publishers in the G DR with ever new editions of his
theoretical works, with large editions of his plays and also with the publication
of a large number of volumes of secondary literature about him.

