(Bharatiya :Zala iendra
Bharatiya Kala Kendra, founded in 1952, has grown and blossomed
over the years as the premier cultural institution of India dedicated to the
task of nation-building through aesthetic joy. Ever since its inception the
preservation of the country’s cultural heritage and the promotion of perfor-

m ing arts has been the active concern of the Kendra. The best in the Indian
way of

living as

enshrined in the epics—equality of man,

perseverence,

steadfastness, preparedness even for the supreme sacrifice for a right
cause— IS underscored time and again through the training

programmes

which the Kendra mounts, as also through the Stage performances which
it puts up.

it takes special care in whatever it

does so that its activities

remain linked with and have a direct bearing on the problems and requirements of contemporary I ife and do not, under any circumstances, become
obscurantist or escapist.
The first convocation Bharatiya Kala Kendra held on August 23, 1971

brought into focus the contribution of the Kendra in rearing up a whole
generation of creative artists in the field of music and dance. Despite
heavy financial odds, the Kendra has been meticulously upholding the
policy of maintaining highest standards in the teaching and performance of
these arts.

It is no minor achievement on the part of the Kendra to have

succeeded in bringing together some of the worthiest representatives of
the traditional arts of music and dance within the fold of a modern cultural
institution.
Perhaps the most noteworthy and remarkable achievement of
Bharatiya Kala Kendra has been the revival of Kathak dance~one of the
ancient classical dance styles of North India. Based on the Kathak techniques, Malati lVladhav, Kumar Shambhava, Shane—Oudh, Dalia, Taj Ki Kahani

and Krishnayana have been the major dance dramas produced by the Kendra.
Ramlila first presented in 1957 is the most spectacular production of
the Kendra.

A dance drama of magnificent amplitude, it has come to stay

as a major annual cultural event of Delhi. The ballet presents a way out of
the dilemma to the modern man —the dilemma of conflicting values, loss
of faith and inability to keep stead—fastly to the path of virtue.

Besides Ramlila the Kendra has a large number of successful full
length dance dramas to its credit, IVlira Ba i, Sitayana, Geet Govind,
Meghdoot, Azadi Ki Ore, Keno Upanishad, Glimpses from the life of Lord
Krishna, and Urvashi. In all the ballets so far produced, special care has
been taken that while providing entertainment to the people, the philoso—

phical and cultural content occurring in our mythology, legend, folk-lore
and history are not lost sight of, nor is the relevance of the portrayal in the

modern context forgotten.

The Kendra presented ’Keno Upanishad‘ under

the auspices of the Arpana Trust, lVIadhuban in January and February ’I 9 7 5
and the cooperative experiment has been widely acclaimed. The production
of Ballet on the life and philosophy of Bhagwan I\/lahavir is another bold

step taken by the Kendra.
The experience gained by the Kendra has encouraged it to have a
Ballet Training Centre where a three-year Diploma Course,
covering
different aspects of Indian Ballet is pursued.

