The judgement is announced in favour of Mahavir, although he is not
present there. In him, it is announced, lies the hope for this sinful
world.
Trishla

and Siddharth leave the kingdom.

Nandibardhan rules Kundalpur.

He feels

Mahavir's elder brother

lonely because Mahavir has

taken his final decision to take to the path of renunciation. Lokantak
Devas (seers) appear and request Mahavir to accept Deeksha. Leaving
his kingdom and palace Mahavir goes out into the forest.
I N T E R V A L

1 O.

He throws away all his clothes, shaves his head and in this nude position wonders from place to place, bearing all the tortures that come on

11.

his way.

First he is hit by the fury of nature, followed by the tortures

inflicted on him by ignorant people.
another he finally reaches Kosambi.

Overcoming one obstacle after

1 2 . War has broken out in Kosambi. There is murder, arson and rape
all around. Chandana, a princess is sold in the market to a rich
man, called Dhanavah. Mahavir does not accept any aims from anyone.

People are puzzled at this stiff attitude on his part. One day he accepts
food from Chandana, who is a captive in that rich man's house. This
act on his part surprises everyone. People feel quality of their bad
deeds.

13.

Mahavir attains Kewal Jnan.

1 4 . He has ultimately reached the great heights of Truth.
him to hear his teachings.

Pepole flock to
But he does not speak. lndrabhuti the

greatest learned man of those times is amused to see all this.

He

also goes to the place of Mahavir. Mahavir on seeing him addresses
him by name and speaks of the philosophical problems that continuously haunt him. lndrabhuti at once understands his folly and
becomes his disciple. He is appointed as Ganadhara—the chief spokesman and is named as Gautam. All the kings, queens and princes come
there one by one and in groups and become his pupils.

15.

Time passes.

Mahavir’s teachings spread in all the four corners of the

country. Three of his main teachings are communicated to the people
showing their universality and relevance for all times. These are-«
(1) Ane kant, (2) Ahimsa. (3) Aparigriha. The world can become a
better place to live in, if these teachings are followed.

1 6.

Maha Nirvana of Mahavir.

