The Doctrine of Ahimsa
By Shri S C. Diwakar

The doctrine of Ahimsa and

its rational,

scientific

and practical

exposition is unique and unparallel in the history of human thought.

The term Ahimsa implies abstinence from killing any living being.
It
is also a positive virtue based upon universal and fraternal outlook and
compassion towords all creatures, Non—violence comprises of purity of
thought, words and deeds motivated by unbound compassion and genuine
love.
Jainism has not taken an extreme and one sided view of Ahimsa. It
has been classified into various stages according to the mental make-up
and environments of the adherent. Punishment or use of weapons has not
always been wholly condemned or discarded for safeguarding and maintaining the dignity of Law and Justice.

There are various stages for the practice of this noble principle which
basically requires avoidance of voluntary or intentional injury to any living
being. If there is no guilty intention one is not adjudged guilty of vitaence.
If a surgeon carefully performs an operation

and yet the patient dies in

that case the doctor is not guilty of the murder of the man.

On the other

hand the burglar who robs a citizen of his valuables will be punished as a
felon because of

his evil motive.

Motive is the important factor whether

an act comes under the perniew of voilence or otherwise.

Ahimsa is the way of harmlessness,

the way of

recognition of

brotherhood with all creatures, the way of endurance and compassion, the

way of service and not of selfishness, It helps in attaining the salvation,
The sensible and soberminded embrace the sublime path of “Love all"

“Serve all".

If this divine ideal is implanted in every heart and faithfully

followed the climate of this struggling world will be healthy.

If the heart is not hardened and the conscience is not brutal ised one
will agree with these remarks of Dr, Annie Besant, “Humanity rises,
becomes nobler and diviner as the virtues of unselfishness, self—sacrifice
and compassion for the weak develop.

is love”.

We all love things that live.

God

