FEW WORDS ABOUT JAINISM
By Satish Kurnar Jain

Jainism is an independent and one of the oldest religions of the world.

about it occur in

Rigveda

and Shrimadbbagwat.

References

It is a natural way of living a highly

scientific, aesthetic and enlightened civic life. According to Jains, in the eternal time span
there have been cycles of 24 Tirthankaras who possessed highly distinctive virtues, attained
Kewal-J nan and gave spiritualism and enlightenment not only to the mankind but also

to the animals and birds.
The present cycle of 24 Tirthankaras started from Bhagwan Rishabhdev.
He was
the first to give and organise agriculture (Krishi), military science (Asi), script (Masi), architecture (Shilp), trade (Vanijya) and learning (Vidya).

He laid down the norms for

living as

good citizens and organised Varna system on functional basis. His eldest son was paramount
king Bharat Chakrawarty after whose name this country is called Bharatvarsha. Among other

sons Bahubali, whose famous 57 ft. high statue stands at Shravanbelgola in Karnataka State,
was known for his great physical strength, renunciation and penancing life culminating in
attainment of Kewal Jnan—the purest and perfect knowledge.
eldest Brahrni introduced the first script of the world

’Brahmi'

Among his daughters, the
and

the

second

Sundari

introduced the digital numbers.
The name of 7th Tirthankara Suparaswanath occurs in Rigveda.
Neminath

was relative

Paraswanath

877 8.0.

was

born

and
to

contemporary
his

parents

of

Lord

Krishna.

The 22nd Tirthankara

The

23rd

Tirthankara

king Ashwa Deva and Varna Devi at Varanasi in

After rigorous penances he attained Nirvan in the year 777 8.0. The 24th and

the last Tirthankara in the present cycle Bhagwan Mahavir was born to king Sidhartha and
Trishla Devi at Kundanpur in the Republic of Vaishali in the year 599 BC. Vaishali was then
at its height of prosperity and became far famed for being associated with the life of Mahavir.
He was extremely brave and courageous from the very childhood but compassion

and sight of perpetual suffering to the living beings evoked in him renunciation of material
objects and worldly pleasures.

Aspiring to free himself from the cycle of birth and death

he took Diksha (initiated as a saint) in the year 569 BC.

Acharang and other canonical

literature give graphic description of his practising severe penances, without any clothes
on his body, and hardships he faced.

After twelve years of rigorous penances Mahavir

