had the truimph over physical weakness and limitations and attained pure and perfect
which transcended the limits of space and

knowledge-Kewal Jnan-in the year 557 B.C.

time. For another 30 years this greatest apostle of peace visited different parts of the country

and preached his philosophy propagating his five doctrines Ahirnsa (Non-Violence), Satya
(Truth), Achaurya (Non-stealing), Brahamacharya (Celebacy), and Aparigriha (Non-accumuHe not only preached Anekant and Syadwad but also fully practised them

lation of wealth).

in life. He laid maximum stress on the sanctity and dignity of the spirit and to free soul front
Karrnas. Born at a time while animal sacrificing, slavery, bonded labour, casteisrn and low
status to women were widely prevalent he preached Ahirnsa (Non-violence) as the greatest

religion.

He streased that violence, either voluntary or intentional, should be avoided to any

living being.

He explained to the society various problems of life and their solutions,

preached

live a

to

and

life of restraints having no accumulation of wealth more than needed.

At the age of 72, Bhagwan Mahavir attained Nirvan in the year 527 B .C. at Pava.
After Mahavir’s Nirvan his noble principles continued to be preached by countless

eminent and learned Jain saints and their deciples in all parts of the country. During the
past 2,500 years Jainism has not only provided a sound ethical basrs for spiritual development as a highly scientific living religion and moral force but has also greatly influenced the
philosophical thinking of the country by its rich spiritutal heritage.

In fact, Jainism is

a perfect system with all the necessary branches such as anthology, metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy, ethics, rituals, mythology and rich traditions.
The Jain monarchs Bimbsar, Chandragupta Maurya (ruled during 323-299 B.C.),
Samprati, Kharvela, Arnoghvarsha, Kumarpal and others ruled over vast territories with
remarkable success.

Many of the princely states, particularly in Rajasthan and south had

Jain Prime Ministers who were ideally loyal, extremely intelligent and brave.

They and

other Jain philanthropists and business rnagnates greatly promoted architecture, sculptoring
and other fine arts.

Many of the Jain temples and caves all over the country are famous

world over for their equisite carving and magnificence.

The sculptoring of Jain statues in

number and fineness of art is unparalleled. There is vast and varied Jain literature written in

different languages. Most of the early Kannarese literature is nothing but Jain literature.
Old Prakrit and Apabhramsa works in large number are the valuable antiquarian treasure
of the country.

In all, the Jain community forms an important section of the Indian Union. It not
only controls the industry and business of the country in a big way but is also endowed
with a remarkable cultural heritage and has succeeded in preserving in a large measure the
originality and integrity of its creed.

