DEVELOPMENT OF AVIKAL (9
AVIKAL, an initiative for life and active learning‘ has been created by the initiative
of Alok Ulfat. Alok has an M. A. in English literature from Garhwal University India;
Teacher Training and speech in Drama Training from Emerson College; has taught,
acted and directed in India, England, Canada, . Italy, Sweden, Hungary and Poland;

served with a Theatre in Education Company (TIE) of the National School of Drama
(NSD) New Delhi.

Alok returned to India in 1991 after many years abroad and began giving theatre
art workshops in different centres around India. In 1994, with the experience he had
gathered, Alok wished to have a permanent space which would be a solid foundation
for further initiatives, a centre for communication and the sharing of inspiration. He
contacted some old friends 1%) and together they launched a poster campaign
and gave talks at Colleges and Computer Institutes to gather interested young people
together.

AVIKAL has established itself as an original initiative, a forum which is not
comparable to institutions of further education or centres of private tuition, but is a
place where young people can work together in creating an awareness for themselves
and others of the destruction of the natural environment, of social problems and of how
each one of us conducts ourselves in daily life. Alok hopes that through this awareness,
indi—
a concern and commitment to living could come about in the everyday life of an
, vidual, who would contribute to a greater change in the world.

as it
Alok felt that a theatre art workshop Was an appropriate activity for the youth,
in the ﬁeld of
would provide an artistic activity where there is a lack of opportunities
art.

AVIKAL,
Printing of environment friendly cards and badges depicting a logo for
finances
how
is
L,
AVIKA
collecting and selling of old newspapers by those involved in
style
hut
onal mud
have been provided so far. A renovation project done 'in the traditi
as a development
with participation from individuals involved in the group, will serve
are interested
who
those
for
open
be
office for AVIKAL. The development ofﬁce will
in carrying out projects and initiatives in the future.

groups worldwide.
AVIKAL would like to be in contact with other creative
AVIKAL is in search of ﬁnancial support.

You are welcome.

५

i है a l

