~, ८

Upon returning home from an Avikal Workshop, my mother didn ' t hesitate to

make her opinion known . "welcome home. At last you have got time from your busy
task of improving this world. So tell me, how many revolutionary changes you have
brought about today? You better keep improving this world only and forget about the
promise you made of achieving 85% marks. "

Why does my mother expect such mediocrity from a non mediocre boy? High
d my
percentage, higher percentage, my foot high percentage. But yes, I promise

mother 85% because I realise that the popular education system and those in government in charge of its development, are blind. One is not judged from ones actions,
rily give
manners and achievements, but from ones marks and these may not necessa
bribe or
one a pass to work or an entrance to an university, which may require a further
means ' ,
the
decides
which
end
the
donation. For the popular education system, ‘ It is
for me it is and always will be ‘ It is the means which decide the end.‘

of the
A heavy. work load is demanded of children from which the image has arisen
of
stress
the
and
books
of
small child walking home bent double under the weight
until
up
wake
they
study. Many students feel the pressure of studies from the moment
late at night. . They do not have space to feel jolly and light.

for life, but it is
I am not against studying, it is necessary to learn essential skills
e adults with a limited
because of an insensitive schooling 'system that children becom
perception.

space where enthusiasm,
Schools can play a constructive role through creating a
opment of practical, artistic,
creativity and imagination is encouraged and the devel
tion for the development of
spiritual, academic and physical subjects provide the founda
३
balanced human beings.

elves with mink coats,
Unless and until the beauty queens stop adorning thems
Monroe will not be considered a
unless and until the pantis of glamour queen Marilyn
will be responsible for the in—
better birthday present than a green tree; we ourselves
rainfall and for the extinction
creasing diameter of the hole in the ozone layer, for acid
of many amazing and beautiful species.

sure my parents will be happier
Now I have to study to achieve 85 % as I am quite
seeing this article published.
to see a 1% increment in my exam result rather than
.ﬁﬁriinav was not 46k: to participate in tﬁe phy Jae

ABHENAV THAPLIY'A L

to [treasure from Home and5cﬁoa£

