FROM DARKNESS T0 LIGHT ५
y In a _frenzy of activity many of us race blindly towards our target of a developed
Indra which wrll provide us with the material bounty of western nationThe cultural heritage of lndia, suited to its people and environment, providing them
with an understanding of all life and of their role in the world tlnongh mythology, religion, the cast system etc. , is now being exchanged for a new lifestyle. This process
could be looked upon as the transition from child to adult, the adolescent rejects
his/her parents authdrity and in doing so loses the . seemity which the parents beliefs
words and habits have provided. The teenager has ' now created a space from which to

make. a new start, to ﬁnd a new direction. He/she is दे" to influence यहाँ that which
lie/she chooses is liker to determine the direction of
future life.
Surely it is the responsibility of the older generation to create an envirrorrrrrelrut
where an adolescent can ﬁnd a constructive role to play; if there is nobody providing an

education which attempts to address the problems of racial conflict, povert' , pollution
etc. , it is unlikely that these problems will be”dealt
it self indulgence is cocoon
aged through for eriarnple, the arousal of desire by advertisements which portray images '
such as handsome young men smoking a certain thanI of cigarette or (1111]18 a partic-

ular alcoholic beverage, and semi-clothed
“C

I

ष

ममय-भीमा: the sale of camera film
_

लू I ",5 if

; ३ .

.

- .A

-

"

Advertising through television, radio, magazines, newspapers, etc. is what many

children and adults are exposed to daily. Does this not bring about a feeling: of being
exploited? lf ones everyday experience is with the images crmted by those who
wish to make money out of you, how does one feel? You are an object to he exploited

and they are those who wish to exploit you हुँ ' ' "

' "if!"

.

Following the decision of the ministry Eogg’irrapce to “ease trading regulations and]
open up opportunities to foreign companies, indie is seeing an increasing quantity oil

westernised goods, many imported products 1141 foreign companies} mhlislring thorn-

selves within the country.

'

' ८3 ' ८ है.--.:- " ३ — - »

These are new developments for India and there is virtnally no awareness or" the
effects the products have upon the natural environment which sustains our existence .
Cement and plastic rapidly take the place of the natural environment and its beauty is
exchanged for hideous concrete buildings which rnirltiply without restriction and; which
are surrounded by heaps of discarded plastic. The rmds that run through these. concrete
wastelands are full of vehicles that would not comply With the level of pollntion permit-

ted in western countries. The practise of factory farming animals (a product oi which is
broilers chicken available in Dehralth who aregiven the space to move and are

