GATT & I THE GHOST OF‘ GANDHI
By Sandeep Singh
Date 4th of May 1995 - Time 9.30 P.M.
Million of Television sets all over the
nation
eagerly await their favourite Talk Show,
‘Nikky T‘onight"-T'he gUest for the evening
is
Gay Rights Activist Row Kavi... The
screen comes on live-Ashok Row Kavi
a typical
dashing youth of our nation steps on
to the centre stage.... there's an appl
ause the
hostess Nikky Bedi welcomes him and
the ﬁrst sentence the youth has to say.
. . . .Gandhi
was a Bania/Bast..d, the studio explo
des in uproar. no doubt a big thing to
say but
nobody stops the show and eVery
thing continues... I turned towards
my
moth
er
who as
a child had run into the streets of Briti
sh India shouting with other children. "Mah
atma
Gandhi Ki Jai.... Mahatma Gandhi Ki Jai"
and looked at her dumbed founded. .. . I
could
not say anything but my Blood boiled at
the statement of the Gay Right‘s activist...
How
could he say such a thing? Is this what
people of free India owed to that one man
who
‘ did more than any other of his generation
to make us free... . who out of dust had made

us into men who could hold their heads high in
dignity. . . . I was at a compl

ete loss. Can
we in the name of development in the name
of modernization break away from the
past; with out reﬂecting. with out respe
ct. without discriminating between the
profound and the "profane" because it all
looks liberating-dOes it give us any real
power. any more balance or poise '2... does it give
us a right to say anything anywhere?
I walked over to Nanhi Dunya. I was afraid the Souve
nir of Prithvi would already be
in print and that I was too late. With such trepidation.
I met Alok and I asked him. "Has
the souvenir gone to the printer?, there was someth
ing I wanted to say about
Gandhi-can you give me one page or even half. I was. . .
." Alok seemed to have read my

thoughts and realised that something was disturbing me. He said.
"Look Batu (a name
my friends call me) is there a message you would like to give to us...
go ahead there is
space... but we don‘t have time. .. . you must do it quickly".
I felt relieved and sat down
. next to the workshop. It was evening time and there was
nobody in the garden...there
was a palpable sense of calm.... a solitude of its own... this
was the world of Nanhi
Dunya at once so little and so large. .. .this is where the partici
pants had worked at the

workshop, created their play... here they had laughed and cried togethe
r and together
Questioning every thing they had built a ‘Nanhi is Dunya' of their
own. . . . what possible
message did I have for them. . . . A man from the village what message
could he have for
the youth of the city, then suddenly I remembered once Gandhi had
remarked that it
was far more difficult to be a villager than to be a graduate and though
I was not an
expert on development or International Trade but then I knew that each
man rich or
poor. Well-read or a simple villager has an instinct for the right and wrong an
‘Atma’ or
the ‘Inner Voice‘ that always makes us calm when we do something right or disturbs
us
when we are. about to do something which is not right. It was this ‘inner Voice' that now
told me that. there were something which we just took for granted. I wanted to question
assumptions such as ‘Economic Development’-free trade. We all assume that trade
is

a good thing and more trade will increase our welfare. That development is not only
good but an absolute must... my questions are. ‘Development for whom?'... And ‘whose
Welfare does it lead to?‘ If we look around the world today and see what is it that the
poor countries of the world have to oﬁer for sale-the answer is Natural resources and

