hard labour. Let us take the example of Newzealand and see what the whiteman
has done in its efforts to, "Develop" it.... its development pattern is interesting
because it was done so simply. so systematically. They started by cashing in their
whale population i.e. developing it. Unfortunately. by the time it was developed
there were no more whales left. So they began cashing in their Seal population and
soon they too went the way of the whales. So they looked around and found they
had things called Kauri Pines. wonderful trees with soft yellow wood which makes
the best boats. Three million Acres of Kauri was cashed in with only a relic now

left to look at its grandeur. Finally. they had nothing left but the bare land so they
put sheep on it. and with the sheep came grazing and over-grazing and down the
slopes went the top soil which had taken millions of years to form and nothing
without which can grow. Eventually there is nothing left and you end up in a
desert-that
is
the
out-come
of
what
in
a
nut-shell
one
would
call-Development-creation of urban centres in the middle of vast deserts with
money and power in the hands of‘few... Not the Maories. not the Aborigini lndians
or any archiech people-but white men or their coolies who ape them.
I think it is time we took a pause and reﬂected to listen to the words of one man
whose voice was the soul of the nation and indeed the words are prophetic. F‘or Gandhi
was not just a village man but also a global'man-who was a socialist but not without a
clear notion of what it meant, a man who wanted India to do well and that meant its
teaming millions. He said .
"The greatest obstacle in the path of non-violence is the presence in
our midst of the indigenous interests that have sprung up from British
Rule. the interest of moneyed men, speculators, scrip- holders, land-lords.
factory owners and the like. All these do .not always realise that they are
living on the blood of the masses and when they do they become as callous
as the British principals whose tools and agents they are. If they could but
realize that they must give up their blood stained gains, the battle is won
for non-violence... I want the concentration of wealth not in the hands of a
few. but in the, hands of all. Today, machinery helps (afew) to ride on the
back of millions. The impetus behind is not philanthropy to save labour.
but greed. It is against this constitution of things that I amﬁghting with all
my might... I am convinced that if India is to attain true freedom. and
through India, the world also, then sooner or later thefact must be realised
that people will have to live in villages not towns, in huts not palaces."
Edward Goldsmith, the recipient of the Right Livelihood Award said in a talk
delivered at India International Centre on 13th December 1991 :-

"If we want to survive in this planet we need to massively reduce the
impact of \our activities on environment that is ever less capable of
supporting us. To do that. is to reduce the scale of our activities. to return

to the village and small communities that Mahatma Gandhi talked about.
to conduct our activities at that level and to cater notfor a world market
butfor a village market... if we have afuture on this planet that is the only

'

