"l dward 11 (1284- 1327), king of England (1307—27) had the right , physical
i

attributes for kingship, but few other qualiﬁcatiOns. Contemporaries
ridiculed the pleasure he took in rowing and working with craftsmen. His predilection for favourites, whether or not based on homosexual attraction, was

politically disastrous.
Ibe main issue in his ﬁrst years on the throne was the role OfEdward's favourite
Piers Gaveston, exiled1n 1308 by the Ordainers, who returns in 1309. Upon
. Gaveston’s re-entry into the country, Edward gives him titles, access to the royal

treasury, and the option of having guards protect him. Although Gaveston himself
is not of noble birth, he maintains that he is better than common people and craves
pleasing shows, Italian masques, music and poetry. However, despite the king’s
sadness for. him Gaveston ﬁnds scant favour from the king's nobles, who are soon
clamou'ring for his exile. The nobles soon ﬁnd an excuse to turn on Gaveston again,
and eventually capture and execute him. Edward,in turn, executes numerous peers

and nobles who executed Gaveston. Consequently, a scandalous bloodbath बै
follows.
है

Edward now seeks comfort1n a new favourite, Spencer, deciSively alienating
Anne, who takes Mortimer as her lover and travels to France with her son in search

ofallies. Edward, both in the play and in history, is nothing like the soldier his father
was —- it was during his reign that the English army was disastrously defeated at
BannOckburn —~— and18 soon outgeneralled Edward takes refuge1n Neath Abbey,

butIS betrayed by his own nobleman, Baldock. Spencer18 exeCuted, and the king
himself15 taken to K1111ngworth His brother Edmund, Earl of Kent after having
initially renounced his cause, now tries to help him but realizes it’8 too late, for the
power has moved into the hands of Mortimer.
'Ihe Gurney brothers then take the prisoner king to Berkeley Castle where he

meets the Lightborn, who is sent there by Mortimer, and who kills him. Ihe
' Gurney brothers kill Lightborn to keep his silenCe. Later, Anne arrives to warn

Mortimer that Edward III, her son, has discovered their plot Before they can plan
_ accordingly, her son arrives with attendants and other lords, accusing Mortimer of

३ murder. Mortimer denies this, but1s eventually arrested and taken away. He tells
- Anne not to weep for him, and the queen begs her son to show Mortimer mercy, but
_ he refuses Edward III then orders Mortimer‘ 5 death and his mother's

३ imprisonment, and the play ends with him taking the throne.

