Music

Known for the unique blend ofﬂuency and melody in his ﬂute and shehnai recitals,

। .

Pt. Raj endra Prasanna belongs to the Benaras Gharana. He received his training from l

his grandfather Pandit Gauri Shankar and father Pandit Raghunath Prasanna.

w.m.em.mwc-,-mcwg .

Pt. Rajendra Prasanna
.,, :'

है ' ‘ ,I.

In 1 968, at the age oftwelve, he was invited to the Calcutta Music Conference; in 1 984 दु ३

, . ,.

he was special invitee to the 9thAsian Music Festival in Hong Kong; and in 1 988 he स्ना88हुँ^ . ,. '" "४
invited to the Bulgarian Festival. In 1 986 Prasannaji became the ﬁrst ﬂautist and

\

shehnai player to visit Pakistan for a music concert after the partition.
He has performed internationally in France, Belgium, Poland ,Germany, UK, Switzerland, Japan, Mauritius,
Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, etc. ; was closely associated with the Golden

Jubilee celebration ofIndian independence in 1997; has participated in the goldenjubilee ofthe Sangeet Natak
Akademi in 200 l ; and has been a “Top” grade artist with the All India Radio.
In 2002 he was a part ofa Grammy—winning music video put together by Pt. Ravi Shankar at the Royal Albert
Hall, London, in memory of the George Harrison; and in 2006 the “Festival India” in Japan was inaugurated
with his Shehnai recital.
Prasannaj i is the recipient of several awards including the Surmani (1 978), the Sangeet Pujari ( l 986), the
Nadratna (1994) and the Sangeet Surabhi (1998). He received the Rose Award for his music in Sanjha chilha

(1994); was the ﬁrst shehnai and ﬂute player honored with the Utter Pradesh Sangeet Natak Akademi Award
( l 995); and was also the recipient ofthe Lifetime Achievement Award given by Sahara India in 2003 .
Pt. Raj endra Prasanna is presently working with the National School ofDrama.

Vivek Mishra

Maplalinn

Vivek Mishra is a graduate from Delhi University and from the National School of Drama
with a specialization in acting (1 991 ). He has worked in the NSD Repertory Company as an
artist for 3 years. He is the Founder ofa theatre group’Chaya Chhat Manch’, which performs
on terraces of private residences in and around the Uttarn Nagar locality. He has directed 8
full length plays and has translated and adapted several classics l i ke Mother Courage,

Caucasian Chalk Circle, The RiseAnd Fall OfThe City 0fMahagony, Lux in Teneberis, Bagad Bil/a,

३

Three Sisters, A Doll’s House, He Who Gets Slapped, End Games, In theJungle ofCities, Who’s
4
.
Afraid of Virginia Wolfe, etc. He was also a part of Ti m Supple’s production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream,

which traveled to many places across the world.

Ad i | H u SS a i n ३I

'

ii- A graduate of National School of Drama, specializing in acting in 1 993. He received the
:3 Charles WallaceTrust Scholarship to study acting in England at the Drama Studio, London.
a.

हुँ

In 1 997, he was invited to act as the lead actor in the production 'Moeder I ndia' by the
Amsterdam based International Danstheater Company that toured for eighteen months. .

m In 1999, Adil acted as Othello in the acclaimed production of Othello: A play in Black and
t: White which was awarded the Edinburgh Fringe
9~
सं-:

g;

First. He is still touring with this

५
ब

production and has performed over the last 10 years in Zimbabwe, France,
\\
England, Egypt, Germany, Holland, Belgium and India. From 1997 till 2001, he also served as a visiting
faculty member at the Drama School in Amsterdam and the Royal Conservatory of Performing
Arts in The

Hague. From 2001 till now he has been regularly teaching acting as a visiting faculty member at the
National School of Drama, New Delhi and from 2007 onwards at the Film and Television
Institute of India in

Pune. He acted in Ishqiya and played by lead role as Jasoos Vijay for Doordarshan, as Othello in, A&B
motion pictures film production of 'In Othello', lead roles in films such as lti Srikanto and in the play

Orientations (Dir Michael Walling) by Border Crossings Theater Company in London.

