Souti Chakraborty
Born in Kolkata, Souti Chakraborty started theatre in 1 984. An alumnus of

'

a? ५

National School of‘Drama (2001 ) with the specialization in Design & Direction, he has
worked with Gri ps Theatre for seven yea rs in Kolkata; in the NSD Repertory as a

:

director, designer and aCtorfor seven years; and with almost all the eminent
directors in India. He has also acted in television serial Maharaja Ranjit Singh. As a
teacher, he has participated in many theatre workshops and has represented l ndia in

'The young theatre Workers’Workshop in Berlin.

Prasanna .D
A grad uate ofthe National School of Drama in Design & Stagecraft (2008),

Prasanna .D has also done his Honours in English Literature and a one year diploma
course from N i nasa m, one ofthe most reputed theatre institutes of Karnataka.
_ He has been the creative director at the Haryana Police Academy, Mad hu ban, where

I

l

he taught theatre and directed plays with pol ice officers as pa rt of a project on

”Sensitizing Police for an Empowered Society". He has Worked with many eminent

।a

.

d i rectors from India and a broad;_has conducted theatre workshops in different

regions ofthe country; has pa‘rticipated in theatre festiva l 5 including the Rafi Peer
Theatre Festival, Lahore, and has directed plays like Bimbayana, A MidsummerNight’s Dream, Refund, Charandas Char, SahebAa Rahe Hai, etc Prasanna DIS currently working as a freelance
designer and director.

Santosh Kumar (Sandy)
Born in Dha n bad, J harkhand Santosh Ku mar has been working as a freelance music

7—“‘““—"“

composer, arranger and multimedia sound designing artist in Delhi & Mumbai. He
has assisted and worked with eminent theatre music directors like Late. B.l/. Karanth,
Ranjit Kapoor, Sanjay Upadhyay, Chitranjan Tripaty etc, and with eminent theatre
directors like RaIIjitKapoor, RobinDas, RaIIIgopalBajaj, TrIpUImISharma Satyabrat

Raut andDInesh Khanna etc. Santosh has also composed sound & music for national

‘1'

३
& state award win ningIﬁlms likeAmu and Dhauli Express. Some of his major
productions are: Roshoman, Jal DaIIIru Baje, Hum Rahe Na Hum, Hemlet, WhoIs afraid
ofVirginia Wolf, Traitor, Rangdhuli, and Wrong Turn, etc.

Kuldeep Kunal has done his Masters in Hindi Literature and in theatre and television.
He has been working as a scriptwriter for theatre and media for the last 6 years. I n
addition toteaching script writing in various parts ofthe country, he has also been
directing documentaries and short films; and has been working with Haryana Gyan
Vigyan Samiti, an organisation dedicated to creating awareness through theatre, for ड्
the last ten years. ast ten years. He has written several scripts such as MeeIa—A Divine ।

/ |

Kuldeep Kunal

77

Force, Gauhatya, Che as reference and The Landweaver and has done adaptatIons like h‘
Animal Farm and A Midsummer Night's Dream. HeIS currently working on a project

based on the life of sex workers. A poet at heart, Mr. Kunal also enjoys writing lyrics and considers
theatre to be a part. Of h is social commitment.

