Kﬂ'HतैN l

Rani,“ the only and beloved daughters of her parents, got married to a man called Appanna of a
remote village. After her puberty, Appanna, the son of a well—off but departed parents, comes
and takes her to his home. But to her utter surprise, Appanna, from the very first day starts
spending his nights at his concubine's house. He comes home only once a day in order to have
. his lunch, and leaves home immediately after 10cking Rani in 'her endless boredom.
Eventually, Rani comes in contact with Kurudabba, a blind lady of the same village, who has

to be carried on her son’s back whenever she wants to move somewhere. As Kurudabba comes

to know about Appanna's treatment towards Rani, she decides to help her by providing Rani
with two small pieces of mysterical eatables. Kurudabba narrates to Rani the story of her
marriage to a far-related boy by the blessings of a Sanyasi!
Rani gives the first piece of mysterial eatable in a glass of milk to Appanna but remains
. unsuccessful to win his love. Second time, when she tries to give him the second piece of
rnysterical eatable, she gets scared of giving this adulterated food to her husband and instead

pours it into a snake's hole nearby; The eatable shows. its effect and the snake falls in love with
Rani. As a result, the snake comes to Rani at night in the disguise of Appanna. Rani accepts the
snake presuming him to be her real husband and starts living conjugal life happily with him;
and in the due time, she becomes pregnant.
The moment Appanna comes‘to know about Rani's pregnancy, he becomes mad with rage and
beats up Rani accusing her of adultery. He calls the Partchayat to give a judgement on this
३ malicious deal. By now Rani has become quite matured having seen the colours and cruelty of
life with her real and disguised husband (without her knowledge). She prepares herself for a

Naga Pariksha in order to prove her sanctity, and with the help of her disguised husband, she
proves it. As a result, not only the Panchayat but also the villagers start worshipping heiﬁas the

Mother Goddess for the miracle that happens before their eyes.
They start‘living happily thereafter?---------

