Director's Note

We are living in a male—dominated society. Woman, well-educated or uneducated, is domina ted by the man; who may be her father, husband or even a brother. She is a lwavs the victim
of traditions.
In Nagamandala, an attempt has been made to reflect the changing human tendencies between
the man and the woman as wife and husband. We see that the behaviour of the man t0wards‘
his woman is different in the day, whereas it is totally opposite in the night. His behaviour
changes from time to time in tune with his demands. The whole day the man keeps the woman
terrified by behaving like a snake to get his due or undue demands fulfilled by her. But as soon
as the night arrives, he is transformed into a very social person, so that he may get the '
maximum enjoyment out of her at his will . But after his wishes are fulfilled, he throws away the
mask of love, passion and humanity, and again starts behaving like a snake who may even kill
her at a slightest instinct of annoyance. Woman is always a prey to-man’s greed of. self—

possession and sexual lust.
in this male—dominated society, the man wants to reserve all the sexual pleasures of .life for
himself only. It may be by way of having a wife, a keep, or even by having 'bigamy with other
married woman. The man can change the meanings of social values as per his own convenience, but the moment, he gets the slightest suspicion that his woman may have some
attraction towards someone else, he creates a scene and compels the woman to prove her

chastity, by way of various pariks/zns like Agni Parikslm, Nag Pnrikslza, etc. etc. In this reflection
of man—woman relation in Nagamandala, the snake is used as a metaphor for every individual

representing such behaviour.

’

This play leaves the surface of realism and takes a plight into the world of surrealism. It takes
the person to such heights where a snake does not remain a snake, it turns into a very loving
husband; a weeping woman is no more a weeping woman but turns into an overjoyed woman
— the time freezes in this atmosphere of pleasure. While directing this play, I have been highly
influenced by surrealistic painter — Dalli of the post-modern era.

Though Girish Karnard has written this play in a very traditional manner, I have tried to break

through the world of traditionalisrn and have tried to treat this production on off—line. Since last
seven years, I have been Working with the aesthetics of CHHAU in the modern contemporary

theatre, so this play is not an exception; but we have taken a step ahead this time to break all
the nuances of CHHAU and created moveme its from the mother form into a totally theatrical
fo rm .

l have tried my level best to be faithful and loyal to the author regarding interpretation of his
p lay .

