DIRECTORS NOTE
In a basic sense LETTERS HOME is a ‘compilation’ play-in that all the words in it are
taken from an already published book of letters from Sylvia Plath to her mother.
The ‘territory' of the play is of a continuingly intense relationship between a mother and
a daughter, made more poignant by its theatrical indirectness - enacted letters.
commentary by Aurelia, all of great emotional intensity.
The play is in a way like two different circles that meet and intersect at various points.
On the inside, it tells the story of Sylvia’s Intense life and death, on the outside it is
the story of the mother Aurelia, who through the course of the events of the play,
comes to terms with the daughter's life and death. The use of the simple poetry of
Sylvia's letters to her mother lends itself to the complex. often musical, speech patterns
of the play, sometimes overlapping, sometimes a ‘duet’ sometimes a mood
Refracted
through the prism of this relationship of a mother and daughter, necessarily separated
by their different real lives, yet emotionally ever bound up with one another, we learn
something more about ourselves. our own relationships

AUTHORS NOTE
On February 11, 1963 Sylvia Plath, saddened by the turbulent end of her marriage to
the poet Ted Hughes, enveloped in illness and disheartened by the … coldest, longest
winter London ever knew, took her own life. In the month before her death. caring for
her children and worrying through her upcoming divorce, she poured out the brilliant
flood of poems that would make her name. She knew it. She knew that she had
finally and in torment found her voice. She knew that she was strong and respected
and ‘a genius of a poet’. But that morning it was all too much, and she carefully poured
milk for her children, stuffed the doors and windows of her kitchen with cloths. put her

head down on the floor of her oven, and turned on the gas.

In the subsequent years.

looking for reasons, many people who had read THE BELL JAR. Sylvia’s satiric novel
about her earlier breakdown, unjustly blamed her mother, Aurelia, for somehow
failing her daughter.

I - and most of the world - knew that about Sylvia when I first read LETTERS HOME,
the book that Aurelia carefully compiled to give evidence of the life and death of her
brilliant, beloved daughter.

It was clear to me from the first that the play should use only the words of the book.
for the two women themselves, living out their own story, were more convincing than
any fiction a playwright could devise,
It was clear, too, that the words, though
wonderful in themselves, were keys to action, and that only when the women moved,
lived, experienced, did the play fully come to life. In my mind's eye I saw Aurelia and
Sylvia using the words to question, argue, tease, agree and disagree, laugh and cry.

I saw them passing on a staircase, each in a different world, yet each in each
other'S space.

