DIRECTORS NOTE
The idea of doing a production of "THE CRUCIBLE' had been. on my mind for
several years. Arthur Miller’s own personal anger and anguish during the McCarthy

witch hunt of the 1950's had triggered off the writing of this play- It was through the
Witch hunt of 1692,
process of researching the actual people and events of the Salem

that he wrote perhaps the most ‘classic’ of his works. It seemed only correct for "3
in indie to wait for the most opportune moment to stage this work, that deals with the
terrifying consequences of the nexus between economics and politics, religion and
mass hysteria.

That moment seems like now—as we hurtle towards the 2ist century. Within
days of starting rehearsal Roop Kanwar's sati took over the newspaper headlines, the

ultimate sacrifice that a feudal, patriarchial society could demand, the bunting to death
of a woman in the public view of thousands, while an administration stood by quietly
watching. This is only one of the several parallels that we hope our production will
raise in your minds as you watch it. The play then becomes a reflection of our own
age—an age in which each one of us has to face the crucible in our own way.

Feisal Alkazi

A NOTE ON THE PLAY
The hysteria that gripped Salem and it’s surroundings in 1692 were by no means
unprecedented in the history of that period. The ‘witch hunt’ as an institution is almost

symptomatic of an age unable to cope with itself.

By the end of the seventeeth

century, Europe lay exhausted, and the European conciousness profoundly affected,
by the collapse of the feudal order and the authority of the church, at that time, still
unable to deal with the crisis of the reformation. The easiest explanation as well as the
most convenient one for the prevailing chaos was found in a grand design inspired by

Satan and carried out by his hosts on earth, with the sole object of destroying
Christendom. The blame, of course was laid on the easiest victims. Throughout
Northern Europe from Poland to Scotland. old helpless women, Jews, gypsies. religious
minorities, and dissenters were brutally tortured and more often than not killed .............

in a sense, the idealistic inhabitants of New Jerusalem or “Salem" had come
away from England to America to avoid being caught in the malaise that they believed
had gripped Europe. Their intent was to build a Puritan Utopia in the virgin forests of
New England. Persecuted as dissenters in England, they in turn brooked no disagreement whith the authority of their church, The egalitarian, Christian Ut0pia, that had

been New Jerusalem soon turned itself into a totalitarian Theocracy.

Petty jealousies

and economic rivalry, opportunisrn and land hunger, and sermons vivid with the images
of hell soon set ablaze the most celebrated witch hunt in history.

