Playwright

PTERRE CORNEILLE
Born June 6, 1606 in Rouen, France, to a family of lawyers, Pierre Corneille would follow in his
father’s footsteps. Educated by the Jesuits, he studied law and then entered the Rouen parlement

in 1629. He would serve as the king’s counselor in the local office of the department of waterways
and forests for 21 years, and remarkably, he still found the time to write 20 plays during this period.
After his retirement from the legal profession, he would write 12 more.
Although Corneille is considered by most critics to be the father of French tragedy, six of his first
eight plays were comedies. His first play, Mé/ite, was presented by a strolling troupe that happened through Rouen in 1629. The play
was well received, but it was not until Mé/ite was revived in Paris the following year that Corneille’s career began to take off. He followed

this initial offering with a series of comedies and tragicornedies including Clitaridre (1631), La Veuve or The Widow (1632), La Ga/erie
du Pa/ais or The Palace Corridor (1633), La Suivante or The Maidservanf (1634), La Place Royal (1634), and L’ll/usion Comique
(1636).

Among Corneille’s many admirers was a political figure—Cardinal de Richelieu. Along with several other playwrights, Corneille was
invited by Richelieu to join a group known as the “society of the five authors". The purpose of this group was to allow the Cardinal
to supervise the creation of new drama for the stage. Much like a modern day studio executive, Richelieu would dream up ideas for
plays, then present them to his playwrights who were expected to dramatize the events exactly as the Cardinal had outlined them.
Corneille’s ternperrnent, however, was not suited to this rigid environment, and he tended to stray from the Cardinal’s outlines, often
causing a heated clash between the writer and his employer. 80, after fulfilling his contractual obligations, Corneille left the group and
returned to Rouen where he resumed his legal practice.
Fortunately, he did not remain in retirement for long. The playwright soon began to experiment with the tragic form and the result was
the well received Médée (1635). Then, in 1637, Corneille stunned the French theatre with his first masterpiece: Le Cid (1637), based
on the life of an 11th century Spanish hero. Le Cid opened at the Hotel de Bourgogne and became the smash hit of the season.
“Beautiful as Le Cid” became a proverbial expression—the equivalent of our own modern day expression: “Better than Cats”. Even
Louis XIII and his queen sent Corneille their compliments. Not everyone, however, was so enamored of the play. Richelieu, still harboring
a grudge against Corneille, staged a vicious campaign against Le Cid. He and his followers criticized the play for not observing the
“classical unities"—a formula that Richelieu was fond of imposing on all plays in order to control the drama still further. At Richelieu’s
urging, the Académie Francaise even went so far as to issue a document condemning Le Cid as ”dramatically implausible and morally
defective." Corneille was apparently deeply hurt by these attacks and did not write another play for almost three years. However, when

he did finally return to the stage, it was with a vengeance. He would quickly produce a string of tragedies that would secure him a
place in theatre history and which, along with Le Cid, would come to be considered his greatest works.
The first of these masterworks, Horace (1640), drarnatizes the conflict of families divided by duty during a war between the ancient
Romans and their Alban neighbors. Corneille followed this success with Cinna (1641) which tells the story of a conspiracy against the
first Roman emperor, Augustus Caesar, who outwits his potential murderers by granting them a political pardon rather than attempting
to have them executed as they expect, thus proving that he has strength enough to be merciful. And finally, Po/yeucte (1643), considered

by some critics to be Corneille’s greatest work, tells the story of a born-again Christian who finds that his wife is in love with another
man. In 1643, Corneille also achieved a remarkable success with a comedy of intrigue, Le Menteur or The Liar. Like Le Cid, this comic
masterpiece was based on a Spanish model and has come to be considered perhaps the finest French comedy written before the time

of Moliere.
In 1647, Corneille moved with his family to Paris and was admitted to the Académie Francaise, the same organization which had helped
to wage the earlier campaign against Le Cid. Throughout the rest of his days, Corneille would continued to write, but the public taste
had turned against him in preference of younger writers such as Jean Racine. Emblttered by this change in fortune, Corneille was once
said to have remarked, “Am I not always Corneille?” Complicating his situation still further was the financial difficulty caused by the

intermittent disappearance of the pension he had been granted by Richelieu shortly after the composition of Horace in 1640. On October
1, 1684, Corneille died in his house on the rue d’Argenteuil, Paris.

