Director's Note

In a very light and indeed playful manner, the “Play of / Play with Illusion” deals with one of the basic subjects of human life; what
is reality and what is illusion, what is truth and what is lie, what is subjective perception and what is objective fact. The play does
not give answers to it (which anyway would be illusionary...) but plays cheerfully with all its aspects. It leads the spectator on one
track, just to show him shortly after, that there he doesn’t get what he has expected, instead pointing in another direction where he
gets caught up again.
I’d like the spectator to look upon the play with a child’s mind. In fact, the experience I had with the 4-year-old son of one of my friends
has been crucial in respect to this play: one day, all of us were sitting at the dinning table, the boy with his wool—made sheep, talking

to it earnestly and feeding it. Me, perfect adult educationalist, asked him: “ And, does your sheep enjoy the food?” He looked at me
in total astonishment and answered: “Why, but it is only made of wool, it can’t eat.” And went back talking to it.

He knows that the sheep is not real and can’t have real food, but still it gets a lot of excitement and experience out of playing with
the idea of it. The eating sheep is not real, but nonetheless perfectly true to him. Truth and reality are not the same. That is the reason,
why । find Matamore, the ever-failing hero in “Play of Illusion", one of the nicest characters l have ever seen, because reality shows
him as a poor ridiculous wimp, but his truth is that he is a very happy hero. And I hope that the spectators will find delight in being
entangled in this question of what is real and what is true.
I also chose this play, because I have never been to India before and had no idea, what I would find here. So, I was looking for a play
that would provide a variety of styles: comedy, drama, adventure, tragedy, slapstick. I found the experience with the 16 young actors
quite tremendous and very different from what I am used to from my work in Germany. Here, the input of energy as well as the physical
abilities is enormous, you never have to look a long time for an idea coming up; whereas in Germany one often has to fight with stiffness
and lacking spontaneous action and has to tell the actors; “Don’t think, but play!" On the other side here one has to fight a lot more
to channel all energies around: “Don’t only play, but also think!” We spent a lot of time on focusing the energies in the way that they
actually help the co-actors and the central moment to come out instead of destroying it.
After all, I found the work here in NSD very exiting, a very interesting and helpful experience. I am very much moved by the kindness
and warmth that I found here, and as we have worked hard for the last weeks, I am also convinced that it should be delightful to watch

the “Play of Illusion".

so
है
. .

९९
फे "M ५ व्र

ड्डीट्वे

रे

if
क्लिर्डक्कठे

स्थि
र्तीमृथोंख्याङ्क

