About P| aywri 9 hi
Utpal Dutt (1929-93), playwright, director, actor and ideologue, covered in his lifetime a range of theatre that encompasses, in a sense,
the history of modern Indian theatre. He began with Shakespeare,
both in conventional style and modern dress, toured the country with
the Kendals, carried on with Shaw and Odets in the English language theatre, before coming to Bengali theatre. After a short stint
with the lPTA, Dutt concentrated on his own Little Theatre Group,
with a series of adaptations/translations in Bengali from Ibsen, Gorky

and Sirnonov, and revivals of Bengali classics. In 1959, the Little
Theatre Group made a triumphant entry into the traditional citadel of professional Bengali theatre,
the Minerva Theatre, where LT4 staged a series of political spectacles till 1971 including landmarks like Angaar, Kallol, and Manusher Adhikarey. With collaborators like Ravi Shankar and

Tapas Sen, and a team of dedicated actors and actresses, led by the redoubtable. Sova Sen and
Nilirna Das. Dutt in his Minerva Theatre plays offered a model for the director's theatre that was
emerging in India at the time with flawless ensemble acting, excellent scenography, and brilliant
music and sound building up to great emotional impact. Simultaneously Dutt was performing street
plays and agitprop.

In the early seventies, he began to write and direct plays for the Jatra, the traditional touring theatre
in the. round, popular in West Bengal and the neighbouring states. In 1971 Dutt moved out of the
Minerva Theatre and returned to the more chancy existence of all such theatre in the country,
performing in rented theatres in one night stands, and touring the country. With his new group,
the People's Little Theatre, which he led till his death, he explored all the potentials of a 'revolutionary theatre', reaching national and global history afresh; responding to all the critical issues
that surfaced in the social and political life of his people, from an urge to conscientize them; and
making experimental forays into different models of theatre and acting conventions. Tiner Talwar,
Surya Shikar, Mahavidroha, Duswapner Nagari, Barricade, Ajker Shahjahan, Ekla Chalo Rey and
Lal Durgo are some of the masterpieces of the PLT phase.

His interest in cinema, a medium which he approached initially as an actor (appearing in his first
film role in Michael Madhusudan in 1950, and winning the national award for the best actor of the
year in 1969, for his masterly performance inm Mrinal Sen's Bhuvan Shome), developed over the
years to the point where he emerged as a director in his own right, pursuing the vision of 'a heroic
cinerna' in films like Jhor (1978) and Baishakhi Megh (1980-81). Till his death, he remained one
of the most pupular stars of the Indian cinema and perhaps the most versatile of them all, playing
comics and villains and patriarchs for the popular Bombay cinema, and the lead for Satyajit Ray's
last film Agantuk (1992). Besides his plays, Dutt has left behind a rich corpus of writing on theatre,
cinema and politics, a consistent rationalization of all his work, involvernents and passions.

