D i recto r
Born in Kancharapara, 24 Paraganas, West Bengal, Bapi Bose

grew up in an atmosphere of 'Jatra' - the traditional theatre of
Bengal. He was involved with|.P.T.A. and Group Theatre movement
of West Bengal in the Mid - Seventies. He received his Senior
Diploma in Drama Direction from the Institute of Indian Theatre
Arts, Calcutta, and graduated from the National School of Drama,

New Delhi 'with specialization in 'Direction'. He was in the NSD
Repertory Company for seven years as an 'Artist'. Meanwhile he
went to National Institute of Dramatic Arts, Sydney, and Australia
under a Cultural Exchange Programme, to further his study on
"Methodology of Stage Design and Theatre Techniques".

Mr. Bose has acted in more than fifty plays in leading or major roles
in Hindi and Bengali productions like - The Merchant of Venice, Julius Ceasar, The Servant of
Two Masters, Marat Sade, Epilogue of an Author, Sharvilak, Rakt Kalyan, Urubhangarn, Andha
Yug, Hayavadana, Mashr-qui-Hoor, Khapsurat Bahu, Muwavze, Pair Tale Ki Jameen, Ashwathama,
Agnigarva Lena, Yudhishteer etc.
Mr. Bapi Bose has designed sets and lights for more than sixty plays including NSD Repertory
productions like - Hamlet, Seagull, Pygrnallion, Great Peace, Mitro Marjani, Quaid-E-Hayat,
Epilogue of an Author, A Traveller without Luggage, A letter to a child who was never born,
Pair Tale Ki Zameen, Mother Courage and her children, Martia, Netuwa, Nati Binodini, The Trial,

Surya ki Antirn Kiran Se Surya Ki Paheli Kiran Tak, A view from the Bridge, Muktadhara, Dilli
Chalo etc.
He has directed more than thirty plays like - King Oeidipus, Broken Jug, Spartacus, Khamosh!
Adalat Zari Hai, Sattar Dashak, Swarvarna, Latakhamba, Agnigarva Lena, Socrates etc. and the
much acclaimed production of NATI BINODINI for NSD Repertory Company in 1994. In 1997, to mark
the two occasions : the Birth Centenary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and the Golden Jubilee
of Indian Independence Mr. Bose Directed NSD Repertory Company's prestigious 'Mega - Multimedia' production Utpal Dutt's 'DILLI CHALO' which was again staged for twice at the historical 'Red
Fort' .

Mr. Bose has worked with almost all the eminent theatre personalities of national repute and some
of them of international repute like - Ebrahim Alkazi, Prof. Fritz Bennewitz(GDR) Konard Zshiedrick
(GDR), Prof. Franj Haveman (GDR) Designer, Prof. Helmich (GDR), Rodney Marriott (USA),
Catherine Rao (USA), Brian Thomson (Australia) Designer, Peter Cooke (Australia) Designer,
Prof. Habib Tanvir, Prof. B M. Shah, Prof. Mohan Maharishi, Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj, Shri B.V.
Karanth, Shri G.N. Dasgupta (Light Designer), Ajitesh Banerjee, Ratan Thiyam, K.N. Panikkar,
M.K. Raina, Prasanna, Amal Allana, Nisar Allana (Designer), Ranjeet Kapoor, Alaknanda, Bhanu
Bharti, Bansi Kaul, Rajinder Nath, Bhaskar Chandravarkar, Devendra Raj Ankur, Robin Das,

S.N. Jayarajan, Prakash Jha, Guru Om Prakash (Manch, M.P.), Guru Revaram Ganjeer (Pandavani,
M.P.), Guru Birjeet Singh (Martial Art, Manipur) etc.

Mr. Bapi Bose has worked for National and International Festivals including Children Theatre. He
has conducted Theatre Workshops in West Bengal, Orissa, Assam, Bihar, Delhi etc. He has also

participated in 'Berlin Theatre Festival' in 1986 with NSD Repertory Company and visited other
countries. Mr. Bose has been invited as a Visiting Designer in NSD Repertory Company as well

as National School of Drama and has been in their Visiting Faculty since 1990. In 1997 Mr. Bapi
Bose has been awarded 'Senior Fellowship' from Ministry of H. R.D. है Dept. of Culture. Govt. of India.
Awrded 'Netaji Samman' (Gold Medal) from A.I.F.B. for DIILI CHALO in the year 1997.

