स्था The Girl ३३

Aruna's case resulted in a landmarkjudge—
merit allowing for passive euthanasia.
Today. if a woman is raped and left in a
semi-vegetative state, the rapist is tried as
a murderer.

j _. Next Door Lush in Du bey on a new playthatseeks to rec aim
Aruna Shanbaug from the memory ofher assault

- DlPANlTA MATH
THERE IS only one photograph of Aruna
Shanbaug beforeshe was rapediii 1973and
it doesnot showhow much funshe was. ln
iriore familiar images, the nurse, who
passed awayin May this year, lies in a vegetative state at King Edward Medical
College in Mumbai for42 years, as a legal
battle of euthanasia is fought over her. A
new play by Delhi-based Lushin Dubey
seeks to reclaim Shanbaug. the person, _

ARUNA'S STORY
Lushin Dubey (left)
and Shanbaug

frorri the cause. Aruna’s Story isabiographical script based on a book byPinki Virani,
a Murribai-basedjoumalistand writerwho
had followed Shanbaug’s case since 1982
and ﬁled a plea for passive euthanasia for
her. In this interview,the playwrightspeaks
on reimagining Shanbaug and playing 20odd characters.
Howhaveybu interpreted Aruna's
story?
Aruna was frotn a small village called
Haldipur in Karnataka and had very big
dreams of being a nurse in Mumbai and

;;II;-

then going abroad to work and study fur—
ther. The playoperates onbroadly three lev—
els: the spiritedAruna. theaftermath ofthe
rape andthe ﬁght forlegal redress. Aruna‘s
assailant. the dog lab helper, Sohanlal

Walrriiki, was sentenced to onlyseven years
injail on charges of robberyand attemptto
murder. The heinous sexual assault and
rape was net even mentioned because no
one was willing to be a complainant.

Is the playas darkas Aruna's life?
The play begins in fear.The curtain rises
to a very powerful rape scene. which can
happen to anyone. It is notdevoid of lighter,
comic rriorrierits because these are also el—
ements oflife. Aboveall, we focus on Aruna
as the radiant. determined, outgoing and
sprightlypersonality, devoted to herwork,
cheerful with patients and colleagues and,
ofcourse, in love with Dr Sard esai towhom
she was engaged.
How did you recreatethe multiple
layers in a soloshow?
I play 18 to 20 characters — from Aruna
with her lyrical southern accent to Dr
Sardesai, the journalist with her clipped
diction,the matron,the nurses, the policeman,the bureaucrats. the taxidriver. . . I also
found thatthe play needed a modest set to
bringout the characters. Small things like a
nurse'ssari or a pol icerrian's cap can di sti nguish one from the other.

How hasyour stand ongender abuse
inﬂuencedthe direction of the play?
lfArunawere a man who had pulled up
a sweeper boy for doing his work badly, I

don't think she would hau- been raped
There is a scene in which the matron says.
“Why do we always have to be on guard

and not speak our mind, Just because we
are women . . . when Will they make t he
workplace secure for us '2" We sh Iiie a tort]i
on all girls who are achievers in an elTVll‘Oli
mentthat insists on patriarchal definitions
of womanhood.
Do youalso portray Pinki Virani, the
author and an activist for Aruna
Shanbaug?
She was adamant that she should not
be portrayed so she is mentioned only in

the third person. Even Sohanlal has only
been mentioned. Aruna herself is never
shown either through action or image af—
ter the rape; her story moves forward only

through other characters talking about her
or toher.
'

The play will bestaged a tIndia Habitat
Centre in Delhi on Septem ber 26 and 27
I I- I

_

—‘__# w.—

New Delhi

