६
'-,

r.

b८ .
.

)

L

3. N033. ON r333 3ng
—— ‘n “-

Fourteen years ago I had presentedﬁﬂﬁﬁhA'ODnb in
Hindi, to give the students of the National School of
Drama some idea of Bhavai, a folk dramatic form of

Gujarat, through their direct participation in it.

at

that time there was a lurking doubt in my mind about
not only the feasibility of transplanting a folk form
from one linguistic soil to another but also the pro-

periety of such an attempt.

Since then this verSion

of'Jasma Odan' has been performed in same other Indian
languages including Kannada and the positive response
of the urban audiances from different parts of India
has shown that we do share a common ethas on the basis
of which, regional dramatic forms if suitably recreated
can have a wider relevance and enrich the modern theatre.

JASMA ODAN is one of the fifty or sixty surviving
playlets, known as veshas, in the traditional repertoire
-of Bhavai troupes. Like most of the folk forms th-t“

evolved from the ancient Indian.Uprupakas (Folk pl ys)
and developed Specific regional characteristics around
the 13th and the 14th Century A.D. the Bha ai Vesh s“'

also project medieval values which have now become

शुद्ध गि ऱटुछ \

socially irrelevent and deserve to be rejected.

EVERY Age has necessarily to re—interpret it स्सीक्षम्भछिब्ध५_ओं
inheritance in the light of its own cantemporary reality' "

”'”""W M

in order to make it meaningful rather than carry the

‘

dead weight of histori.
This production is one possible
attempt in this direction.
The continuity maintained
by these forms reflects the continuous reality in our
lives and they have a great potential for establishing
an immediate rapport, which is the mos; essential element
in the development of a modern theatre that is culturally

rooted.

However, an attempt to significantly after

a traditional text, without loosing
sight of the basic
ethos of a given folk form does pose some delicate
problems.
Unlike the ठेप्लावृद्वादु or Nautanki, there is no regular

publication of_Bhavai Veshas.
version

There is no standard

of Jubﬁu ODAN but all the Bhavai troupes have

13 common a basic outline of a plot glorifying the Sati
i eal.

as the original story goes, Judﬁn was the Apsara
Kamakundala, cursed by Nala Rishi to be born on earth,
in a community of migrant construction workers (odes)

and to be married to in ugly, lame m;n of the same
community.
The curse came because of her attempt to

seduce and tempt the ﬁishi out of
penance.

She ha

his meditation and

agraced to do this at Indra's

-

command because he suSpected the Rishi of wanting his
throne.
The apsara angered by the curse of the Rishi

curses him in turn that he too would be reborn on earth
as the ugly lame man she is to marry.

as predicted,

she marries this man and remains faithful to him,
resisting all the advances made by the king Siddharaj

Jay Singh of Patan who had hea~d of her beauty and sent
for her. Failing in all his attempts the trustrated
king orders the slaughter of the entire community of

Odes working in Pitan.

Ruda (Rupa), the husband of

Jasma is killed with many others.

Jasma brings the

story to a climax bv cursing the king Siddharaj and

_

.
८

