.... 2 _

his Kingdom to destruction and prophesying that
a muSlim mosque will arise 2t the site of his

grand palace.

There efter, Jasma becomes a Seti

and dies with he: hvst“nd,
a fakir enters in the
final sequence, coming all the way from Mecca to
fulfill the prophesy of Jesme and brings back to
life Jasma and her community of odes.
The texts
of the two traditional versions collected by

Dr. Sudha Desai and Shri Amrit Ntyek, which I
consulted before preparing enr own version of this

play, had 3159 followed this same theme and plot.
I hid heard this stor y

of Jasma Odin in my

childhood an‘ whet had sustained my interest over

a period of time, was the personality of Jasme as
a working woman.
I was also attracted by the contrast
between.the image of Siddherej Jay Singh as preserved
in our folk lore and the one projected by our historians who see him as a‘mighty conqueror ushering in

the Golden age of Gujerat.
Besides removing a; the interpolations which
are not relevant to the spirit of the play but which
may have been used as a powerfil means of propegende
by the ruling classes during the muslim period, my
versicn changes the theme of the play by replacing the

Sati ideal with the dignity and strength of a down to
quh working women. In factE by the end of the play
when kaldev comes to call Jasma back to heaven, she
prefers to stay and struggle here on earth, rather than
go back to a heaven that is too still and unchanging
for her.
Although I have retained all the main characters
except thit of a fakir, appee‘irg in the traditional

play. I have redrawn most of them, giving to them
different dimensionS. Siddhara; - Indra, Rudio (Rupaji)

Nala‘Rishi, Jasma — Kamakundale, Kayak — Kaldev and
4'”

Rangl ~ Lildev become extensions of each other and
thus alter, the basic pattern of interpretation.

It the treditional version, Iamakundale is simply
the sensual temptress; here she becomes a creative artist

working in e celestical troupe.

She shares with Jasma

The traditionally
her pr;de and dignity in her vocation.
seeker of
fearle83
a
becomes
hypocritical Nala Rishi

truth gnd the physically and mentally disgusting,
foolis: husband of JaSma retains the philosophic tempera—
ment cf Nala Rishi in my version.

He eqtires knewledge

and wisdom from wanderihg minstralS, sufies and sadhus,
who ever he happens to meet.

InSpite of his physical

hand'1ep he is always preoccupied and seeks to extend
the limits of his own familiar world. To him this pro—
cess itself is beautiful. It is this rare and unusual
quality of

his personality that makes him the odd man

lS‘
out, rather than.his physical shortcoming. Caldev
the
portrayed as the Lord of fime and Laldev represents
colour aLd temper of the timeso

In this process of re—creation, the dramatic structure
of JASMA CHAN, as it is played by the tradigional Bhavai

pleyers, has become tonsiderazly tiglter.

rangla and

Nayak play the comcineu role of sutredhar and Vbel d'

ArthokahOplkes (Linking deViees) of the uncient

n ian

