nce of
in the universe. The Poorvamimamsa, therefore, stresses the importa

the practice and scrupulous observance of Vedic rituals if Man is to ascend
to heaven. Thus, in contrast to the Upanishads and the Uttaramimamsa, the
Poorvamimamsa ignores concept of ’Moksha’ or Ultimate Liberation and
embraces the concept of Swargaprapti or the attainment of heaven.
Similarly, in pursuance of the same contrast, it gives precedence to the
Karmamarga over the Jnanamarga.
It is, then, easy to see why tradition holds that the Jaimini who first
enunciated the philosophy of the Poorvamimamsa was also the Iaimini
who wrote a Mahabharata whose Ashwamedhika parva alone has come
down to us under the name of Mimini Bhamta. Both the Jaiminis gave
importance not to the Inanamarga, not to knowledge but to, the philosophy
of surrender. The Poorvamimamsa upholds surrender to and through
rituals as a way to empowerment while the Iaimim' Bharata upholds
submission to the Godhead through Bhakti, and thereby promises
salvations .

Lakshmeesha and his Bhamta
the
It is generally accepted now that Lakshmeesha was born sometime in
the
in
first half of 16th century AD. and that he belonged to and lived
village of Devanuru in Kadur taluk of the district of Chickamagalur.
He was probably a Vaishnavaite and his version, in Kannada, of the [aimini
Bhamta is steeped in his philosophy of the Bhagavatha darma and the
di
Bhaktimarga. Lakshmeesha’s ’Bharata’ is written in the Vardhaka Shatpa
(a popular six line stanza format) and his verse is reputed for its wordmusic and its sonorous quality. He has in fact, been called Nadalola
Lakshmeesha by DR. Bandre, the great Kannada poet of our century.
Lakshmeesha’s capacity for story-telling in verse is indeed superb and his
characterisation of the protagonists of the various stories and epics is done
skilfully and feelingly so as to exemplify and propagate the philosophy of
Haribhakti .
Lakshmeesha is at his best when narrating the story of Chandrahasa and
Shri K.V. Puttappa’s play is based on Lakshrneesha’s telling of the story so
much so that Shri Puttappa has reproduced entire passages straight form
Lakshmeesha’s poetic epic.

