Chandrahasa in Yakshagana
Chandrahasa has been a popular prasanga in the repertoire of Badathithi
Yakshagana. The following is an article by Shri Gururaja Marapalli
concerning this prasanga. Shri Marapalli also provides a synopsis of the
story of the prasanga as it is played in Yakshagana. The story of Shri
l’uttappa’s play is identical to that of the Yakshagana prasanga which in
turn is based on the Iaimini Bharata. Therefore, the synopsis given by Shri
Marapalli may be taken to be the synopsis of the story of the play on which
this production is based, too. No separate synopsis has been provided.

Most prasangas performed in Yakshagana are based on the Mahabharata
and the Ramayana. Stories are also drawn from the Bhagavatha, and
sometimes stories that resemble those from the puranas have found place in
the repertoire, too. Kurnaravyasa’s Mahabharata is one of the most poetic
epics in Kannada. It has been written in the Bharnini Shatpadi metre. In the
Mahabharata, after the great war at Kurukshetra, Dharmaraja, holds the

Ashwamedayaga. The Iaimini Bharata, in Sanskrit is based on incidents
around this yaga. The sixteenth century Kannada poet Lakhmeesha wrote a
Kannada version of this epic in the Vardhaka Shatpadi metre.

In the ‘Iaimirzi Bharata’ Arjuna is sent, with an army, as an escort and guard
to the sacrificial horse. The horse enters the kingdom of Kuntala amongst
other kingdoms.

It is here that Narada tells Arjuna the story of Chandrahasa, king of
Kuntala. The yakshagana prasanga ’Chahdrahasa’ is based on this story.
When this story is performed in Yakshagana, only the briery side of
Lakshmeesha is used. Rest of the elements is from Yakshagana.
The Plot

The story and its development are based on Lakshmeesha— its telling in
Yakshagana is naturally a synthesis of music, rhythm and dance.
The Badaguthithi performers with their Vilarnbit way of singing, their
acting of great sensitivity and their giving importance to not only the
Veerarasa but also to all the other rasabhavas have their own remarkable
tradition of acting and have been immensely successful in performing

prasangas such as Gadayuddha.
’Bhishrnavijaya’, ’Virataparva’, ’Prachanda Vishwamitra’ and ’Paduka
Pattabhisheka’ Chandrahasa became another such successful prasanga.
This prasanga has certain features that set it apart from all the rest. Most
prasangas in Yakshagana have War and Victory as their themes. But
’Charzdrahasa’ shows Man’s helplessness in the face of Evil and its cruelty to
the Good and the machinations of politics in a studied way. It shows the
degradation that results out of Man’s desires, along with the ultimate limits
of what one can achieve due to desiring too much.

