No other prasanga in Yakshagana has this kind of drama. No other
prasanga has such a variety of characters. No other prasanga shows the
inner travails of its characters to the extent, that, this prasanga does. The
young Chandrahasa is saved because of one extra toe that he has on his
foot. Vishaya saves Chandrahasa from certain death and turns him into a
bridegroom for herself by changing just one letter in his death warrant.
Madana dies instead of Chandrahasa by the sheer coincidence of a change
in deputations. This series of fateful happenings that defeat
Dushtabuddhi’s ambitions is what gives this story its sense of wonder and
terror.

’Chandrahasa’ is a milestone in the history of Yakshagana because it has no
need of the main stay of Yakshagana: loudness and stridence. It has
challenged many actors to overcome their limitations and mocked at their
cliche-ridden acting. Chandrahasa is thus unique in the annals of
Yakshagana for having been on invitation to the best actors to challenge
themselves.
In showing that, besides Chandrahasa, diverse characters such as Pulinda
Medhavini, the Brahrnins, the Killors, Vishaya and Madana, are saved from

the Evil unbarshed by Dushtabuddhi because of their goodness.
’Chandrahasa’ emphasises the importance and inviolability of ordinary,
everyday life inspite of the havoc sought to be wrought by Evil and the will
to power.

The prasanga of ’Chandrahasa’ has been a popular play in the Yakshagana
repertoire for many decades now and has broadened the horizens of
Yakshagana .

The Story
Chandrahasa is the son of the king of Kerala. Having been born in the
Moolanakshatra he brings ill-luck to his parents. Both are killed by enemy
kings and Chandrahasa is saved and brought up by an old servant maid
who brings him to the city of Kuntala in Karnataka. Chandrahasa becomes
the favourite of the women in his neighbourhood and grows up receiving
much love from his foster-mother and other women. This part of the story
used to be enacted when the Yakshagana ’Charzdmhasa’ used to be played
throughout the night. Now, when the prasanga is usually played in a
truncated form, it starts from the Olaga scene (the durbar scene) of the
Chief Minister of Kuntala, Dushtabuddhi.

Dushtabuddhi gives a feast to the brahmins of the town to be ﬂattered by
them and to receive their blessings. He desires that his son Madana should
be married to Champamalini, daughter of the king of Kuntala, Subuddhi.

Dushtabuddhi shares this information with the audience in his very first
speech and waits for the brahmins to finish eating and come to bless him.
The brahrnins come to him after having had their fill and as they bless him
they see the orphan Chandrahasa playing in the street with other children.

