They are startled by the etherel beauty of this boy who shines like the moon
amongst the stars with his resplendant rajalakshanas (auspicious birthmarks of a future king). They forecast that Chandrahasa would become the
king of Kuntala, and go away.
The forecast haunts the mind of Dushtabuddhi like a spectre. He calls the
murderers at his service and bids them kill Chandrahasa. The murderers
take Chandrahasa deep into a forest to kill him but their hearts melt at the
helplessness of the child and his repeated prayers to Sri Krishna and the
Saligrama that he always has with him. Th 3y spy the sixth toe on his foot
and, while sparing his life, cut it off and take it to Dushtabuddhi as proof of
their having done their evil deed.
The king of Chandravati, Pulinda is on a hunting expedition with his Bedas
(a tribe of huntmen) and comes across this orphaned, kidnapped, bleeding

and abandoned child who is chanting Sri Krishna’s name in delirium. The
childless Pulinda (also a true bhakta of Krishna) adopts Chandrahasa as his
son. Chandrahasa, the apple of his foster-parents’ eye, brings luck and the
good times to the people of Pulinda. He grows up into a well—educated,
vigorous young prince and conquers many lands for his people. He also
Spreads the message of Krishna consciousness and bhakti everywhere.
Pulinda is a fendatory of the king of Kuntala, Subuddhi and Chandrahasa
sends tributes on his behalf to Dushtabuddhi, Subuddhi’s Chief Minister.

Dushtabuddhi gathers from what the bearers of the tributes say that
Chandrahasa is well and alive.
Dushtabuddhi has actually at that moment realised that his daughter has
reached a marriageable age and that she is yearning for a mate. He thus has
a new worry on his mind: he has to search a bridegroom for her. But he sets
aside all these worries and heads straight to Chandravathi. He is
determined to find a way to kill Chandrahasa and goes to Chandravathi to
see him for himself whether the boy who he had wanted killed years ago is
still alive. On seeing Chandrahasa his suspicions are confirmed and his
resolve hardened.
Dushtabuddhi then sends a letter through Chandrahasa to his son Madana
ordering Madana to kill Chandrahasa. Chandrahasa leaves for Kuntala
duly. When he arrives there he lies down to rest and dozes off in a park ——
on the outskirt of the city. Dushtabuddhi’s daughter Vishaya comes across
the sleeping youth and falls in love with him. She reads the letter in stealth
and out of curiosity even while Chandrahasa is sleeping . She reads the
words, ”give him Visha”, decides that there has been slip of the pen and
changes the word ’Visha’ to ’Vishaya’.
Madana then marries off Chandrahasa to Vishaya in all innocence.
Dushtabuddhi returns from Chandravathi and is furious when he learns of
what has happened. He rants at both Madana and Vishaya but is cunning

