’Chandrahasa’. It was not his intention to present ’Chandrahasa’ in the
original Yakshaana style but to familiarize the form to the students to suit
their previous training and regional theatre ethos, he told us.
adapt
Even the script was not ready in the beginning. We prepared to

ourselves to the style and temperament of this all time great theatre
personality. He used to provide the script in piece-meal form, which
lot of
created confusion and controversy. Here in the this stage we gained
ed to
experience separately in each department; design students confin
ts mugging
making sets, costumes and properties etc. and the acting studen
ence as
up their lines and pretending as characters. This was quite an experi

no technician or carpenter of the NSD came to our help. This alienation

of

st us.
us from the technical web of the NSD infused self-confidence among
e tensions, the staff
Despite the late night rehearsals and the usual last minut

a
of Rangayana stood with us whole-heartedly which boosted our morale
also
lot. But for them we should have been in a difficult predicament. We
gratefully remember at this state Shri Mahabala Hegade, the veteran
Yakshagana artiste who exhibited his style of ’Chandrahasa’, from which
Karanthji improvised his script for us. This helped us a great deal in
evolving our own methods and style. We also cannot forget the help
throughOut
rendered by Srinivasa Bhat and Bhooshan Bhat, coordinators

ed all
our Karnataka tour. Shri Vijayapal Vashisht of the NSD deftly manag
financial and administrative matters.

sness.
This was the first time, we all undertook a study tour in all its seriou
ds
All the petty bickerings, tensions and ill-feelings were wiped out towar
gained
have
we
ver
the end of the ’Chandrahasa’ demonstration. And whate
out of this tour, particularly from Karanthji and Dr. Shivarama Karanth,
will remain in our hearts in the years to come. When we bade farewell to
Rangayana on the night of the 14th we felt the theatre nucleus of twenty
of
plus the Rangayana Repertory was centrifugalling to different directions

India. And after loitering on the 15th at the garden city, Bangalore, we all
boarded to the beats of Indian Railways.

