script.

This is the most challenging stage of the preparation of a stageplay as minute

observations and their implementations help the creation to become a memorable one.
In earlier days, the producer (known as director in India) always preferred to act the
roles for the persons taking part and then ask them to copy or imitate the same. Well
one fails to understand about the success of this method as the producer is not expected

to be himself conversant of all kinds of acting styles required for different characters that
he would ask them to imitate. Nevertheless, this was the general practice and such
producers Were known as 'motionmasters’ in folkplays like the Jatras of Bengal. The
logic behind this system was that the actors and actresses of the good old days Were not
much educated, in general and such they did not have the capacity to comprehend a
character. This is the reason that the producer took pains to act for then during
rehearsals and then asked them to simply imitate. Now a days all educated people are
taking keen interest in stage acting who only require the producer’s assistance about
the nature of the creation of the role and the suitable style of acting for that so that the

producer may systematically co-ordinate the divergent styles of acting.
best efforts notwithstanding, unless the actors and actresses

of their hearts, the play nosedives to the level of ignominy.

The producer’s

are sincere from the core

Here the basic intelligence

and the art of memorising the roles play a very important part for the actors and
aC l.1‘C SSC S .

Come what may, the success of a play depends on the involvement of the
spectatots.

Stanislavsky felt that by real good acting the audience if forget about his

surroundings for a maximum of seven minutes in different stages, the play clicked.
Stanislavsky was himself afraid of a coughing audience

and advocated that when the

spectator would foget about coughing, the play would be a success.
“Worse still, sensing the disorder behind the scenes.

begins talking and,

In his own words,

the spectator becomes

noiss, and

especially, coughing during the performance, and there can be no

greater calamity for an actor than a coughing audience.”
However, theatre in India, in general and for that matter in Patna, in particular

has becom

badly hit by Doordarshan and spectators coming to witness a theatrical

performance spontaneously, has become a rare sight.

Earlier the ﬁlms drove away a

sizable theatre audience and yet the connoisseurs remained loyal to the art of stage.
Now, it appears, even the so-called intellectuals have also evaporated from drama
aud i tori u m s.

