DIRECTOR'S NOTE

As a director of the First Year students traini
ng production
It was my primary responsibility ‘m to conduct a study
oriented play

and not neccessarily to

‘aevolve something which may be termed as a

"perfect production".It has been my effort to provide experi
ence to as
many people as possible and even those students who have
been unable
so far to act because they are from a non—hindi linguistic backgr
ound
have been giien an opportunity to do on-stage work.
The play has a basic realistic structure through the choric

element (whether it's eastern or western is redundant) existing in the
form of direct conversation with the audience provides a kind
of objectivity to the realistic form. It is also a solution for the obviousl
y
melodramatic end where the sudden confession and an attempt at
saving the
guilty by taking the blame on to oneself has been made more than clicked
by now by the hindi films. I have attempted to subdue the entire scene
and reveal the stillness involved in such a situation. The crowd
moves
out and the charecters are isolated to heighten the tragic stature that
they have attained. It not only gallows students to become aware of
intense undertones but is in keeping with Tolstoy's notion of the Power
of
Crime which implies that the human reali.ation of one guilt can not be
3
showed and proclaimed but has to be sobre and still. Emphasis is given
to the drama both withen and without the individual charecters. The seed
of guilt in Sena and the duality in Chandan, the insecurity of Kuslo
is emphasized.
I have been observed by the notion of reversals in composition
and forms and through this the constant irony in space and time is revealed.
Thus similar composition are utilized to emphasized changed implications.
'he grouping of Chandan and Khslo snatching the money from Sona and later
Sena and Kuslo bounding Chandan to murder the child bring about the irony
of the situation with the accute intensity. This reversal in same areas
is implicit and constant though not neccessarily always as obvious.

""

R a Go

Bl’LJAJo

