Initiated as a part of Golden Jubilee Celebrations of India's Independence, the School organised the first ever National Theatre Festival of
India of its kind in 1999, which was christened Bharat Rang Mahotsav. The festival brought many a creative works together on a common

platform. The Mahotsav had as many as 60 plays from almost all parts of the country including productions of reputed Theatre Directors as
well as Younger generations. The month long festival drew an overwhelming response from the theatre enthusiasts from all over India.
Encouraged by the appreciation from all quarters, the NSD made a further effort to continue the endeavor by organizing Second Bharat Rang

Mahotsav 2000, from March 3 to April 1 1, 2000. The second Mahotsav was held on an even broader canvas and presented a more varied fair.
This time NSD managed to stage more than 83 plays (103 shows) in 40 days. NSD's third consecutive effort to make Bharat Rang Mahotsav
2001 was a success on the same big scale, reflecting the thematic trends and formalistic concerns of major theatre artistes working all over the

country.
BRM 2002 was inaugurated on March 16, 2002 by Bharat Ratna Sitar Maestro Pt. Ravi Shankar and it culminated on April 8, 2002. It

featured 130 theatre groups from across the country covering 24 States and 1 Union Territory, including 5 foreign groups. The Mahotsav

represented 22 Indian languages and 6 foreign languages including English. From the North East Region and West Bengal, there were 11
plays in Bangla, 5 in Assamese, 4 in Manipuri and 1 in Nagarnese.

The 5th Chapter of the Mahotsav was dedicated to the memory of late B. V. Karanth Who was a stalwart in the field of theatre with his

multifaceted personality as a passionate actor, director, music director and playwright. He passed away on September 1, 2002. The Mahotsav
was aptly inaugurated with the presentation of Rang Karanth, a series of music and songs composed by Karanth for various theatre
productions over the years. The inaugural performance of the Mahotsav started with the presentation of 'Babuji' directed by Karanth for Sri
Ram Centre. The Mahotsav 2003 was held from March 20 to April 8, 2003. In the BRM 2003, the focus was on the Western region

comprising Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Goa and Pondicherry 25 theatre groups from these States participated with their productions

mostly in their regional languages. The Mahotsav represented 18 Indian languages and 5 foreign languages including English.
The 6th Chapter of the Mahotsav was held from March 20 April 8, 2004. It was inaugurated by Shri Mrinal Sen, a renowned theatre and

ﬁlm personality. The inaugural ceremony was followed by the premier show of 'Hey Nungshibi Prithivi' presented by Chorus Repertory
Theatre, Imphal under the direction of Shri Ratan Thiyam. Festival featured 75 productions including 8 productions from abroad, such as,
Bangladesh, Germany, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Thailand. To coincide with the Festival, the School had also celebrating
the Silver

Jubilee of its Extension Program which has taken the theatre movement to the grass root level in various States. Some of the good
productions produced in the workshops conducted under the Extension Program were also included in the Mahotsav. To commemorate the
125th Birth Anniversary of Agha Hashra Kashmiri, the doyen of Parsi Theatre in the early 20th century, some prominent plays written by
him were also performed. The focus of the Festival was on Southern Region with the participation of 15 groups
from Karnataka, Andhra

Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Pondicherry.
This year NSD had instituted two annual awards, named 'B.V. Karanth Smriti
P uruskar' and 'Manohar Singh Smriti Puruskar' to honour the
eminent graduates of the School and the first awards were conferred to
Shri Ra tan Thiyam and Shri Waman Kendre on the occasion of the
inaugural ceremony of the festival. The Festival concluded
with the performance of 'Kalivesham' presented by Sopanam,
Thiruvananthapuram under the direction of Shri KN. Panikkar followed
by a 'Face to Face Interactive Session' with him.
The 7th Bharat Rang Mahotsav will be inaugurated on January 5, 2005
in Kamani auditorium, New Delhi. Ms. Zohra Segal, a renowned
film and theatre. personality will be the Chief Guest and Prof. U.R. Anantham
urthy, eminent scholar, writer and Jnanpthee Awardee and
Ms. Neena Ranjan, Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India will be the Guests of Honour
on the occasion. The inaugural ceremony
Will be followed by Rang Sangeet, a musical presentation
of NSD Repertory Company productions.
National School of Drama Society with the approval of Govt. of India has
instituted two annual awards named as 'B.V. Karanth Smriti
Puruskar' and 'Manohar Singh Smriti P uruskar' to honour two of its
graduates who have made outstanding contribution in the field of
theatre; one in the age group of 50 years and above and the other up to the
age of 50 years. The awards carries an amount of Rs.50,000/—
each, a citation and a memento. The seco nd awards will be conferred
to the two distinguished alumni of the School on the inaugural day of
the 7th B RM .

The Festival featured 56 productions including 4 theatre
rou s from b d,
l
'
the 7th BRM will be on the Hindi belt States of the Coung P
a ’03 SUC 1 35) Japan) N€Paly Paklsmn and BallgladCSho The focus 0 f
try.
The Festival conclud
. गा es with . an open house interactive session With Ms.
Uttara Baokar, eminen
'
t tl t
8( fl
'
l't f llowed 13

performance of Circus 2004 presented by the NSD Staff
under the direction of Shri Akhilesh Khannalea re

1 m Persona 1 y o

y

