Highlights of 7th Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2005
The Seventh Chapter of Bharat Rang Mahotsav is being inaugurated by Ms. Zohra Segal, eminent film & theatre
personality. Ms. Neena Ranjan, Secretary (Culture), Govt. of India will be the Guest of Honour on the occasion.

The

Screening Committee,

after witnessing live

performances

and screening of around

200 VHS/CD5,

recommended 56 productions representing various regions and languages from across the country including 6
productions from of foreign theatre groups.

The festival features performances of 56 theatre groups from across the country, covering 16 States, 2 Union
Territories and 6 groups from abroad such as Japan, Russia, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

The festival represents 16 Indian languages as well as 4 foreign languages including English.

The focus of 7th Bharat Rang Mahotsav is on the Hindi belt States of the country with the participation of more
than 22 plays in Hindi region.

The performances have been scheduled in different venues, such as Kamani, Sri Ram Centre, Abhimanch and

Sammukh/Bahumukh in Bahwalpur House. We have also tried to keep the timings in various venues in such a way
that the audiences are able to witness most of the performances.

“Meet the Director”, interactive session with the directors of the productions will be held in Antarmukh everyday
from 11.00 am. onwards.

NSD has instituted two annual awards; one to be conferred to a senior alumni of NSD and the other to a young

graduate up to age group of 50 years. The first awards will be conferred to the nominees on the occasion of the
inaugural ceremony of the 7th BRM.

The festival will conclude with an open house interactive session with eminent theatre personalities Ms. Surekha

Sikri and Ms. Uttara Baokar followed by the performance of 'Circus 2004' directed by Akhilesh Khanna and
presented by the staff of NSD. The earlier festivals concluded with similar open house interactions with eminent
directors like, Shri Habib Tanvir (2000), Shri B.V. Karanth (2001), Shri Ratan Thiyam (2002), Smt. Vijaya Mehta

(2003) and Shri K.N. Panikkar (2004).

