Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2003

Shri Soumitra Chatterjee,

Started in 1999 by the School as part of the Golden Jubillee Celebrations of India's

renowned actor of bengali theatre G’ﬁlm
inaugurated the 5th Bharat Rang Mahotsav

Independence, Bharat Rang Mahotsav has come a long way and has made signiﬁcant
contribution to galvanizing the theatre movement in the country. The 5th Chapter of

the Mahotsav was dedicated to the memory of late B.V. Karanth who was a stalwart
in the field of theatre with his multifaceted personality as a passionate actor, director,
music director and playwright. He passed away on September 1 , 2002. The
Mahotsav was aptly inaugurated with the presentation of Rang Karanth, a series of

music and songs composed by Karanth for various theatre productions over the years.
The inaugural performance of the Mahotsav started with the presentation of 'Babuii'
directed by Karanth for Sri Ram Centre.

BRM 2002 focused on theatre from North—East region and West Bengal, In The
BRM 2003, the focus was shifted to Western region comprising Maharashtra,

Gujrat, Rajasthan, Goa and I’ondicherry. 25 theatre groups from these States
participated with their productions mostly in their regional languages. In all it

featured 87 theatre groups from various parts of the country covering 17 States, 2
Union Territories and 5 group from abroad, such as, Germany, Japan, Singapore, Sri
Lanka and Mauritius. The Mahotsav represented 18 Indian languages and 5 foreign
languages including English. As part of the festival, an exhibition of traditional
turbans "I’agadi", light 85 sound equipments, costumes, properties etc. was
0 rgan i zed .

The Mahotsav 2003 was held from March 20 to April 8, 2003 and was inaugurated
by Padam Shri Soumitra Chatteriee, a renowned theatre and film personality. The
guests of Hounour of the Mahotsav were Smt. Bhavnaben D. Chikhalia, Hon'ble

Minister of State for Tourism 86 Culture, Govt. of India and l’adrna Vibhushan l’t.
Shiv Kumar Sharma, an internationally acclaimed Santoor artiste. The festival

concluded with the screening of the play 'Shakuntala' Directed by eminent theatre
director, Smt. Vijaya Mehta, followed by a 'Face to Face' dialogue with Smt. Mehta.

