Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2002

Bharat Rama Sitar Maestro

Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2002, the 4th in the series was held from March 16 to April

Pt. Ravi Shankar inaugurated

the 4th Bharat Rang Mahotsav

8, 2002. It was inaugurated by Bharat Ratna Sitar Maestro Pt. Ravi Shankar. With
the Mahotsav movement gaining momentum, the School has endeavoured to
introduce some new features in the successive Mahotsavs.

Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2002 was given an International window. Five foreign groups,
one each from Bangladesh, South Korea, Germany, Israel and Mauritius participated

with their prestigious productions. In pursuance of a policy decision, theatre from
North East Region including West Bengal was given a special focus. There were 11
plays in Bengali, 5 in Assamese, 4 in Manipuri and l in Nagarnese. In all, it featured
130 theatre groups including some street plays covering 24 States, I union Territory
and 5 foreign groups. The Mahotsav represented 22 Indian languages including
English. For purpose of documentation, a compilation under the title of "Bharat
Rang Mahotsav IV, an Overview" was brought out. Besides the overview of the
Mahotsavs held in 1999, 2000 and 2001, the publication serves the purpose of a
compendium of brochures of the plays performed during the Mahotsav. It gives a
synopsis of the plays performed, directors' career profile, background of the
participating theatre groups etc.

Another publication which brought out for the first times is a compilation of print
media's reviews on BRM 2002 appearing in popular national dailies. These have
been culled out and documented in a readable form. This compilation gives the

reader an objective picture of the media's assessment of the Bharat Rang Mahotsav
2002. It will also serve as a useful document for the scholars engaged in research
in

the discipline of theatre.

The Festival concluded with "Face to Face Dialogue" with eminent theatre
director,
Shri Ratan Thiyam. It provided an opportunity to theatre lovers, artists
and media
people to have a healthy interactive session with Shri Ratan Thiyam.

