Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2001

His excellency
Shri K.R. Narayanan, Hon'ble President

oflndia inaugurated the 3rd Bharat Rang Mahotsav

Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2001, the 3rd in the series was held from March 16 to April 8,
2001. As in the past, the venues of the Festival were Kamani Auditorium, Shri Ram
Centre for Art 8C Culture, Meghdoot Open Air Theatre (Rabindra Bhawan),
Abhirnanch Auditorium and Studio No. 2. The last two auditoriurns are located in
Bahawalpur House, the seat of NSD. The Festival was inaugurated by his excellency
Shri KR. Narayanan, President of India, at Siri Fort Auditorium - on March 16, 2001

at 6.00 pm. and presided over by Shri Ananth Kumar, Hon'ble Minister for Tourism
& Culture. The formal inauguration was followed by a theatrical presentation named
as 'Rang Vividha' of about one hour duration.
A good number of theatre groups from various parts of the country were vying to
participate in the Mahotsav with their productions. But due to constraints of time and
financial resources, it was not feasible to accommodate all of them. However, efforts
were made to make the festival truly representative of the contemporary theatrical
scene in India. Theatre Companies from various regions including Assam, West
Bengal, Maharashtra,

Karnatka,

Kerala, etc.

participated with

their prestigious

productions. For the first time, a theatre group from Leh (Ladakh) performed 'Nangsa

Otbum' (a Jataka). The two renowned octogenarians K.N. I’anikkar and Habib Tanvir
made their presence felt with their productions. Panikkar had presented two plays
'Karnabharam' in Sanskrit and 'Tempest' in Malayalam; whereas Habib Tanvir's play
'Hirma Ki Amar Kahani' gave a befitting finale to the Festival on April 6—7, 2001 . The
penultimate day of the Mahotsav was embellished by B.V. Karanth's Kannada play
'Gokul Nirgaman'. In between there were plays by other eminent theatre personalities.
To name a few, Ratan Thiyam, Shyamanand Jalan, M.K. Raina, Bansi Kaul, Bhanu
Bharti, Rudra Prasad Sengupta, Rajinder Nath, Anuradha Kapur, Naseeruddin Shah,
Nadira Zaheer Babbar, Satish Alekar, Usha Ganguli, B. Jayashree. Saoli Mitra, Bibhash
Chakraborty, Waman Kendre, etc., were lending their might to the Mahotsav with
their productins, The Festival concluded with an open house interaction session with

veteran theatre director Shri B.V. Karanth. It provide an opportunity to the theatre
lovers and artists to have a nice evening with Shri B.V. Karanth.

