About the Play
Lahron ke Rajhans ( | 963) is inspired by the Sanskrit epic poem Saundarananda by
Asvaghosa. Set In Kapilavastu, it is the story of the Buddha's step-brother Nand and
his spouse Sundari. Nand seeks self-fulﬁllment and hovers between the ascetic
renouncernent preached by the Buddha and the earthly beauty of the self-willed
Sundari.

On the day of Buddha's return, his wife Yashodhara has also decided to join the
Bhikshunis. At the same time, Sundari is holding a 'Kamotsav'. She is humiliated
because none of the guests attend.

The play presents the ensuing conﬂict between Nand and Sundari.

Director’s Note
The relationship between man and woman, particularly it's essential conﬂict has
been central to the plays of Mohan Rakesh. It was romantic in Ashadh ka Ek Din
which was retained in the original version of Lahron ke Rajhans developing into the
confrontation in this revised version.This culminated into a conﬂict of many levels
and many forms in AdheyAdhurey.

Lahron Ke Rajhans was revised during my rehearsal of the play in I966. During the
rehearsal we had no idea of the direction the play will ultimately take. We were
proceeding on the basis of our impression from the original version, which in
hindsight appears to be so grotesque, though the play had been staged — the
approach was on the impression of the original version. At that time I had an idea
I shall direct the play again after a few years. I am happy to do it again, even after 4|
years.
I now perceive the relationship between Nand and Sundari as one between an
elderly man and a young woman. Nand is very indulgent towards her: He is deeply
distressed by the challenge she poses to Buddha by holding 'Kamotsav'- the festival
of desire on the ﬁrst day he returns to the city after attaining Nirvana. But Nand
does not interfere, rather tries to save her from getting hurt by her abject failure.
Sundari is a very proud woman. She represents all that is beautiful and desirable
while Buddha stands for renunciation and negation of desire.The conﬂict of Nand,
which is essentially the conﬂict of a man between these two forces. becomes a
counter point to the essential conﬂict between a man and a woman.

I have tried to retain the core of the conﬂict not only in the production but also in
the entire design of the play. the sets, the costume and the make—up. l n fact. there are

