Oth e rwo rd 5
I 3th February. 2008

It was a pleasure to watch Padatik's Lahron Ke Rajhans last week directed by!
Shyamanandjalan.The earlier production of the same play directed by him in I 966
for Anarnika was the first production of the play.The playwright Mohan Rakesh at the instance of Jalan. revised the text. especially the 3rd Act. One could feel the
change that the Hindi theatre has gone through in the last four decades. Text
remaining the same on both the occasions. the treatment was different. It was a
mature blending of classic and modern. traditional and contemporary old and
new. In all his 3 plays. Ashadh Ka Ek Din. Laharon Ke Raajahansa and Aadhay
Adhure. Rakesh deals with the man-woman relationship. If we think about that in
the order that they were written. in Aashadh. it is all sweet. soft and emotional. InLaharon. conflict and discontent creep into the character and in Aadhe it is
disagreement and discontent through and through. From this point of view. it
poses quite a task before the director and the actors to portray their inner
turmoil convincingly. especially with the strong confrontation between Nanda and
Sundari that has crept in after revision. I have always felt uncomfortable with that
and the same was the case in the present production also. Except that. it was a
memorable production seen after a long time.
Sundari played by Anubha Fatehpuria portrayed the character in all its adversity
very convi nci ngly. with ease and grace. Her breaking down in the end was effective.

Nanda. though much stronger than Kalidas (Aashadh) and Mahendra Nath
(Aadhey). has to struggle With both the outer and the inner turmoil. Torn
betWeen his love for Sundari and'respect and regard for Gautam Buddha. he is an
embodiment of suffering. Vinay Sharma was convincing except in the end. when
Nands has to become (at the command of the playwright) aggressive and be a
different man than what he was till then.

The whole decor and music was strange combination of lndian-ness and going
beyond that. It was all soothing to the eyes and melodious to the ears.
Congratulations to Shyarnanand for his imaginative and sensitive handling of the
play and his entire cast and crew for this beautiful production.

Dr. Pratibha Agarwal

16

