Bertolt Brecht was born at Augsberg in 1898. He has educated, like most middle-class German boys, at
primary and secondary school, and studied science for less than a year at Munich University before he was
called up in 1918, for service as a medical orderly in the First World War. He came home in 1919 to a
Germany that was defeated and badly disorganized. From the beginning his sympathies were with the
communists. Even more certainly, if we are to judge from his work, he was against the rising Nazi movement;
but he was a creative artist more than a politician.
Like Shakespeare, Brecht was a man of the theatre from the beginning of his career. In 1920 he was a
kind of dramatic adviser to a leading Munich theatre, and worked with some of the greatest and most

original producers of the century. He produced several plays of his own, which always met with angry
criticism because of their political pessimism, but The Three Penny Opera, in 1928, was an outstanding
success. This play is an up-to-date version of The Beggars’ Opera, a famous eighteenth-century English
musical play by John Gay. Gay had used the highwayrnen and shady characters of the London underworld
to satirize leading politicians. Brecht turns the play into a skit on capitalist society. It is both grim and gay.
’ With catchy tunes and quotable phrases Brecht celebrates the attitude of the unheroic ordinary man-halt
exasperated, half amused, and altogether disillusioned — when times have been too hard and political morality
too low for too many years.
'
His next plays were more pointedly communist in ﬂavor. The Mother (1932) is based on a novel of
Maxim Gorky’s about a working — class woman in the Russian revolution. It was too effective for the
Nazis, who came to power early in the following year. All Brecht’s work was banned in Germany, and he
himself and his family had to get out of the country.
In 1933 he settled in Denmark, but in 1939, when the second world war was beginning, he got a visa for
the United States, and went there, travelling eastward so as to take a 100k at the USSR on the way. He lived
in the USA till the war was over and Europe was beginning to recover; then, in 1949, he settled down in
East Germany, and stayed there, except for occasional visits abroad, for the rest of his life. In Berlin he built
up a dramatic company, the Berliner Ensemble, to try out his own ideas of dramatic production, and in
1954 the authorities gave him the use of a theatre to experiment in. In 1956, just when his company had
arranged a visit to London, he died in Berlin of coronary thrombosis.

Brecht wrote in German, and not all his work has yet been translated into English. He published a few
books of poetry and one or two novels, but it is the plays that have made him internationally famous. Of
these, perhaps the most celebrated are. The Life of Galileo (written in 1937—9 and revised in 1945-7), The
Good Woman of Setzuan (1938-40), Mother Courage (1939)— a different play from The Mother— and The

Caucasian Chalk Circle ( 1945). All of them in. one way or another treat the theme of revolutionary struggle,
but they axe too full of human experience and sympathy to be doctrinaire tracts. They are not in the least
like the conventional modern notion of a play, for Brecht was. full of new ideas about the writing and
production of plays for our revolutionary age. Some of these ideas are touched on in the Commentary at the
end of this book (and an alert reader with some experience of the stage may discover a few more in the play
itself); but they are too far—reaching to be discussed at all adequately in a book of this size.

‘Great’ is astrong word, not to be used lightly of a contemporary writer. Even so, many critics, by no
‘ means all of them communists: think that Brecht it anyone ‘will take his place as the great dramatist of our
century.

