Born on 7 July 1929 in a traditional feudal family he was educated at Mayo College and in 1948 passed
Senior Camboidge. In Mayo College, he had joined the Dramatic Society. After having passed Senior
Cambridge, He made a journey to Bombay to try his luck in Films. He worked in a production with Hira
Films, in two films, Sholey directed by B. R. Chopra and Chandni Chowk also directed by B .R. Chopra. In
1953 he returned to Jaipur and started the very ﬁrst theatre group in Jaipur known as Jaipur Theatre Group.
This in fact was the beginning of modern theatre in Jaipur and probably in Raj asthan. In 1960 he started a
theatre magazine Natraj from Allahabad. Then he joined Bhartiya Natya Sangh as its Executive Secretary.

In 1965 when Bhartiya Natya Sangh started breaking up he went back to Jaipur and joined Rajasthan
Sangeet Natak Akademi as its special officer for programmes. My innings with Rajasthan Sangeet Natak
Academy came to all end in 1970. Once again he made a trip to Delhi and joined Yatrik.
This was the time when he came in contact with Barry John, Marxus Tirch, M . K. Raina, B .M . Shah and
others.

In 1976 he was sent to Mauritius as the cultural advisor. Come back to India and started working as a
freelance theatre worker and as a writer.
He joined Indian Peoples Theatre Association. He is also a member of Progressive writes Association.
Ranvir Singh

अनुवादक
7 जुलाई 3929 को एक पारमपरिक परिवार में आपका जन्य हुआ और मेयो महाविद्यालय में शिक्षा प्राप्त की।

सन् 3948 में सोनिया कैमब्रिज़ से उत्तोंण हुए I मयों महाविद्यालय मेँ आप नाट्य सोसाइटी के मेम्बर बने I फिर फिल्मों

में अपनी किस्मत आज-याने मुम्बई गए । ब. र. चौपड़ा की दो फिल्मों (शोले और चान्दनी चौक) मे ०1०1५ किया।
3953 मॅ जयपुर लौटकर जयपुर के सर्वप्रथम संस्था जयपुर थीयेटर गुप की स्थापना की। ये जयपुर बल्कि राजस्थान

मे आधुनिक रंगमंच की शुरूआत थी। 3960 मे इलाहाबाद से 'नटराज' नामक रंगमंच पत्रिका एपी शुरु की I फिर
आप भारतीय नाट्य संघ से जुडे । फिर आप दिल्ली और 'यांत्रिक' से जुडे ।
इसी समय इनकी मुलाकात जैरी दानि, म. क. रैना, बृ. मी. शाह इत्यादी है हुई I फिर आप इच्छा से जुडे ।
रणबीर सिह

