Hazarimal, the rich man, in the neighborhood is in love with her act of kindness. Shanti Bai herself is in love
with Ram Singh. She buys a new shawl to please Ram Singh. The owner of the cloth shop g1ves her twenty
thousand rupees to help her, Shanti Bai does not notice Jagdeesh's broken hand. Everyone turns a deaf ear. for
being the eyewitness to the incident. Shanti Bai agrees to be the eyewitness herself, to which Jagdeesh IS 111 a
dilerna and goes to the lawyer. Basanti rushes to inform Hazarirnal. Shanti kicks out everyone.
Ram Singh’s mother comes to take 20,000 rupees from Shanti Bai to secure Ram Singh’s post as pilot.
Scene 5
Basanti is working now in Shanti Bai’s shop. She alerts and warns Sheetla Prasad of the coming danger
of Ram Singh and Shanti Bai’s affair and she tells of Hazarimal’s interest in Shanti Bai.
Ram Singh comes to the shop. He wants 30,000 more. Sheetla Prasad comes to know that Ram Singh
does not truly love Shanti Bai. Basanti calls Hazarimal. While they are talking, Jagdish comes with a
policeman. Sheetla Prasad refuses outright of Shanti Bai’s being his witness. Hazarimal and Sheetla Prasad
agree to have a conversation with Shanti Bai for their marriage. .
Shanti Bai is preparing for her marriage and as she goes out she meets the old woman. Her husband had
fallen ill after giving the money. But Shanti B ai had given the money to Ram Singh so she is unable to return it.
Scene 6

It is Shanti Bai and Ram Singh’s marriage but Ram Singh and his mother are waiting for Sheetla Prasad
and the money. Shanti Bai says that she and Sheetla Prasad cannot come together and refuses to sell the
shop. Everyone goes away.

,

Jagdish brings Khatis' son for help. She tells him that she is expecting Ramsingh's child but that he should
not be told. Her friends come back and keep some stock in her house. They ask her not to tell anyone.

Scene 7

.
Shanti Bai decides to leave the shop and is packing. Basanti advises to fight tooth and nail instead of
giving up. Sheetla Prasad’s entry creates fear among all. He refuses to sell the shop and asks Khati to work
for him.
Basanti on seeing the dhoti worn by Sheetla Prasad gets suspicious of the Shanti Bai and Sheetla
Prasad's secret.
Jagdeesh in his dream tells the Gods about Shanti Bai’s distress because of the rules lain down by them.
Scene 8
Sheetla Prasad is now tobacco king. He runs a Bidi factory in Hazarimal's cowshed and has employed
all. Ram Singh gets promotion from worker to foreman through sheer sincerity and truth.
Scene 9

Shanti Bai’s shop is now converted into a furnished office. Basanti knowing of her secret comes to
stay
with her in all her problems.
Jagdish wants to ﬁnd out about Shanti Bai. He discloses the secret of her expecting a child to
Rarnsingh.

He returns with the policeman. Shanti Bai’s clothes make the others suspect Sheetla Prasad to be a
murderer.
Sheetla Prasad is taken to the police station. Jagdish talks to the Gods and says that he met Shanti
in his
dreams and she requested him to rescue her from Sheetlaprasad. The Gods want to search
out Shanti.
Scene 10

Sheetla Prasad faces the Gods as judges. Mrs. Karorimal, Hazarimal, Ram Singh’s
mother and Ram
Singh are in Sheetla Prasad’s favor while the rest of the people are all against
him and demand for Shanti
Bai. Sheetla Prasad pleads the court to be emptied so that she could disclose
her secret.
Sheetla Prasad discloses herself and pleads the gods to stay back and
give her strength.

