GURUDAKSHINA
The play centres around four disciples and a Guru. On completion
of their education the disciples insist on the Guru accepting a Gurudakshina
from them as a token of their love and admiration for the Guru. The Guru
declines any present from them. The disciples remain adamant. The
Guru finally relents and agrees to accept any help from them if it related
to the restoration of eyesight to his blind daughter. The disciples in a
chorus agree to fulfil this wish by going into the forest to look for a certain
flower the juice of which would restore the eyesight to the Guru’s
daughter.

The disciples in their search for the flower encounter various
experiences in the forests. They dig a place where the magic feather
given to them by the Guru fell. Violating the wish of the Guru not to open
the casket, Vikraman , Veeran and Sakthan , open their caskets and found
gold for Sakthan, Bronze for Vikraman and Silver for Veeran. The three
friends quarrel over this accusing the others for inter changing the boxes
surreptiously with the intention of getting gold. Each one believes that

the others have fooled him.
In the meantime the fourth disciple Susheelan and his monkey

friend Anilan befriend the other monkeys in the forest with whose help
they manage to reach the interior of the forest where the mystery flower
was being guarded by powerful nymphs who had been cursed to remain
still until a young man, noble in character would come one day and touch
them. Susheelan touches the nymphs one after another who come to life
and these grateful nymphs help Susheelan in getting the flower. A

triumphant Susheelan walks back with the flower. On the way the other
three snatch the flower from him and they ruSh to the Guru with the
flower. The Guru was baffled to note that the Girl did not regain her eye
sight even after the flower was applied on her eyes. At this stage there
appears Susheelan accompanied by a group of nymphs of the forests and
the forest itself. The Guru tells him to take the flower in his hand and
apply it on her eyes Lo !. there it happens, the girl gets back her vision.
The frightened Veeran, Vikrarnan and Sakthan try to flee but the forest

carries them away to the forest.
—Directed by K. Kochunarayana Pillai

