‘PONNUMKUDOM’ (THE URN OF GOLD)
Once upon a time the kingdom of ‘Sukapuram’ was ruled by a king
and he had a little daughter Mallika. She was rnotherless from her earlier
years and the king was highly affectionate to her. The girl had a
companion — a white kitten, named ‘Poumami’.
One day the king and his minister were playing chess.

The minister admits defeat in favour of the king. Then the wailing
of a crowd is heard outside and after sometime the crowd in front of which
is Mallika and accompanied by the commander—irmhief, servants of the
palace and some other people as a procession, enters. They continue
their crying. The king enquire about the matter to the commander-in-

chief. The commander says that he doesn’t know the matter as he just
started weeping on seeing Mallika weeping. And Mallika tells the king that

her kitten was insulted by a black boy in the market place.
The king is furious and orders to present the black boy before him.
But then a problem arises, how to identify the black boy. The King finds
a solution, that is to put all black boys of the country in the jail. He orders
accordingly.

The minister enters looking tired and worried. Then he announces
the sad news that Millika was found missing. The king announces that
those who find out his missing daughter will be awarded a pot-ful of gold
coins.

No progress in tracing his missing daughter. The kitten of Mallika

cries and the king was furious hearing the untimely crying of the kitten.
They open the cupbroad and find Malliga in an unconscious condition.
She said that while she was trying to take out something from the alrnir
ah
its door got automatically closed and nobody noticed it.

A question arises here; who is to be awarded the reward for finding
Mallika ? Mallika suggests a way. All the black boys who were
put in the
jail should be released and the King should share the gold coins
among
the boys. Mallika says that she experienced mysery, the mise
ry of lack of
freedom in the darkness of the cupboard. The king
agrees.

——Directed by Prof. S. Ramanujan

