UMMAKKI
Escorted by the alarning noise of children a man having the
appearance of a lunatic appears. The children chase him and shout
‘Ummakki, Ummakki’ (evil).

They suspect that he is Urnmakki. So they decide to inspect him.
They decide to make up the man in a special manner and to take him
on a procession throughout the village. .‘Ummakki’ says that he is not

Ummakki, but a poor man. But people call him Ummakki seeing his
appearance. But what led to his present pathetic condition? The
Ummakki begins to till his story :

He was a poor farmer. One day he had a desire, to earn some
money and to improve his life. What is the way to earn money? It so
happened in one night when he was fast asleep a goat woke him up and
spoke to him like a human being. The goat asks him whether he does

not want to become rich. Hearing the term ‘money’ he suddenly raises
from his head. The goat is standing as usual. He is angry and begins to
beat the goat. but the goat in the sound of a man says that he is beating

his fortune. It points out three jars. He will become the owner of the jars
only when he could fill the third jar.

The Urnrnakki decides to take Out the gold from the first jar. He
approaches the first jar and opens it. But contrary to his expectation,

first smoke and then the head of a snake raise from the jar. He was
frightened. Then he hears a laugh at the entrance and there he sees the
goat. He becomes furious and drags the goat and stabs it to death. Then

he opens the second jar and from it a terrifying head of a devil rises and
it roars. The head says that he can’t open the jars before filling the third
jar.

Urnrnakki tries his best to fill the third jar but in vain. So he can’t
own the first and second jars containing gold and pearls. He has spoiled
all his energy and resources to fill the third jar and now he is even starving
for his food.

Ummakki understands that greed to earn money without working
has spoiled his life. He has lost all his wealth because of his greed.
—-Directed by Dr. N. Radhakrishnan

