Nandikar will soon be 55 years old. As a theatre organisation
it is about to enter its middle age. Fortunately, Nandikar has
been able to keep itself active.
Apart from regular theatre productions and performances,

Nandikar is working with children from the slums and the
pavements and also with the children who are visually
handicapped. For the last seven years, Nandilkar has been
imparting training in about a dozen schools in various parts
of Bengal every year. So far it has been able to organise eleven
National Theatre Festivals since 1984. Since 1986 it has
uninterruptedly organised theatre training for the youth.
This quantity and diversity could be achieved mainly for one
reason: the young people of Nandikar have been able to
combine the importance of dream and respect in their daily
labour. As the seniormost in Nandikar, I am proud of them.
This pride has increased a hundredfold with the happening of
‘Meghanadbadh Kabya‘. When the waves of a faceless
multinational consumerism are trying to engulf the cultural
scenes of our ‘Hupasi Bangla’, our young Goutam Halder,
along with Swatilekha, Debshankar, Parthapratim and
others, has dreamt about producing Meghanadbadh Kabya
and he has made this dream come true. This gift has made us
tremendously happy. The enthusiam' and encouragement
shown to these young persons by our respected seniors like
Khaled Chowdhur , Tapas Sen, Sankha Ghosh, Hanjit
Bandyopadhyay have doubled our happiness. On behalf of
them and on behalf of all the other seniors, I offer my
blessings to the endeavour of the young in Nandikar. And I
welcome you, dear spectators, to this arena of self-discovery.

HUDRAPRASAD SENGUPTA

SYNO PS I S
King Havana of Lanka, seated amidst his courtiers, breaks
down at the news of the death of his son Birabahu who had
been at war with Hamachandra. The patriot in Havana is
proud for his valiant son meeting a hero’s death while the
eternal father in him weeps. The inconsolable mother of
Birabahu accuses Havana. And the King, humiliated and
abused, himself prepares for the war. Hearing about this,
Meghanad, another son of Havana, forgetting the luxury of his

pleasure-garden, goes to Lanka to dissuade his father and to
lead the battle himself. Havana ceremoniously appoints
Meghanad as the Commander-in—Chief and Indrajit solemnly
vows to destroy Hama the very next morning.

To protect the Gods’ favourite Hamachandra, Hajlakshmi,
though worshipped by Havana, alerts the God of Gods, Indra,
of this impending disaster. Indra now plans the destruction of
Meghanad the invincible war-hero. He, with his wife Indrani,
goes to Devi Durga so that she may influence her husband,
Lord Shiva, to deprive the Hakshasa dynasty of his benign
protection and favour Hamachandra instead. Shiva tells
Durga the strategy to kill Meghanad and the way of getting
access to the weapons. The Gods of might and strength
contrive a smooth arrangement so that Hamachandra
receives these divine weapons that very night.
In her abode, Pramila is awaiting anxiously and restlessly the
return of her husband Meghanad. She goes to Lanka with a
huge army of Hakshasa women, caring not the least for

Hamachandra or his army. In awe of this terribly-beauteous

female-army, Hanumana, Vibhishana and Hamachandra
stand apart to make a safe passage for them.
Indra, to leave no stone unturned, wants to make use of the

Goddess Maya’s ‘Indrajal’ (Sorcery) to save the Haghava
dynasty. His will prevails and Lakhsmana acquires the
ultimate blessings from Devi Chandi.
Pramila and Meghanad remain unaware of this intricate
intrigue between Man and God. Meghanad sets out towards

the Nikumbhila temple (Holy Shrine of Fire) to chant his
prayers, fortified by his mother’s blessings, his wife’s
undaunted love and his own valour.
What happens next is simple and sad. Lakshmana, not by his
own strength, but armed with God’s favour and the cunning ‘of
Maya, nurders an unarmed Meghanad cruelly, brutally. As
ever, God’s power rules over human valour and destiny!

Everyone is present at the sea-shore with brimming eyes. All
arrangements have been made for the royal cremation. The
chaste Pramila will join her husband in the pyre. The entire
atmosphere is one of intense grief as though the goddess of
Lanka has been brought for immersion. A memorial of gold,
made by millions of Hakshasa craftsmen present there, is
being set up in the cremation ground, the glory ofwhich is not
to be defaced by Time.

