O

कि

बू ‘Anji’ "f a Portrait of the new woman ८ "
-

By Zeno

- ।

'

.

A MOST remarkable play which are changing our human con. is . currently showing at the dition beyond recognition.
'८ Open Air Theatre of Bagh-i~ ' Dehumanisation of our social re-

Jinnah. It is unlike anytl'dng
that has been done there for

' a long time.‘
Anji (short for Anjuman Ara, the
name of the heroine) is an‘uninhibited, light-hearted spoof on the
‘ uncertain fate of . today’s middle:
class working woman caught up in
x the stormy contradictions of our

' rapidly changing urban. society.
The. play has been put up by a
Karach‘i theatre group in coopera-

sufficient economic unit, earning another woman without any reher own keep. But the traditional ' sponsibilities, It is‘ a ‘dangerous
loyalties in most cases compel her game for her, because she is naive
ality is one of the important themes to work as the bread-winner of the and inexperienced 'while he is a
of the new drama. A most disturb- family. Like Anji she provides for ‘ master of his art.
'
7 ३३ '
ing aspect of it is the anachronistic the needs of her old parents, her
'And that is’ the tragic part ‘of_ her
position of the “new woman” in our younger brothers and sisters, and story. Forced into a sordid and un; ३ .
“new society.” In Pakistan, her sometimes must also do the wanted relationship, Anji is de? situation has particularly poignant ५ cooking. '
'
feated in her most serious venture
forms due tdthe multiplicity of our
That is how Anji, like thousands 'to‘ land herself a husband, and resocial and ' political oppressions. of such dutiful daughters; is on the turns to her family. Her sister
’Looked at from above, from the way to turning into an old maid. Manji (Nighat Butt), grbwn into a
vantage point of- ladies of the Working her fingers to the borie fat and cynical housewife आमि"
privileged sections, the anguish of providing for the needs of every- children squalling all around her,
the “new woman” is ३ concerned body she has also helped marry off advises her [to stOp being choosy
mostly with the metaphysical and two younger sisters, thus postpon- and like herself pick up somebody . ३ ' I V
legalistic issues of women’s libera- ing her own chanc s of marriage. in the common run of husband-

tion with Lahore’s Ajokq'I'heatre, a
body of serious minded players tion vis-‘a-vis a patriarchal male- While her sisters have become breadwinners before she is beyond
.who have been making earnest ef- dominatéd social order.
mothers, she is still looking for a redemption.
'
r
'

.

" »

. ३३

j

Even atthis level the conflict has husband.
forts to take the theatre in Lahore
‘५
But this kind of 'enslavement is 7.
The old father and mother have
out of the rut of commercialised its theatrical angles (mostly comic)
a though here the conﬂict is at given up all hope of getting a suit- no longer; the life that Anji ispre- ’
vulgarity into which it has s'unk.‘
pared to accept. She“has rejected ' t
Anji has already had a successful in st a struggle «of the privileged 'able match for a girl who is so un- the life of a girl about town offered
run in Karachi. It is a highly profes- against the privileged of a neo- enterprising. Perhaps, they are not
her by a happy go lucky office cornsional, polished production of a ' colonial state, and it is ckrried on very serious to get her off their panion Afzal Malik (Rana Fawad). ‘
masterpiece with an all round with a more or less gentlenianly, or hands for more selfish reasons, and Her search for a husband has ended
' yet must nag her all the time for her
magnificent standard of acting. Its gentlewomanly, propriety.
up in a traumatic experience which
It is at the lower levels, however, unmarried state. So she must also
presentation in Lahore is a brave
might frighten her off from male
that
we
come
across.
the
real
_
become
a
match-maker
for
herself.
undertaking, given the spoilt taste
company for the rest of her life.
of our ,Zinda Dilan, who in recent brutalisation of women’s position. That is why, when we first meet What then is theway out for her?
.
‘
The
breakup
of
the
joint
family
Anji
(played
by
Sheema
Kirmani
years have got usdd to farcical slap
That is the question,(a rhetdricalv हाँ A
household,
and
the
economic
comwith marvellous skill and vitality)
and dash affairs full of ribald dialo—
one I presume) with Which the play
gue, inconsequential plots and pulsions leading to more and more in the play we find her in the highly ends., It is net askedby Anji, but by क्वें है
educated
and
semi-educated
young
,comic (for our society) role of a
cheap ivhorseplay as the height of
Ravi (Khalid Ahmed), the narrator ५ "
women seeking jobs as office young woman investigating the
excellence in the theatre.
who in many ways is the inost 1126 ५ .
clerks,
steno-typists,
receptionists,
eligibility (parentage, character,
Anji on the contrary, is a thought
portant, and the most enjOyabl‘eoperators, ८ nurses, earning capacity) of a prospective
provoking satire in the highly de- telephone
personage in the play. He alsti developed tradition of modern drama schoolteachers, etc have created a . bridegroom for herself.
termines the form of 'the ‘show i
The play is about both the comic
which has matures in the post- new type of middle class woman.
which is presented a'sa story told ३ .- r i
She has been liberated, or half and the tragic aspects of Anji’s
independence Indian theatre. It is
by the ballad singers of old. '
an adaptation 'of' a play by the liberated, from the traditional so- search for a husband. Having excelebrated Marathi playwright; cial and behavioural constraints, hausted the list of suitable candi- ‘ 1(11ठानुएँ… Ahmed, who plays this ३
Vijay ,Tendulkar, one of the and at the . same time Venslaved by dates and drawn a blank every- role (apart from being the producer
foremoSt representatives of the the more stringent new forms of so- where she falls into the clutches Of and the script ‘wiiter) with ९ , 1'
cial bondage determined by the in- an unscrupulous woman-hunter, a forgettable finesse and ease, does; ~
new 'wave in Indian drama. a
Following in the footsteps of exorable sway of the almighty cash- slick operator called sammy Siddi‘ not sing his lines but rather delivif,
qui (played with cosummate skill ers their rhymed prose in the man;’
masters like Pirandello and Brecht, \nexus. ‘
Anji is the story of this new type by Imran Aslam).
tier of a medieval story tellerIH’e
these playwrights have liberated
Most of the action of the play is narrates the developing situation,
the theatre from the cliches and of urban young woinan dangling beconventional banalities‘i of the Vic- tween‘ the traditional patriarchal "concerned with the hilarious ef~ comments on the problems of the torian “well-made” play with its family relationships and the forts of the two trying to attain characters, delivers wise saws and ८
advice, . occasionally-i.
outmoded value system, and trans- ana chic patterns ' of the atomised their opposite and irreconcilable friendly
formed it into a vital medium for soci ty of the jungle of the cities. objectives out ofthe sithation; she participates in the action, thus."_
; I ,रै
reflecting the effects of the tre- Her new found individuation de- to trap him into the bonds of keeping together the elements or?
|mendous so’cio-economic forces pends on her emergence as a self- matrimony, and he to “make’? this highly enjoyableshow; V ‘ 2 J ५ ' '
I

…

3

