I Want to Say

Aagaz-e~Adakar is a group of young talented artists from Delhi stage.
pose is to give a new dimension to the theatre

Its pur-

and to present purposeful play-s

prolonging social and psycological themes with diiferent technical and directorial
treatment.

The endeavour is to bring the stage parallel to cinema.

The task though

difﬁcult, as you will agree, is not insurmountable.

Drama, as you all know, is one of the oldest forms of entertainment.
advent of Films the drama lost its
from the scene.

glamour.

With the

Yet it has not been totally removed

A number of professional groups are active in the ﬁeld.

amateur groups, however ﬁnd themselves the neglected lot.

The

There are a number of

talented young people who would be eager to show their artistic . talents. Their
exallance is nibbed in the bud for want

of opportunity.

Aagaz-e-Adakar’s

aim

is to encourage all those who have interest in this form of activity.
“Surya Ki Antim Kiran Se, Surya Ki Pehli Kiran Tak” is the maiden produc—
tion of this group and also the ﬁrst venture of its director. Being a new director, I
have faced a lot of problems while directing this play.
recall

Though I do

not

want to

all the troubles I have faced, yet I will say that unavailability of suitable

rehearsal places and professional and “not very cooperative” attitude of the technical
people in this ﬁeld harass the new comers.
Since theatre requires investment of considerable money, the hope for it lies
in men of inﬂuence and resources getting interested in the theatre and provide it

with a solid ﬁnancial base.

Unless this is done, either by organisations or by

individuals, the theatre will remain as it is.

Revenue from sale of tickets and dona«

tions is a mere fraction of the total expenditure involved in dramatic production.

As

a result income from the advertisements in the brochure becomes the mainstay of
most of the groups.

But it is

wishes to put up a show.
to survive.

very difﬁcult to get advertisements each time one

There is no doubt that, the institution of drama is going

It will centainly go a long way in promoting the art is all possible steps

are taken by the state and public to provide necessary facilities to the small drama

groups.

Ravindra Sharma
Director

