The Storyline
Hugo is sent to Hoederer, the leader of the
Proletariat Party, to assassinate him. The story is centred
around this murder. It is not rare to find political assassination
due to ideological differences in the history of human
civilisation. Hugo is appointed to kill Hoederer by the weaker
section of the Party due to such difference of opinion. Thus
he arrives with his wife Jessica at Hoederer's underground
quarters to be recruited as his secretary.
Hugo is an intellectual youth from the bourgeois
class and he hates his own society. He joins the Proletariat
Party inspired by its socialist idealism. He is a romantic
idealist who aspires to build a classless society on the basis of
truth and morality. He often visualises himself as a
revolutionary and therefore is proud to obtain the
responsibility of killing Hoederer. Hugo too, like his leaders,
does not agree to the policy Hoederer is about to take up.
After his arrival Hugo finds Hoederer to be a very
intelligent and interesting person. He is mesmerised by his
personality. Yet his rational self refuses to accept Hoederer's
policy. The youth is torn by doubts and dilemmas. He isn't
able to square his idealism with the political means employed
to achieve it.
Parallel to this political conflict there unfolds an
intense emotional love story quite unexpectedly and hints at
unforeseen consequences. Thus Jessica enters the very heart
of the drama, drawn unknowingly into the political
conspiracy. She neither gets love nor respect from her
husband because she is a symbol of the bourgeoisie. Hugo is
more attracted to Olga, one of his comrade-leaders. In the
deepening crisis Jessica is swept off her feet by Hoederer. His
words, his agility, his personality seem to enthrall her. She falls
in love with him and decides to save Hoederer. Unfortunately
Hoederer is killed by Hugo when she is in Hoederer's arms.
But why does Hugo kill Hoederer? Does he murder
him for political reasons? Or is it for Jessica? Is it ideological
conflict that transforms the upperclass intellectual into a
political assassin? Or is it merely a crime of passion? If Hugo
assassinates Hoederer for his political belief then he deserves
the status of a revolutionary. Is he accorded that status?
Among many such queries one question becomes the most
significant,_ " What is important for a society? Ideology? Or

the political policy? Who is right? Hugo or Hoederer?"

