A word from the director
In the political context of today there arise some questions in
the minds of ordinary people like us. Questions that don't have
easy answers. Yet, being human, the questions do occur.

The 40s were a decade of political turmoil the world over. This
play has been set in that historical scenario. Perhaps the state
I. . ... and the characters of the play had no existence. But the
reality of their situation cannot be denied, even today.
Let's quickly recall how, after the First World War the
Depression of the 305 had left Europe devastated. That was
when Stalin made a bid for supreme power in the Soviet Union.
And after that came the pronouncements of war from Hitler
and Mussolini as part of their imperial expansion. Britain and
France tried to prevent the war by appeasing Hitler. That didn't
work. Breaking the Munich Pact, Hitler grabbed Czechoslovakia

and attacked Poland.
Comrade Stalin and Fuehrer Hitler had signed the Nonaggression Pact. But Hitler ignored it and attacked the Soviet
Union about two years later. Thus betrayed, Russia joined forces
with Britain and America to ﬁght against Germany. Hitler's
tyranny had brought the world face to face with a nightmare.
Hence the war of socialist Russia against the Fascist powers had
come to symbolise a moral conflict. The Red Army had become
the liberator of oppressed peoples. Hitler's defeat in 1945
marked the defeat of evil. Common people had thus come to
harbour in their mind great dreams, romantic visions about

Communism.
Time, however, would teach us that there was little cause for

such faith. And this disillusionment pushed man to the very
edge of uncertainty. It seems that moral parameters, questions
of good and bad, right and wrong have been blurred.
In this particular play Sartre had, at that point of time, at the end
of the War, raised many questions about the right path for
socialist politics. Questions about human relations and political
means. He'd raised serious issues about extremist or terrorist
means and socialist politics. And these issues were woven into a
gripping, multi—layered story of complex human relationships.
It is through this story that the audiences establish a deep
kinship with Hugo, Hoederer,]essica and Olga. Hugo's crisis is
what many of us face, too.
Sartre, however, offers no facile answers to the inevitable

question that emerges, to the problem that troubles us. Neither
can we say whether there is any answer at all. Yet, Sartre's play
agitates us because, anticipating the primary concern of public
life in the present day, it becomes startlingly contemporary.

