1; t a g 2 ii tti n 9
(:

*

कै

*

*

* Premchand Kashyap

Acting on stage is vastly different from
acting in a Movie. In the former case an

alert and vigilant throughout towards the
reaction of the audiance over his per-

artist while playing his role, has direct
contact with his audience, but in the later
one, though the artist portrays the given
character for millions and millions of
people-the huge population of Cine Goers,

f'ormance. Even though the artist naturally
remains engrossed in portraying the giVen '
character, the mind, atleast, partially, does
get diverted towards those who watch the ८

no opportunity to know and . understand
the reaction of the people during his actual
performance, is available to him.
Besides, an actor on the stage remains
fully aware of the spirit of tha story, its
rising tempo, suSpense and climax etc;,
because of remaining mentally associated
with the theme, whereas the shooting of a
movie is done in such a peace-meal manner
for techanically unavoidable reasons that

the performing artist is just unaware or
little aware of these very important features,
as a result, the actor in the ﬁlm is able to
enjoy the story or for that matter, the movie
as such no batter than any other person
among the audience when it is shown in its
ﬁnal form in the picture house. And, indeed
this basic difference does make stage acting
much more life-full and dynamic as compared
to the acting in a movie.

(II) An actor on the stage howsover mature
and versatile, has got to remain mentally

performance. And it would be extre‘mly
advantageous and rewarding if the actor,
consciously banking on that partial diversion
of‘the'mind towards the watching audiance,

is able [to develop a living contact and
perfect understanding. with them, this would
immensely help to keep almost the total
attention of the people in; the auditorium
with in his grip. This would also enable the
artist to reconcile mentally to the demands

of the sittiation and to adjust his attitude,
expressions, tone and gestures almost
instantaneously during the performance, in
accordance with the reactions of the
audiance. And thus, evedently acting on
the stage does not remain a mere technique
but becomes a dynamic media of exchange
cf thoughts and reactions between living
souls-part of them as performance on the
stage and partly, in the auditorium. Sometimes an actor’s contact with the audiance
is apt to prove to be a possitive disadvantage,
in that, he gets nervous because of becoming

