conscious of their reactions and, indeed,

leaving

apart,

where

manifestation

of

nervousness forms an integral part of the
role itself, the performance is bound to go
completely flat. And this is exactly where
the talents of stage acting are put to a real
test, whether or not one is possessed of the ._

sense

of perceptibility to understand the

mood of the audiance and, then, make full
use of that knowledge to his advantage to
the maximum.

‘ (III) Now the all important point of an
actor’s attitude towards pre-performance
practice known as rehearsals, also needs to
- be dealt with. The artist’s single mindedness,
concentrated eﬁ'ort, and a deep sense of
discipline born out of his dedication to the
stage Will, certainely, go a long way in
mentally preparing him not only to face the
aud‘iance successfully but also to make use
in the fullest measure of their reactions

which they do convey rather unwittingly
through their silent but quite expressive

forward for a successfull. performance tn
the stage, consider, for the sake of the
noble art of the stage acting the rehearsals
which involve considerable precious time
and human labour to be merely a source of

of club gatherring;
rehearsal room is a kind of work-shop meant
recreation or a sort

for seriousﬂcreative activity, culminating in

production of something most valuable.
It would certainly be very wrong to take
rehearsals to be a source of deriving merriment out of the
embly of a few young
boys & girls; let the sanctity of this vital
process be fully realised and utilised , to
the maximum

for

achieving

the lofty

objective of giving such a performance on
the stage as would leave a lasting impact on
the people; To be a real stage actor it is
atonce imperative for the aspirant to
properly evaluate the importance of the
rehearsals, appreciating the essentiality of
this process for producmg a good play.
It is atonce an irrefutable fact that drama

gestures.

(IV) Delivery of dialogues, modulation
in sound, facial expressions,
ments,

Therefore, let net the young folk, looking

total

behaviour

body move-

and

sense of

like many other activities in the human
ﬁeld, is also not an individual feat but
wholly a team work. And quite obviously
the result of any activity involving collective
effort, very much depends upon- the degree

composition on the stage are some of those
basic features of acting in which any person
aspiring to be an stage actor has got to
attain profeciency to the point of perfection
but‘this could never _ be achieved without
undergoing the process of rigorous retiearsels

total production.

in all sincerity, not withstanding the best

worth while to emphasis again that such

of talents one might possess and the ﬁnest
direction one might receive.

understanding and responsiveness can only
be achieved through perfact rehearsals.

of mutual understanding and reCiprocal
responsiveness between the participants
irrespective of how much is the share of

each individual in contributing tOWards the

And it would indeed, be

