Name of the Group

:

Santipur Rangapeeth, W.B.

Name of the Director
Name of the Play
Name of the Playwright
Language of the Play
Duration

: .
:
:
:
:

Nilima Biswas
Aakasher Kachakachi
Nilima Biswas
Bengali
1 hrs.

About the play
A group of children, waiting for a whole day for the evening. Evening only means to them to went on the terrace,
terrace means reaching nearer to the sky, stay beside the ships of clouds. No—one knows the address of the terrace. The

terrace of an old building is their solitary play empire. The Indus Valley civilization, Akbar’s religious code, cost of
time,

environment pollution, a.+2ab+b everything wiped out, left only the terrace.

Mommy’s nagging, Dadd’s
क्ष
fornenting sobbing inside the brain everything released here only on this terrace. F riendship cementing here even

whatever the difference within them. They made friendship even witha snake (using the terrace as a shelter) Hilbil and

a dog called Moti.

On terrace different toys and playing materials are hidden. The old damaged terrace trance formed

sometimes as a rolling banquat hall, sometimes ocean, sometimes desert. Mandan neither even know how the desert
look alike, what is the height of the hills, how the sea-waves splashed beside the seabeach and bounced back to the sea

again nor she could visit either these places. These make-shift ocean, desert made Manda smile. When the time of
Durga Puja, friends themselves decided together to see the god then Arnit come at the terrace because he only has a.
dirty shirt. But friends do not leave him alone, collected money buy shirt and chased him at the terrace. Arnit wanted
to ran-off but cannot succeed, terrace friendship wipe’lout everything. Their, birthday, Diwali, joy and tears everything

on this terrace. Here lies complete freedom, no one scold them nor they were dictated. Therefore they always waiting

for the evening.

When, in the Diwali, at the well-lit evening, command of their parents loosening, they come over the

terrace, enjoining their light and crackers show. Suddenly Mamda burst into tears and reported that her father bought
this house and will demolish this terrace, new highrise will be erect. The don’t even know that this semi-damaged old
house has costs lakhs of rupees, only through demolishing it the dream of modern sky scrapper can be achieved. What
can they do, olders will not hear elders.

समूह का नाम

शांतिपुर रंगपीढ, कोलकत्ता

निर्दशक
नाटक का नाम

नीलिमा विस्वास
आकारोर काछाकाछि

भाषा

बंगाली

अवधि

I

1 घण्डा

नाटक के बारे में

बनों का एक समूह, पूरे दिन शाम होने का इंतजार करता है I क्योंकि शांम होते ही
तो छत पर चढ सकते है मतलब आकाश के समीप जा सकतें हैं, यानि बादलों की रनैर

कर सकते है I किसी को इस छत का पता नहीं मालूम, जो कि इनका साम्राज्य है I
सिंधु घाटी सभ्यता, अकबर के धार्मिक बिचार, समय की कीमत, वातावरण प्रदूषण

