of those
qualiﬁcations of actors and directors, and offer training. Most
with its
who passed through their hands were drawn from Cracow
Stanislavskian stress on naturalism, psycho-realistic character interpretation and on group-work as opposed to the traditional star-system. The
Stanislavsky method

reached its apotheosis with Juliusz Osterwa’s

Reduta Company that concentrated on a repertoire of Polish plays.
Yet just when it seemed that headway was being made towards a

vital national movement the Second World War detonated the horrors
of occupation and concentration camp. PIST went underground.
After the war reconstruction began under the Soviet government.
This meant mixed blessings as far as the theatre was concerned. Training schools were set up at Warsaw, Cracow and Lodz; amateur and ’
professional groups were subsidised in outlying cities; touring companies
were encouraged and low-priced tickets were made available to the
masses. The widespread response overturned an elitist theatre and
triggered a boom in theatre construction and awareness through new
publications. Yet the early years of state patronage brought with it a
८ repetition of the earlier pattern of tight censorship and an indigestible
fodder of socialist realism.
‘
However by 1956 came a thaw in Soviet policy: ‘All works of value

which did not manifest outright hostility to the socialist view of the
world were worthy of interest.’ This encouraged a spurt of experimentalism inspired by new theatre ideas in Europe and much diversiﬁed production-techniques and repertoire from group to group.
Erwin Axer’s Contemporary Theatre of Warsaw began to mend the
de-centralised movement of the post-war years, and a healthy exchange
of ideas started between the European countries. While the Dramatyczny
Theatre based itself on Brecht, Durrenmatt and Max Frisch, Axer
introduced Anouilh, Sartre and Giraudoux to Warsaw audiences together
with a staple of the representative Absurdists: Ionesco, Beckett, Pinter
and Albee. Also at this time the plays of an undiscovered Polish avant
gardist were found. Stanislaw Wilkiewicz had anticipated the theatre of
the absurd twenty years ahead of its time by drawing on the resources of
the popular pastiche and mediaeval Polish morality plays.
All these inﬂuences are brought to a focus in the work of Mrozek.
In Tango the deceptively quiet domestic situation explodes into the
surreal, escalating from absurdist irony into horror. Grotesquerie, farce,
tragedy and metaphysical dialectic are bonded together in the traditional
mechanism of Polish epic or mediaeval morality. The social satire and

implied critique of totalitarianism would be easily recognised by an
aud1ence that has always had to read between the lines. The play is in
fact a parable. Yet it is a play that confronts the unknown. As Arthur

perceives at the cr1s13 of the action: “The old conventions won’t bring
back reality...There’s no going back...”

