one is that
helps to push the play forward. In fact what comes home to
the game of life has begun in another sort of way.

sad
A game of cards is being played. We see EUGENIA, the
ric; and
senile grandmother; her brother EUGENE, an outdated eccent
opportunist.
the outsider to the family circle, EDDIE, a mere all-purpose
is a rebel
ARTHUR, the 25-year-old grandson, a university student,

the
desperately looking for a ‘cause’, his only valid reason being: ‘I’m at
beginning of my life and I don’t know what sort of life I’m supposed to
begin. I have to create it so that I can move into it.’
ELEONORA, his mother, a degenerate neurotic, one who fell in love

with her husband’s dreams of ‘brave new worlds’ but forgot to love him.
STOMIL, her husband, though a conscientious crasher of accepted
r
‘norms’ lacked discrimination. The legacy then of the parents to Arthu
is their newest norm ‘abnormality’. To counteract this stark raving son,
ALA, the cousin, is uncovered like a straight, simple early morning

tune.

She is the one person with whom Arthur rests and is just himself.

The relationship between them is no more complicated than a matter of
loving.
These are the characters of the domestic drama. We witness a

series of quasi-casual-serious, comic-tragic incidents. A many-sided
picture of life unfolds. In the ﬁrst act the game of cards runs into a
mock theatrical of Adam and Eve.

This theatrical becomes the explora-

tion, contemporary fashion, in the second act.

The wooing of Ala by

Arthur is sledge-hammered by Eddie, Ala and Arthur in turn. Arthur,
annoyed, instigates his father, Stomil, to shoot Eddie, also his mother’s
lover, in between whiles. The holocaust of tempers, talk and threatened action degenerates into the eternal game of cards. Arthur is in
despair in not being able to convince the ‘parent’ into action, swings
around the revolver dangerously. The second act ends on a joyous note,
Ala consents to marry him. In the third act the marriage situation

gets smudged.

Arthur gets drunk at a bachelor’s party, keeps the

household waiting, turns up eventually only to get violent, revolver
in hand. Ala gets impatient, Stomil and Eleonora are frightened.
Eugene feels let down to see Arthur behave so bestially.

Eugenia,

the grand mother, ﬁnds this too much, and amidst screaming and
shouting, screeches her decision to die and she does! The unravelling
continues, Eddie kills Arthur. Eleonora and Stomil leave, taking Ala
with them. Her consolation is: ‘He loved me. No one can take that
away from me.’ And Stomil wonders to himself, ‘I suppose it was
love. . . ’. Eddie then is left alone with great uncle Eugene. The game
of cards is replaced by the formal movements of the ‘Tango’. The old
man and the young meet, and dance together: and after the curtain—
i
Well, at least the music remains. . . .

