Meera left her writing and Devika her teaching and they went to work—- _
from scratch. It is they who from the beginning have made the decisrons and determined the policies, collected the books and encouraged
the teachers, and most difﬁcult of all, coaxed, cajoled, and convinced the
contractors to step forward with the essential space and money for the
schools.
. Central to the scheme is the involvement of the contractors on whose
Site the labourers live and work. While the long-run hope is that the
workers’ living conditions will be vastly improved, efforts are currently
concentrated on persuading the contractors to share the running costs of
the school. Such persuasion was and continues to be no easy job. Up

to now, however, private and public contractors alike have agreed to
supply the basic school—a roof and storage shed—as well as water and
- Rs. 500 per month to cover the salaries of two teachers and two helpers.
Thanks to CASA and Brothers to All Men and other charities, ends do

meet—but barely.
A common query is ‘Why start a new school?

Why not send the

children off to Delhi's municipal schools?’ It doesn’t take many visits
to any one creche to provide a visual explanation to such questions. In
the ﬁrst place, many of the children are illiterate, or in any case far behind a Delhi child of equivalent age who has had the luxury of one

home and one school.

This fact, coupled with the child’s reluctance to

mix with anyone but his own villagers, is very strong.
poses problems, too.

The bureaucracy

Birth certiﬁcates, which most of the children don’t

have, are required for registration.

By the time a family of six has

moved to its ﬁfth worksite in six years, it’s not surprising that the haras-

sed father may ignore the question of school altogether.

Extensive

transfer procedures plus expensive uniforms are just one more reason
why Gita, Shanti, or Ram does not enter the municipal school. Finally,
problems of health are often enormous.
One sign of success is the fact that, in spite of these obstacles, 50 of

the children who took the municipal exams this summer passed, and
with the help of the creche were registered, for the current year.
The program itself is geared to building up the children education-

ally, emotionally, medically, and nutritionally. It all begins at 8.00 am.
with scrub-downs, hair brushing and teeth cleaning.

By 10.00 am.

functional literacy and arithmetic lessons get under-way for those above
six. After lunch the program branches out into crafts, drama, carpentry,
sewing, and to be realistic, sometimes chaos. Carpentry is fast becoming
the most popular—and signiﬁcant - activity for the boys. As an introduction to vocational training, it is a very tangible attempt to channel
them into a more satisfying and better paying job. (Carpenters, as a
rule, earn up to ﬁve times as much as a typical labourer.)
While all this sounds very neat, to talk of real routine is an exagge-

