ration.

of his brother before the
The child who responds to the cries

essfully be sealed into an unquestions of his teacher will not very succ
re even the youngest often
disturbed school day. In a situation whe
ing

as drawing water or graz
shares some parental responsibility, such
l if the school is to remain as welcome

goats, the open system is essentia

s.
an element as it has become in the past three year

ms of discipline.
But such an open system also courts proble

For

the older children, often
example, attendance rates, especially among
the strength of competvary from site to site. The deciding factors are
ctations on the other.
ing attractions on the one hand and parental expe
in brilliant fuchsia and
One recent afternoon a beautiful woman dressed
s with a sturdy plank in
weighted with silver ornaments tore into the clas
ight for her cowering
her hand. Oblivious to all protests, she went stra
s—and proceeded
seven year old—who had been absent for several day
, but the point was
to slam him with her ‘weapon’. Rajpal screamed
made; Rajpal has been in school ever since.
’t come
Such parental interest in, and acceptance of, the school didn
d
early mood
overnight. Suspicion, more than hostility, characterize the
, and tooth
toward such anomalies as powdered milk, vitamin pills
on to such
powder. Even more typically, caste prejudice aroused oppositi
.
However,
practices as common plates, common linen, and common food
e initial
the intelligence of the children, plus time, helped to overcome thes
ol is
fears, and the parents have now learned that in many ways the scho
for them, too.

Four of the schools are currently offering adult literacy

classes in the evenings and they all schedule monthly ﬁlm shows and

family planning programs.
Educating the entire community about its nutritional, sanitary, and
medical needs remains a major effort. Porridge for the little ones in the
morning, rice, dhal, and chappatis for all at lunch, milk in the afternoon, and supplemental diets for the severely undernourished make up
the feeding program. But sometimes it is hard to believe that all the

vitamin pills and milk will counter the effects of the dismal sanitary
conditions.
Teachers ﬁght ﬁres, too. Eight hours a day, six days a week, for
eleven months of the year, two teachers, an ayah, and a general helper
care for, control, and console about 100 children between infancy and

the age of twelve. For her work a head teacher earns approximately
Rs. 175 per month, assistant teachers Rs. 125-150, and helpers
Rs. 80-100.

Yet, in spite of the difﬁcult conditions (no heaters in the

winter or fans in the summer) there is no lack of applicants.

Selection

is made on the basis of teaching experience, or rather lack thereof, for
Mrs. Mahadevan and Mrs. Singh feel that only girls without rigid training can provide the approach that the children and situation demand.

The only requirement is a high school degree and a lot of interest.

And

