indeed, their manner reﬂects the untethered, unchannelled, refreshingly
free approach of the inexperienced, which is not to say, the untrained.
Intensrve week-end workshops, plus a great deal of personal guidance,

account for the teacher training program.
.Yolunteers have a role, too, though theirs is a more debatable and
sensmve one. Over the past three years some forty women from the
American and European community have devoted a few hours a week
to assist in the feeding programs or to help with creative and recreational activities that ﬁll the afternoons. While their help is welcomed, there

IS always the danger that a volunteer’s presence will result in the building
of a charity—not a school. Nothing could harm the children more. The
teachers are determintd that the creche should remain an educational
agency providing educational facilities, not a charity where self-respect is .
sacriﬁced for bright and plastic toys.
Self-reliance cannot be compromised either. The volunteer who
offers to drive a mother and her baby to the hospital is not doing her a

favour.

Rather than learning independently how to ﬁnd the hospital

and how to take the bus, that mother is learning dependence on a person
whose continued presence is uncertain. On the same principle, teachers
no longer give free books and other supplies, but instead sell them to
the children at low subsidized prices. Twenty-ﬁve paise may be a neg—
ligible part of the total cost, but it’s a large step toward self-respect.
This is not to say that volunteers aren’t needed, but they must understand the principles involved and not let hearts goad them into doing
what may, in the long run, be counter-productive.
A lot of work remains. Though eleven creches are operating, future
plans call for thirty more if the construction community as a whole is to
beneﬁt and if continuity and consistency are to be maintained. To keep
up with the rapid rate of transfer and the large numbers of children, a
minimum of forty strategically-placed schools is essential. Already those
parents and children transferred from a site with a creche to one without, are clamouring for a creche of their Own.
Forty schools might awaken parents and children to the beneﬁts of
continuous care, steady meals and books. But until the contractors

wake up to the overall needs of the labourers, the job is only half done.
Legally, a contractor is under obligation to improve the living and working conditions of his employees, but legalities invite their own interpreuntil
tations. Until the water is ﬁltered and the garbage removed,

plumbing is installed and the existence of the schools ensured, the law
remains dead.

Maybe those who set out to enforce the spirit of the law

are after the impossible.

But for those who have witnessed the

enchantment of the disenchanted, the goal seems worth pursuing.
El Reproduced from News Circle, September 1971.

