upto the age of 12. A small band of trained staff looks after these
otherwise neglected children and imparts basic care, simple hygiene,
medical aid, functional literacy and recreational and creative activities.

Each Creche takes care of approximately 80 to 100 children, and
the Mobile Creches have now spread to eleven working sites in the
Capital, and are presently taking care of over 1,100 children.
The noble endeavours of this small, valiant organisation have attrac-

ted the sympathies of several international social welfare agencies: the
UNICEF has gifted a jeep; the Indo-German Social Service has given a
ﬁnancial grant to meet the basic expenses of an ofﬁce and personnel,
and the Brothers To All Men organisation has helped to provide free
midday meals for the children and to set up the Literacy and Technical
Training Programmes. The In-Service training of teachers and helpers
working in the mobile creches has been met by a generous UNICEF
grant which assures proper guidance and orientation to all Creche staff.
The woman who spearheaded the mobile creche project is Meera
Mahadevan. Simple and unassuming, she can be dynamic and volatile
when ﬁghting for the rights of ‘her’ children with recalcitrant building

contractors.

A writer by profession (she has published two novels and

half a dozen short stories), she later took on a job as a ﬁeld-worker during the Gandhi Centenary.
‘I then decided to do something more than just seminars and conf'erences,’ she says. ‘The innate maternal instinct was perhaps what
drew me to improve the lot of these feckless children of migrant workers
and I was able to get a small group of friends to join in the venture of
the Mobile Creches.’
This pioneering group consists of Devika Singh, Kumkum Ghosh,
and Dr. Asha Manglik, who is responsible for coordinating the entire

medical programme of the creches.

Devika and Kumkum, both trained

teachers by profession, have found the work immensely rewarding since
‘it is so much more purposeful aad meaningful than teaching children
from privileged backgrounds’.
The organisers as well as the other staff are completely involved in
the working of the project; indeed, one of the clauses of their constitution states that only an active worker will be an ofﬁce bearer. ‘We have
thus done away with the myth of ornamental chairmen and secretaries,’
says the group with justiﬁable pride.
One of the major objectives of the movement is to eradicate the
concept of charity and inculcate the idea of self-help among the commu-

nity in which Mobile Creches are established. ‘Self—help and self-sufficiency apply equally to the labourers and the contractors, and it is only
proby active involvement of the parents in their children’s welfare and
gress that the Creches can show results,’ says Meera Mahadevan.
An interesting development of the Creche programme is that the

