THE BEGINNING...
Of the group that came for the audition only three remained after a few weeks. It was
nearly a month later that people started trickling in slowly, As most of us were new to
theatre the initial months were an exposure to the new form of theatre,
\

The meetings slowly turned into a workshop.

The main scenes of the play were interpre-

ted in various ways to explore all the emotions.

Initially the voice was given greater

importance and the movements were traditional.

Later the movements were pulled up to

bring it on par with speech.

Out of this evolved the ﬁnal shape of the play.

The members of the group slowly cemented in and the whole group with the directors was
creating together.
It was only then that we realized the necessity of the “spirit of the
group” which our directors constantly harped about,

The underlying theme of the festival was “Exploitation of man by man”.

‘Macbett’ and

"I‘he Lesson’ by Eugene Ionesco, ‘Ubu Roi’ by Alfred Jarry and “Le Général Inconnuv by
Renée de Obaldia were the four plays of the festival, And so, after about three months
of creative dedication, blissful exertions and, of course, a good dose of fun and laughter-in

short a total “freakout” we made our debut in the ﬁrst week of March at the Shri Ram
Centre Basement Theatre.
It was a beautiful experience in that small Basement Theatre,

houses.

which ran to packed

We relaxed after those three months of heightened activity and perseverance.

But after some time most ofus began to realise this sudden lull in our lives which led
to the formation of our workshop.
It started becoming more and more interesting,

All of us who acted in these four plays

started attending them. We discussed absured theatre in its details, talking about Artaud,
Ionesco and the others, and also had an exposée on traditional Indian Theatre and its
forms .

The theatre de Poche and this Ionesco festival was at that time in its early stages of
conception.

When we met after the summer holidays, rehearsals started once again in full

swing with a bang. We were joined in by a few newcomers and once again we all found
ourselves gripped by the theatre fever,

K U M A R R A M AYY A
Z A R I N A M U LL A

