I O N E SCO
B i o g ra p h y

1912. 26 November, born at Slatina, Rumania (situated at I 50 km. west of Bucharestl,
Eugéne Ionesco (which signiﬁes, “son of John”). His father is an advocate. His mother
Therese Icard, is French.

1913-20,

The Ionesco family leaves Rumania

young child Ionesco attends the

and

itself at Paris.

The

community school at Dupleix street...and the puppet

shows of Luxembourg which fascinate him...
1925.

establishes

"

Return of Ionesco to Rumania where his parents get divorced.

The child learns

the Rumanian language and translates his French patriotic play into a Rumanian patriotic play, written in French the previous year.

1926-28.

Secondary school

studies. Makes brilliant progress and quickly progresses in

Rumanian but “feels himself in exile”.

1979- Enters the Bucharest University where he studies fora French degree. Reads
Alain Fournier (“master of his dreamy and poetical adolescence”) and Valéry Larbaud.
Writes his ﬁrst poems (inﬂuence of James and of Maeterlinck) and a new theatre
sk e t c h .

1930-35. Intense literary activities. Publication of a poetry booklet (in Rumanian),
Elégies pour les étres minuscules, Does literary criticism, His articles are published ni
one volume, Nu (No), in 1934. The ﬁrst part is titled : “Moi, Tudor Arghesi, Ion Barbou et
Cami] Petrescou, where the coalescing of contraries, the sentiment of the absurd, the praise
of the subjectivity are some of the themes which announce his future works. And already,
he says : “In so far as theatre is concerned - God guard us - it will not be able to be
theatrical.”

1936-37. Death of his mother, of whom he will speak in his Journal with passion. He
marries a philosophy student, Rodica Burileano (“life with my wife is full of richness and
of prime importance".) Teaches French language in one of the schools of Bucharest.
1938. Obtains a scholarship from the French Governnent to come to France to write
his thesis. “The themes of sin and death in French poetry since Baudelaire", The thesis
At this time he becomes aware
remained incomplete but he will work at it for two years
of the difﬁculties in writing in French.
1939.

Returns to the places associated with his

childhood,

Mixes with the group of ‘

Esprit review where he comes in contact with PA, Touchard and Mounier.

