1940-43,

Reads extensively : Kafka, Flaubert,

Lives at Marseille.

Proust, Dostoievsky

Denys I’Aeropagite, Jean Baruzzi’s book on St. Jean de la Croix, as well

as Emmanuel

Mounier whom he will again meet in Paris in 1946.
1944-47.

Birth of his daughter, Marie-France, on 26 August at Paris.

reader with a publishing house,

1948-49

Makes up his mind

Works as a proof.

Has ﬁnancial difﬁculties,

to learn English.

Starts writing the Cantatrice

Establishes relations with Nicolas Bataille, his ﬁrst producer.

Chauve_

“he rarely visited the

t h e a tr e ’ ' .

1950.

The ﬁrst

1951.

First performance of La Legon, at the theatre de poche,

performance of the Cantatrice Chauve at the Theatre of Noct
ambules.
Writes La Legon and Jacques, ou la Soumission.
Writes Les Chaises.

1952. First performance of Les Chaises at the New Lancry Theatre.
Devoir .
1953.

Writes Victimes du

First performance of the Victimes du Devoir at the Quartier Latin Theatre. Public-

ation of Theatre, theatre volume I by the Arcanes publishers, with a preface by

Jacques

Lem a rcha n d .

1965, The book Theatre theatre volume I is republished by Gallimard publishers. Dedication : “To my wife, to my daughter-all this theatre”. Creation of Amédée at the Babylone
Theatre. The N.R.F. publishers start publishing his short-stories (Oriﬂamme, La Photo (in
Colonel), Of which many will be the starting point of his future plays. First performance of
/
.
r २
Jacques ou la soum1$s10n at the theatre of the Huchette. “ l he team of Ionesco directors
is now complete : Bataille, Serreau, Mauclair, Postec...”

1956. First performance of Impromptu de l’Amla and the second performance of Les
Chaises at the studio of the Champs-Elysées. A brilliant article in Figaro newspaper by
Jean Anouilh, Ionesco leaves the “ghetto of avant-garde”.
'
1957-58. At London, writes 'I‘ueur sans gages, his ﬁrst long play. First performance of
the Nouveau Locataire, at the Theatre of Today. Writes Rhinoceros of which he makes
a public reading On 28th November at the Vieux-Colombier. Publication of the book
Theatre, volume 11.

1959-6].

First performance of Tueur sans gages at the Recamier Theatre, of Rhinoceros

at Dusseldorf, then at the French Theatre (ﬁrst performance of a Ionesco play in a
Government aided Theatre)
On the other hand he writes a commentary for Monsieur
Téte, with drawings sketched by Lenica ; attends the festival of Spolete for the ﬁrst
performance of Scene :1 4 ; goes to Helsinki, for discussions regarding en avant-garde
theatre; holds conferences at Copenhagen ; travels to Brazil : intends to write a musical
comedy ; writesILa Colére,, cinematographic sketches which will be incorporated in the

ﬁlm Les 7 Peches Capitaux,
i 1 1 sp i r a t ion .

diversiﬁed activities which disguise and painful crisis of

