D E LH I CHILDREN'S TH EAT R E
Forty three years ago, the Delhi Children's Theatre (DCT) made a small
beginning with a few dedicated persons who believed that the mind of a child was
a world of many splendours, which ought to be given the opportunity to blossom
forth into many faceted expression. Four decades of experience have taught us
that we were not wrong, that our confidence was not misconceived.
A child's mind roams in the world of imagination and fantasy, of symbols and
make-believe, and finds expression in creativity which includes dance, music and

drama. In its originality, it is unique; in its boldness, it is remarkable; in its ability
to create reality in the image of its own perceptions, it has no peer. While too
many things to-day appear to be conspiring to confine the mind into straitjacket
of conformity, there is all the more need to encourage the child's mind to break
out of the bounds of the ordinary and venture forth into the realm of the
extraordinary. Without sounding immodest, the Delhi Children's Theatre can claim
to have provided thousands of children with this priceless freedom to create their
own world of marvels.
We have the great satisfaction of knowing that we have been able to open up
the minds of the children trained by us to a splendorous world of imagination,

fantasy and togetherness through which they will become more complete adults
with agile, receptive, perceptive and creative minds. Those who have trained them
have the great happiness of knowing that they have contributed vitally to the
emergence of more wholesome personalities. We cannot and do not rest on our
laurels; the children make us aim higher and higher.
Throughout our existence, it has been our constant endeavour to achieve
higher and higher standards of artistic creation and presentation so that children
develop the psychology of achievement and excellence, which is an invaluable
asset for the future of the nation.
"
To-day commences the Annual Festival of the DCT. It is a regular feature of
its activities, consisting of a variety of presentations by the children for the children.

A source of abounding joy for all of them it is an occasion for shared pride in
themselves. It is the Culmination of the efforts made at the training centres which
the DCT runs in collaboration with educational institutions at several schools.
These centres provide for the children training under the guidance and care of
fully qualified and experienced teachers in theatre, music and dance. Each child
receives individual attention and each gets an opportunity to appear on the stage
at the annual festival. it is no mean satisfaction for us that many of our trainee
attain professional standards in the fields of acting, dancing, music and so on, and
are able to join professional institutions.

