TRAINING CENTRES: During the year under review, the DCT training Centres

functioned in the following schools of Delhi:-

स्म e स्प N

1. Delhi Public School, Mathura Road
Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market
Laxman Public School
Lady Irwin School Defence Colony
Saket Centre

Our experienced choregraphers, Music Director, Tabla accompanist and

teachers conducted the Training Centre in these schools. The children received
training in dance, drama, music, ballet and theatre.

The trainees are charged Rs. 5/- for admission and Rs. 25/- per month as fee
for ten months of the year.

Ten Conveners and two peons, nominated by the heads of the Schools where
our training centres are located helped in the regular day-to-day work of the
training centres and collected fees from the students.
FINANCE: During the year, the DCT received from Sangeet natak Akademi
to
a grant of Rs. 12,000. We have appealed to the chairman of the Akademi
Rs.
increase our annual grant to Rs. 20,000/- We also received a special grant of

40,000 from Dept. of Culture, Ministry of Human Resource Development.
The audited statement of income & expenditure and Balance Sheet for the
year (994-96 prepared by our Chartered Accountant, M/s Shekhon & Co. gives
a clear picture of our financial position.
ANNUAL FESTIVAL: During the year, the DCT, held a 3 Day Annual Festival
at the Mavalankar Auditorium, Rafi Marg, New Delhi on 16, 17, 18 Feb. 1995. The
Festival Show was a great success, large number of School children and visitors
g and
witnessed the Festival shows. There were two shows daily in the mornin
A
adults.
for
5/Rs.
and
children
evening. The rate of tickets were Rs. 5/- for
souvenir was brought out on the occasion.

l
The DCT training centres and 8 Schools of Delhi took part in the Festiva
ballets
programme, the Three Day festival consisted of 22 items including plays,
mme.
and chorus songs. About 2000 School Children took part in the festival progra
Shri Harish
Our experienced Director, Smt. Rekha Jain and Choreographers,
Kumar, Smt. Sonali
Verma, Km. Poonam Verma, Smt. Bandana Roy, Shri Anup

Smt. Roma
Sarkar, Smt Rital Bose, Shri Subhankar Biswas, Smt. Nilarn Jha,
Malhotra
Bhattacharaya Smt. Rital Mukherjee, Ms. Deepika Bose and Sanjay
helped in making Festival a success.

