Way. Because the emblem of this King is the sweet
lotus at whose centre is painted the awesome thunder.
As one learns this one can relate oneself to this
continuous festival of Life which is illuminated by
the power of that Darkness.
This play portrays the pilgrimage of Sudarshana
to that realization.

About PA N C H A M VA I D I C
PANCHAM VAIDIC launched its maiden play
production ‘Naathabati Anaathabat’ in 1983. With
the assistance and active participation of three theatre
groups, Nandikar, Theatron and Samstab, Pancham
‘Dasachkra’ (an adaptation of
Vaidic produeed

Ibsen’s

‘An

Enemy

of the People’) in 1985.

It

brought back Sombhu Mitra to the stage as director
after a long lapse. He played the lead role too. The

entire sale proceeds from all the six shows that were
held, coming to about One Lakh Five thousand rupees
were donated to the Prime Minister’s Fund fOr Relief
to the cyclone victims of Bangladesh. Earlier in
January 1985, Pancham Vaidic had sponsored an evening with Sombhu Mitra as well as their production
Naathabati Anaathabat and could donate some Twenty
three thousand rupees for the gas victims of Bhopal.
It also sponsored a programme in March 1985, where
Somhhu Mitra read out from his play, ‘Chand
Baniker Pala’.
Pancham Vaidic, in order to do something meaningful and creative in the domain of theatre, has set
up a theatre instit.,ute ‘Pancham Veda Charyasrarna‘.
Students here learn the language of the body, attempt
at experiments with voice and speech, and try to
imbibe the idioms of theatre. The1e ale classes on
the origin and history of drama as well as elementary
science also.
Pancham Vaidic intends to stage a Hindi version

of Naathabati Anaathabat. The translation has been
done by Usha Gangulee.
Rabindranath Tagore’s ‘Raja’ is the third production of this theatre group. When our contemporary
society is t01n asunder between various opinions and
confused, we are reminded of this play that speaks
so deeply about the self— realisation of Man.

