A R ’1" I C L E J

All the Classical Dance Styles in india come under two streams of philosophy. One that has come under
Vaishnav influence and the other, the
Shaivaite stream of thought.

’IWO FASCINATING FACES OF KATHAK
- - SHAIVAITE AND VAISHNAVAITE

In Northern lndia, mainly along the
Gangetic valley, there existed a few
communities or groups of people, who

narrated stories of the Gods and Goddesses to the people. They did this
through the medium of dance. music
and drama. They would go from
temple to temple, town to town, reciting and dancing verses, narrating the
great deeds of the Almighty. They were
known as Kathakars - meaning people
who narrate stories or Story-tellers
(‘Katha' means Story). Due to the
peculiarity of the lndian social structure, certain professions became hereditary, especially in the case of art.
music and dance.
Kathakars

The Kathakars have been know
through centuries as a community of
dancers, musicians and narrators. The
motive behind this was two fold--— pri-

Birju Maharaj
thus it came to be known as a Court
Dance. Though the technique basically remained the same, its purpose
changed—from a devotional dance it
was transformed into a dance of entertainment. Thus, to continuously

please the rulers. patrons or courtiers,
the Kathak dancers started incorporatingin their repertoire all the exciting
and attractive' aspects of Kathak today. Fast pirouettes and intricate
footwork developed.
Whims and F‘ancies
The dancer often had to satisfy the
whims and fancies of the rulers; and
hence spontaniety in the technique
appeared. Like Hindustani music,

By this time, the Muslim patrons were
not content with mere dance, however

dazzling it may be. They wanted to
see an art which mirrored life in its
different moods, which projected life
with all its passions. Hence the Kathak
that blossomed under their patronage
with the help of great masters like
Bindadin, began to lay greater stress
on mood or ‘Bhaua’ (Mime), and so
eventually the Lucknow Gharana came
to be characterised as a dance which
was graceful, decorative, suggestive,
expressive, sensuous, one of delicacy,
subtlety and sensitiveness. This gradually paved the way for the incorporation of “Sanchan' Bhava" - or
various ways of analysing a word or a

marily this was a form of devotion,

and secondly it also helped in educating the common simple village folk. it
is in due course of time that their dance
recital came to be styled as ‘Kathak'
by ‘virtue of its association with this
community.

During the resurgence of Vaishnavisrn
in the north. this art of narrating sto-

ries through dance and music was
quite well established and popular.
Vaishnavism,being fully alive to cre-

ative art, adopted it as a medium of
worship and devotion. It used it in
propagating and spreading the
Krishna-Radha Cult.
Thus Kathak became enriched with
the episodes of Krishna and Radha. lt

incorporated within its repertoire the
entire essence of the Krishna-Radha

philosophy.
Zamindars
Gradually, during the time of
zamihdars or landlords, the Kathaks
were called to these rich men's houses
during joyous occasions or religious

festivals. to sing and dance, and thus
make the occasions more auspicious

and gay.
Later, with the advent of the Mughals,
Kathak was slowly transported from
the temples to the courtrooms, and

28

Sculptumus Poise

within accepted timecycles, the dancer
was free to improvise and weave
intricate patterns through footwork

verse through mime which eventually
became one of the unique features of
Lucknow Gharana.

and gestures. The dancers sponta-

Genius Bindadin

neously improvised all along. The
greater the capacity to improvise,
the more excellent was the dancer.

NOVEMBER

1 5 - 2 1

1 99 1

The capacity to interpret a word in
numerous ways with the help of

