ARTICLE r
spontaneous imagination is a remark-

able and interesting feature. Bindadin
Maharaj was a genius in this aspect.

To quote a well known Story:
Once he was performing in the court,
and he just took up one word “Red”,
and started interpreting and analysing
the word. The audience was so engrossed in his perfOrmance that no one
realized this until he completed this

number.
Proﬁcient Achchan
However, in giving prominence to
Bhava, Lucknow Gharana did not divorce itself from Nritta (or pure technique). The dancers gave equal importance to rhythm and dance pat-

straight lines. There are pirouettes
along the central vertical axis of the
body, various lines of movements
which form designs in space, and intricate footwork patterns woven into
rhythmic syllables.
Achchan Maharaj was proficient in

both in rhythmic patterns as well as
mime, are unbelievable. He is prob-

ably the only Kathak dancer in India
today to have ‘excelled and gained
perfection in all the three aspects of
dance, - Nritta, or pure technique,
Nritya, conveying some meaning.

Birju Maharaj, son of Achchan
Maharaj, has absorbed the expertise
of all these three great dancers. His

through gestures without spoken
words, and Natya or pure expressional
dance accompanied by words.
Traditional Form
Birju Maharaj has brought together the
old traditional form of Kathak, as well
as the modern contemporary form
which he has developed. to give it a
more complete and meaningful iden-

dance reveals the superb synthesis

tity.

and combination of rhythm, grace, and
abhinaya in equal measures. His
graceful lines, picturesque poses, the

“Layakari” (or rhythm and technical

aspect). Lachchu Maharaj’s graceful,
flowing movements were praised, and
Shambhu Maharaj for his exquisite.
heart-throbbing Abhinaya for expressions.

Dancing Birju l

different tirnecycles. Kathak is two di-

meticulous finish, extraordinary sense

Kathak then is a style of dance that
links Hindu temples and Muslim courts
and symbolises the process of synthesis of Indian Culture. it has trav-

mensional in character like miniature
paintings and conceives of space in

of rhythm, dazzling footwork and ca-

elled

pacity to improvise spontaneously

modern-day stage.

terns formed within the framework of

from temples, to courts. to

29
NOVEMBER

1 5- 2 l

l 99 l

