A RT I C LE
First India Theatre Olympiad—A
Global Theatre Festival Held in India
from 13th February to 22nd February,
1989 Organised by National Institute
of Performing Arts.
My memories go back to one pleasant
evening, when I was to propose a vote
of thanks to Dr. P.K. Haridi, then Regional Deputy Director, Song 5 Drama
Divison, Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting, Government of India.
posted at Pune, and his troupe who
had presented a cultural programme
in the township of Indian Farmers
Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd. (IFFCO) at
Kasturinagar (North Gujarat). Initially
it was a chance meeting, but it was

म्भाश्मा1
'शाइम्भधाड्डू or

DOWN MEMORY LANE TO
NIPA'S BIRTH PANGS

झाट्यखक्वि W

B. M. D. Agarwal*

INDIA

with the affiliations of IATA, Denmark,
Asian Cultural Centre for UNESCO,
Tokyo, Japan.

Though not fully explored and propagated as yet, India possesses a unique

cultural heritage. Indeed the tradition
of India is as old as mankind itself.
Obviously, the influence of Indian
Theatre Arts is a vital factor which has

felt that both of us are travelling on
been a constant source of inspiration
same wave-length. Our external per-

sonality is only a source of livelihood,
but we live for literature, art and culture with a social urge. A few subsequent meetings were held for
organising national level Theatre
Workshop in India for the would-be
Directors and Actors, sponsored by
IFFCO, Kalol near Ahrnedabad, India.
A selected team of 50 Actors and
Directors participated in this workshop
which was followed by live perfor-

universal medium for fostering arnity,
goodwil and mutual appreciation. The
Japanese cultural troupe presented
“Yukonna - the Snow Fairy”, a ballet.
The birth, growth, decline and death
of love between the snow fairy and her
lover through the changes of four sea sons was presented through symbolic

expressions. The Japanese also presented “The Proposal”, a Soviet play
by Anton Chekov.

for the contemporary world. It was,
hence, proper and desirable to host

Mr. Pawan Bansal, Member of Parlia-

an International Theatre Festival in

ment, proposing the vote for thanks,

India for better understanding and
friendship throughout the world. Accordingly, the International Theatre
Festival, popularly termed “lndiaTheatre Olympiad” was organised in
Chandigarh (on the foothills of
Shivalik) from 13th February to 19th
February, 1989 by NIPA.

said that theatre was the best medium

to foster international peace and universal brotherhood.

Indian Express, a national daily newspaper in its 16th February edition ex-

pressed the beginning of Theatre
Olympiad in following words. “The
Theatre Olympiad opened at Tagore

mance by the participants. held in

Rajiv blessings

Theatre on Tuesday and the audience

March, 1985. Mr. Nalin Patel, the then
Minister of State, Government of
Gujarat announced the formal inauguration of The National Institute of
Performing Arts with its headquarters
at Ahrnedabad.

Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, late
Mr. Rajiv Gandhi gave his blessings
by receiving the delegates of all the

enthusiasm came as something of a
surprise. The theatre was packed to

Barkis is willing
It was August, 1985, just 5 months
after the national Theatre Workshop

that Mr. John Ytteborg, Secretary
General of the International Amateur
Theatre Association (IATA), Denmark
was requested by Dr. Nandi to give
membership to our infant organisation,
i.e. National Institute of Performing
Arts. Mr. Ytteborg was quick enough
to endorse the idea of Dr. Nandi regarding hosting an International Theatre Festival in India vide his letter
sent In January, 1987.
NIPA was born as an educational,
cultural organisation without any po-

litical, social and religious bounds,
primarily with a view to promote,
propagate and protect various per-

forming arts and to establish peace
through culture in India and abroad

countries at his residence on 13th

February, 1989.
February 14, 1989 was a memorable
day when the Olympiad was formally
inaugurated by Mr. Ashok Pradhan,
IAS, then Adviser to the Administrator, Llnion Territory, of Chandigarh. In
fact. the inaugural ceremony was to

be performed by Mr. S.S. Ray, His
Excellency the Governor of Punjab,
but he could not make it due to unavoidable reasons. The inaugural ceremony was for all purposes and in-

tents Indian in outlook and exposition.
The small lights were kindled for the
sake of achievements of the goals for
which NIPA stands and for the larger
interest of mankind. It was the scene
to witness, to remember. to recollect
and to follow.
Mr. Pradhan said the medium of art
and culture was important for establishing close contacts between different nations. Culture was essentially a

' Secretary General (National), National Institute of Performing Arts,
69. DDA Flats, Gulrnohar Enclave, New Delhi-110049, Indla.

36

H OVEMB ER

1 5- 2 I

, I 99 l

capacity. People stood along the walls

and the language barrier notwithstanding, they stayed till the end."
Selection of teams out of those who
responded to the invitation of Secretary
General, IATA, was itself a big task to
give a fair representation to the various
cultures prevailing in the contemporary
world. Finally, the teams from Japan,
Belgium, Iceland, England, South Korea, Bulgaria, West Germany, Poland,
Soviet Union were selected for participation in this prestigious event. However, the teams fr‘om Soviet Union and
Poland did not make it.
Peace March

The troupe from Iceland performed on
Wednesday evening, a runaway success it was. The audience appreciated
the delightful comedy and enjoyed it.
No less important was 18th February,
1989 when delegates of all the countries dressed in their national costumes
and with respective national flags in
their hands, singing their national

