—
A R 'I" I C L E ”

Aristotle and Bharata are the two great
pioneers in the field of dramatic theory
whose views are still regarded as most
authentic in understanding and evaluating drama and dramatic production.
While the date of Aristotle is known to
us (384-322 B.C.). the date of Bharata
IS not definitely known, which varies
from the second century B.C. to the
sixth or seventh century AD. At any
rate there is little doubt that Bharata

ARISTOTLE AND BHARATA:
T
PRECURSORS OF DRAMATIC AR
Prof. Ajitkumar Ghosh

appeared at a later time than that of

Aristotle.
in spite of efforts of some western
scholars to show the western influence
in Natyasastra it is very difficult to
establish real inluence, though there
are many similarities of which i shall
dwell at length later on. in lndia dramatic tradition developed at the Vedic
time which is evident in the Vedic dialogues; the dramatic elements were
predominantly present in the Vedic
rituals. Panini the great grarnmarian
whose date is the fifth century B . C . , i.e.
earlier than the date of the invasion of
lndia by Alexander referred to Hatasutras, the guidelines for the natas or the
actors. the work being ascribed to Silain and Kris -asva . So it is evident from
this reference that dramatic tradition
existed before the fifth century B.C.
and that dramatic treatises were writ—
ten even before Bharata. So it is not
proper to speak of clear influence of

the Greek drama upon its lndian
counterpart or the direct impact of
Aristotle on Bharata.

Similarity
-Similarity between the Greek drama
and the lndian drama in some aspects

and for that between Poetics and
Natyasastras on some points can be
explaine'd in this way that there are
some common characteristics present

in the dramas everywhere in the world
and so the dramatic theories based on
the dramas and their performances
must necessarily follow more or less
the similar pattern. in a drama the
universally common elements are a
story presented in a dramatic form,
dialogue and some characters.
Drama is written primarily for its
immediate presentation on the stage
and secondarily, but more importantly ,
for its preservation as a piece of literature meant for the readers permanently.
But the form of drama and the method
of its production are regulated to a

38

great extent by the taste and demand
of the audience and the stage-condition and the equipments and facilities
available.
Greek theatre first developed in a
democratic society where the people
in thousands gained access to the
dramatic perfbrmance under the broad
sky and against the vast mountainous
background. Hence the drama was full
of high-flown poetry and chorus or
combined songs. Because of the
vastness of the audience the audio
aspect of the drama was more
emphasised rather than the visual
aspect.
Declamatory
When this drama was staged the acting
was naturally loud and declamatory.
the actors wore masks to make their
facial features visible to the farthest
part of the audience. they used padded
dresses, high head gears or onkos and
high-heeled shoes so that they might
look larger than life so as to add classical
grandeur to the roles they enacted.
The Indian theatre came into being in a
more developed society under royal

preferred to a rough and rugged world
of bitterness and strife.
The production of the Indian drama

within the four walls of a play-house
with the aid of artificial light before a
limited audience sitting close to the
stage naturally laid more stress on the
visual aspects such as nepathyabidhan
or costume, toiletry, make-up, stageAngika
besides
de-coration.
Abhinay,i.e. . movement of different
limbs of the body- and minpte, meaningful expression on the face caused
by flexible action of the skin and
muscles.
80 we find two kinds of drama. two
kinds of theatre and two methods of

production in Greece and lndia. Aristotle and Bharata have based their
theories on the drama and dramatic

production existing in their respective
countries. Sometimes they have followed the common track and some-

times they have followed a parallel
track. But the fundamentals are the
same and there is much in common

and very little contradictory to one
another.

or Sangitasala which was like the
modern theatre divided into three
parts - l‘lepathyagriha (green room) .
highly-sophisticated stage and audi—

Poetics
Aristotle's Poetics divided into twenty
six chapters deals mainly with drama
(tragedy) and in the last four chapters
he has discussed about epic poetry.
the last chapter being devoted to a

torium. The number of the spectators

comparison between the two. Imitation

was naturally much limited among
whom were the king and the
members of the royal family, the
courtiers, the learned connoisseurs,
the rich merchants and a few
parasites or hangers-on belonging to
the low community. Hence to please
such an enlightened and critical
audience the drama was obviously
full of rhetoric and high poetry.
polished and embellished and the
world of romance and beauty was

theory. definition of tragedy and cornedy. structure of drama, characters.
poetic diction and the essentials of epic
poetry - these are the topics discussed
in Poetics.
Aristotle has admitted that drama is
meant for public performance - ‘His
work being for public performance',
but he also belittled the productional
side of drama. According to him. The
tragic effect is quite possible without a

patronage. Drama came to be staged
in a play-house called Prekshagriha

NOVEM B ER

1 5-2 1 .

1 99 1

public performance and actors. and

