A R ’1" I C L E यम-मब"--------------------

besides the getting up of the spectacle
is more a matter for the costumer than

the poet (T r. by Bywater), Butcher's
translation is - ‘Besides. the production
of spectacular effects depends more
on the art of the stage rnechanist than
on the poet'.
Because of this indifference to dramatic production, Aristotle, it seems,
did not think it necessary to discuss
anything regarding theatre and theatrical production.

Bharata on the other hand paid equal
attention to the literary and theatrical
aspects of drama. Aristotle has dealt

only with the thery ofdrarna but Bharata
has dicussed both the theory and prac-

tice of drama, indeed there is no other
work in drarnaturgy so elaborate, so
comprehensive and so detailed as
Natyasastra. it deals with art, craft,
plastic art, music, song, dance, art of
acting, dressing, stagecraft, audience,

poetics, metrics, language, and sentiments. In the words of Bharata - Na
tajjnanam na tachhilparn na sa vidya
na sa kala Na sa yogo na tatkarrna
natyesrnin yanna drisyate ~ There is no
knowledge, no art, no learning, no craft,
no meditation, no work that is not seen
in this drama.
Dionysus
The origin of the Greek drama and the
lndian drama was similar. The Greek
drama originated from the dithyrarnb
song mixed with dance which was
performed during the festival of Dionysus, while the Indian drama had a

divine origin which has been thus narrated in the Natyasastra. The gods
approached Brahma to compose the
fifth Veda or the Natyaveda with a
mixture of the visual and audio elements which would be pleasing to the
gods and the demons alike. Brahma
asked Bharata to produce the
Hatyaveda. Accordingly Bharata produced the first drama entitled Samudra

_

construct the play - house to protect the
actors and the audience from the van dalism of the undesirable elements.

Bharata, Prahasana is akin two
Aristotle's comedy as in it also the

Puppet Play

prostitute, parasite cheat, swindler etc.

Some scholars have expressed the
opinion that Greek drama originated
from mime (Aristotle has referred to

in Greece after three tragedies a grotesque fourth play was performed
named Satyr play with obscene language and gestures and violent dances
obviously to provide relief to the audience. Like Satyr play Prahasana was
short (one-act play) with low characters and comic dialogue — ‘Nichajana
sang' prajuktam Parihasabhashanaprayam’ .
Striking
ln Natyasastra the main Rupaka
(drama) is called Nataka which bears
striking similarity with Aristotle's serious drama called tragedy. Aristotle
has said, ‘ln Tragedy they still adhere
to the historic names'. He has further
said regarding the characters of tragedy, ...‘those in the enjoyment of great
reputation and prosperity, e.g. Oedipus, Thyestes, and the men of note of
similar families'. Bharata's criterion for
Nataka is similar.
About the plot and character of Nataka
Bharata has said, ‘Prakhyata Bastubishayarn Prakhyatodatta-Nayakam
Chaiba — The plot should be wellknown and the hero should be famous
and large-hearted. He has further said,
‘Nripatinam Yacchanritarn Nanaras-

the rnirnes of Sophron and Xenarchus) ,

similarly some scholars are of the view
that lndian drama has grown from
puppet-play or shadow-play. These
views are all controversial and are not
universally accepted.
Both Aristotle and Bharata are strikingly similar in their views on imitation
as the basis of drama. According to
Aristotle all arts are different modes of
imitation. Tragedy, as he said, is an
imitation of action. Bharata has said,
‘Lokabrittanukaranam Natymetanmaya kritam’ l have made this drama
based on the action of man. Bharata
has again said, ‘Devatanamasuranam
Rajnamatha Kutumbinam Kritanukaranarn Loke Natyamiti Abhidhiyate —
lrnitation of the action of gods, demons, kings and domestic people is

called drama.
In his definition of drama Aristotle has
referred to its structure, language and
its embellishment, prsentation in ac-

tion and effect on the minds of the
auidence, i.e. he has laid stress on the

literary form of drama. But in his definition Bharata has said, — ‘Yoyang
Swabhabo Lokasya Sukhaduhkhasarnanvita/ Soangadyabhinayopetah
Natyamityabhidhiyate’ — Man’s nature mixed with happiness and sorrow

when presented through acting is called
drama.
Stage Acting
The difference between Aristotle and
Bharata is that while the fOrmer has

confined himself to the purely literary
form, the latter has defined drama as a
representation of life through stage-

rnanthanarn.

acting.

As Dionysus was the presiding God of
the Greek theatre so was Siva or Nataraja to the lndian theatre. Both were

Aristotle has broadly divided drama
into two classes, comedy and tragedy.
The larnpooners became writers of

gods of fertility. As in Greece, drama in

comedy and the epic poets were suc-

lndia also originated from dance accompanied with music. It may be
mentioned in this connection that lndian theatre like its Greek counterpart
was originally an open-air theatre, but
due to the disturbances created by the

ceeded by tragedians. The comedians
wandered from village to village, being
excluded conternptuously from the city.
This is why Aristotle has said that

demons Brahma asked Viswakarrna to

comedy is an imitation of characters of

a lower type. Among ten classes of
drama (Dasarupaka) enumerated by

N OV EM B ER

1 5- 2 l,

l 99 1

characters are of a lower type, such as

abhaba Cheshtitairbahudha/Sukhad-

uhkhotpattikritarn Tajjneyam Natakamnama' - In a drama the action,
emotion and sentiment arising out of

happiness and sorrow of the kings are
shown.
Bharata’s ‘Sukhaduhkhotpattikritarn'
means that drama deals with both
happiness and sorrow similar to Greek
comedy and tragedy. The Word ‘Rasabhabacheshtitam’ may be mentioned
in this connection. ‘Cheshtitam’ here
denotes something like action in Poetics. In the words of Aristotle...“it is in
our action — what we do—that we are
happy or the reverse'. Aristotle has

said that thereare tragedies where incidents and names alike are fictitious
and yet they give none the less pleasure' Such tragedies fall in the same
category of drama named as Prakarana by Bharata, — ‘Yatra Kaviratrnasaktya Bastusarirancha Nayakam
chaiba/Autpattikam Prakurute Prakaranarnetad Budhairjneyam' — the
drama in which the poet conceives the

39

