A R T I C L E I

plot, and the character with his power
(imagination) is called Prakarana.
Aristotle has laid stress on the unity of
action and the unity of time (single
circuit of the sun). Aristotle has not
rnerntioned unity of place which was
only a stage-practice and deduced by
the later ciritics. Among the Dasaru-

pakas in Natyasastra there is at least
one kind of drama called Byayoga

where the action is confined within one
day - ‘Ekahakritasthata.’ In the Greek
drama there is no diversion in acts , but
the Sanskrit drama like the roman
drama; is divided into acts.
in an act the action of one day is shown

- ‘Ekadivasaprabrittah Karyah‘ , and,
moreover, in an act there should not be

many actions. So, the unity of time and
unity of action are maintained within
an act and thus the drama within an act
resembles a whole Greek drama.

pus Tyrannus) , or a note of joy as in a
comedy, e.g. ‘And follow along at the
rear of the throng, rejoicing and/singing our festival song' (Phitus-Aristophanes). But at the end in a Sanskrit

drama Bharatavakya is uttered wishing welfare and properity to all.
Benediction
So, Sanskrit drama begins with
benediction to god and ends with a
wish for the good of mankind. The
beginning and end of the drama in two
countries only point out the difference
in attitude to man and the supernatural
force guiding the destiny of man. The
Greek drama is concerned with this
mundane world which is full of
bitterness, strife and calamity. God in
this world is cruel and ruthless. But the
lndian view is this that God is benign
and merciful, He ultimately brings about
peace and harmony. Hence the drama
begins with the worship of Gods and

Cessation
ends with a wish for universal peace
An act is a division of drama where
there is a temporary cessation of dramatic activity and the actors and actresses can take rest for sornewhile.
Hataka and Prakarana, have five to ten
acts, Dirna is of four acts, Sarnabakara

has three-, lharnriga has three or four

and happiness.
The aim of tragedy according to Aristotle is...‘through pity and fear effecting the purgation of these emotions’.
The purgation of pity and fear gives a
pleasurable feeling. in the words of
Butcher, ‘lt is precisely in this transport

acts and the other five dramas are one-

act dramas only. The Greek drama has
no act, the action here is continuous
but here also the action is divided into

five parts, - Prologue. Parode, Episode.
Stasirnon and Exode. Here each part of
the action is followed by a chorus song,
Prologue, Episode and Exode being
the parts of action proper. Prologue in

of feeling, which carries a man beyond

his individual self that the distinctive
tragic pleasure resides.’ The aim of
drama according to Bharata is to evoke
sentiment (Rasa) in the mind of the

audience,

‘Bibhabanubhaba-

byabhicharisangyo-gadrasanishpattih’

- Rasa is aroused by a mixture of
Bibhaba, Anubhaba and Byabhichari

Greek drama resembles Prastabana in
Sanskrit drama.

in a Prologue the subject of the drama
and also the situation from which it
starts are stated, so it is both prospec-

tive and retrospective. But in Prastabana the statement is only prospective
informing about the play, playwright
and the subject of the play. Prastabana
is more elaborate with benediction to
god, song, dance, and dialogue between the Sutradhar (Producer) and
his assistant and a dancer or actress.
Bharata has discussed the preliminaries in detail in his Purbarangabidhan.
The Greek drama ends in a chorus
song in which there is a philosophical
utterance of a tragic truth as in a

gragedy, e.g. ‘And of no mortal say/
That man is happy, till/Vexed by no
grievous ill/He pass life’s goal' (Oedi-

40

bhaba. This Rasa is universal and
always pleasurable.
Sentiment
Like tragic pleasure when a person is
transported from his individual self he
feels pleasure in every sentiment, even
pathetic sentiment (Karuna Rasa) is
pleasurable to him. Hence Aristotle
and

Bharata

are

very

close

in

enunciating the pleasure-principle in
drama.
Aristotle has given more importance to

plot - ‘The Plot then is the first principle, and, as it were the soul of a
tragedy, character holds the second
place' But this soul has been called the
body by Bharata, ‘ltibrittam Tu Natyaya
Sarirarn Parikirtitam' - the plot is called
the body of drama. Bharata’s view
seems to be more correct. Plot is the

N OVEM B ER

l 5 - 2 l.

l 991

external arrangement of the incidents
and situations, pity and fear or Rasa

may be called the soul of drama.
According to Aristotle the plot is of two
kinds, - simple and complex. When the
action is continuous and the change of
fortune takes place without Peripety
and Discovery, the plot is simple. But

when the change takes place through
Peripety and Discovery the plot is
complex. He has further said that the
plot must be a whole, complete in itself
and of adequate magnitude. It has three
stages, Beginning, Middle and End.
Stages
These three stages may be compared

with five stages or Pancha Avastha as
enumerated in Natysastra, Prararnbha, Prayatna , Praptisambhava,
Phalagama.
and
Hiyatapti
Corresponding to these five stages there
are five elements of the plot, - Bija,
Bindu, Pataka, Prakari, Karya. Like the
joints of the body the plot has five joints
orjunctures - Pancha Sandhi. They are
Mukha (opening), Pratirnukha
(progression) , Garbha (development),
Nirvahana
(Pause),
Vimarsa
(conclusion).
Aristotle has said, the plot is broadly
divided into two parts, - Complication
and Denouement. Complication covers the plot from the beginning to the
point of the start of the change of
fortune of the hero and from that point
to the end is covered by Denouement.
The fourjunctures Mukha, Pratirnukha,
Garbha and Vimarsa may be cornpared with the Complication part and
Nirvahana is just like the Denouernent
or conclusion of the plot.
Classes

Bharata has divided the plot or ltibritta
into two dasses-Adhikarika and Prasangika. In the Adhikarika ltibritta the
purpose of the hero is attained and in
the Prasangika ltibritta the purpose is

not attained but is a means for fulfilment of that purpose. it mav take the
dimension of an episode (pataka) or a
mere incident (prakari). It may be
mentioned in this connection that Aristorle has said that the episodic plots
are the worst.

Aristotle has aimed at four qualities of
character - goodness. propriety, trueness to life, consistency. Bharata has
discussed elaborately diffe. ent classes
of characters, their moods, mental
states, behaviour, peculiar actions, etc.

