A R T I C L E य-यब-ब-यब-------------------h

Aristotle has said there are three types
of character, - ideal, real and inferior.
According to Bhara ta character should
be high, middle or low. Corresponding
to four qualities of hero as enumerated
by Aristotle Bharata has named four
classes of hero, - Dhirodatta, Dhiroddhata, Dhiralalita, Dhiraprasanta.
Aristotle has placed the woman char-

acter under the inferior category. To
quote his words - ‘though the woman
may be said to be an inferior being, and
the slave quite worthless'.

Dominating
It is very strange that Aristotle has
thought woman to be an inferior being
as we see such strong and dominating
women in Greek drama as Medea,
Electra, Clytemnstra, etc. But in
Natyasastra respect is shown to woman

As in Greek drama song was also an
integral part of Indian drama, in
Natyasastra dramatic song was called
Dhruva. There were five classes of
Druva, - Prabesiki, Akshepiki,
Naishkramiki, Prasadiki and Antara.
Prabesiki was sung as the characters
entered the stage and Naishkramiki

was sung during their exit, Akshepiki
during imprisonment, illness and death,
the aim of Prasadiki was to calm the
excited audience and Antara at the
time of sorrow, indifference or anger.
The timing of the dramatic action was
also indicated by the Dhruva songs.
Spectacle
Aristotle has not discussed anything
regarding the element of spectacle
because of his dislike for this element.
He has said, ‘The Spectacle has, indeed an emotional attraction of its own,

equal to man. Female characters are of
three kinds - (.lttama, Madhyarna and
Adhama. Nanasastrarthasampanna but of all the parts it is the least artistic
Ga rnbhiryaudaryasal in i/Sthairya tya and connected least with the art of
poetry. For, the power of Tragedy, we
gagunopeta Jneya Prakritiruttama’- A may be sure is felt even apart from
good-natured woman is she who is representation and actors.
versed in different Sastras, grave and
liberal and is endowed with the quali- on the contrary, Bharata has started
ties of patience and forbearance. The his Natyasastra with theatre and percharacter Mahadevi is held in high formance and he has then passed on to
esteem within a royal family who is literary aspects of drama . He has given
clam and unperturbed, pure, and de- all the details of stage, Hepathya, and
voted to the welfare of the inmates of auditorium, dance, acting etc. and the
the family - “Santa Patibrata, Dhira, art of production . So, Natyasastra may
also be termed Prayogasastra’.
Antahpurahite Rata'.
There is also casual similarity between Diction according to Aristotle implies
some minor characters belonging to two things, first it denotes mode of
both dramas parasite and Bita, keep- utterance, secondly it means the exing slaves and freeing them is also seen pression of the meaning in words. The
first, of Diction, has much similarity
in the dramas of Greece and lndia.
with the mode of address to different
Chorus
persons in Natysastra. In the words of
Every tragedy according to Aristotle Aristotle, the perfection of style is to be
must have six parts, - Plot, Character,
clear without being mean’. He has furDiction, Thought, Spectacle, and Song.
ther said, ‘The clearest style is that
While explaining his definition of drama , which uses only current or proper
Aristotle has said, ‘l mean, that some words’.
parts are rendered through the meFar-sighted

dium of verse alone, others again with

the aid of song'. Obviously he referred
here to chorus song which is an integral part of Greek drama. Greek chorus
was often accompanied with dances
and there was a chief of the band of
singers, who at times took part in the

action of the drama.

Bharata has also expressed similar
opinion, —Mridula|itapadartham Gurhasabdarthahinarn. Janapadasukhabhogyam Buddhirnannrityayojyam’ Words and their meanings should be
tender and sweet, where there is no
unintelligible word with dubious mean -

N OVEM B ER

l 5 - 2 l.

1 99 1

ing, which can be easily understood by

a man living in village, enlivened with
intellect and suited to dance'. This
passage proves unmistakably how farsighted Bharata was to bring the performance to the common people.

The style, according to Aristotle is not
mean when it is lofty and raised above
the commonplace by addition of

unusual words which mean strange,
metaphorical and lengthened words.
Bharata has also said about the
ornamentation of style by the use of
four kinds of rhetorical figures - Upama,
Dipaka, Rupaka, and Yamaka

Both Aristotle and Bharata have
discussed at length the metrical
patterns used in poetry. Both Aristotle

and Bharata have elaborately dealt
with the parts of speech, formation of
words, construction of sentences and
other grammatical rules. While Aristotle
has given a plethora of illustrations
from the texts, Bharata has gone into
the details of grammatical rules.
Aristotle has discussed the language
and style of drama in general, but
Bharata has classified the language of
drama into four categories, Atibhasha,
A ry a b h a s h a ,
J a t i bh a s h a
and
Yonya n t ari bh a sha .

Language
Atibhasha, the language meant for the
gods, Aryabhasha for the kings,
Jatibhasha may be either Sanskrit and

Prakrita according to the characters
using and yonyantari bhasha for the

beasts and birds. The aboriginal tribes
speak in dialects (Bibhasha). Bharata
has also recommended the use of
regional Prakrit languages for the
characters of different regions.
Bharata’s realistic attitude to drama is
revealed in his elaborate and minute
observations on the use of spoken and
regional languages by the characters
consistent with their ethnic and regional
identity, social position and behavioural
pattern. He has mentioned broadly two
classes of acting - Hatyadharmi
Lokadharmi, which show that he did
not confine himself to classical form of
production only but he was equally
interested in the folk form of production
also.

4l

