ARTICLE —
Innovation and experimentation is a
constant phenomenon in the Theatre.

The very nature of the medium is such
that one is never dealing with a static

INDIAN THEATRE: EUPHORIA
0F GLORIOUS TWO DECADES

situation.
The current theatre scene taken as a
whole presents a confusing picture. To

Mohan Maharishi *

clear this would mean that one will
have to discuss the developments of
the entire post-independence period.
But such logical unfolding of the present scene would mean entering into
historical details which, besides consuming precious time, might throw up

disagreements on levels which could
mar discussions on more important

aspects.
i would, therefore, be content to briefly
refer to the period which is still fondly
remembered by some of my colleagues
as a period of significant departures.
Yes! i am referring to the sixties and
early seventies! Such was the euphoria
generated by the developments spear
headed by playwrights like Tendulkar,
Rakesh, Karnad and Badal Sircar that
one totally lost sight of the pitfalls and
complex problems inherent in the works
made at that time.
Unbridled
The first and foremost difficulty with
this Theatre was its unbridled imitative
character. The neo-existentialist
thought which pervaded the western
dramatic models of the time were borrowed and were administered uncriti-

cally to a culturally softened and there fore gullible cosmopolitan public which
lapped it up more for the ‘social' importance of this Theatre rather than its
intrinsic artistic value.

The neo-existentialists, popularly
known as ‘absurdists' were making
Theatre within very tight parameters
presented by their own dramatic tradition and contemporary anxities. Their
departure was significant, within their
own context also, only as far as they
were able to resolve the form/content
duality in the texts written for Theatre.
The exsistentialist Theatre which pre-

plane and could not be translated in

valid theatrical images for, as playwrights, they were still using props of
the conventional Theatre. Some of them
were great novelists and poets but poor
playwrights.

we did not believe in the ‘thought’ we
had no business to lift models which
were made to carry it. But in case,
which is unlikely. any of us honestly
shared the vision of the European
absurdists we should have. after
‘Godot’, kept our pens down as Tennesse Williams did. He admitted that

lnsu rmounta ble
his career as a playwright has ended

The new thought had to wait to be
rendered in its true dramatic form till
the poetic brilliance of Beckett and
Jean Genet adopted it and turned it
into luminous images on the stage. But
the Indian playwrights of the sixties
took all kinds of models and piled up
more contradictions of their own.
First of all the anxieties underlying the
‘content' were borrowed and secondly
they were ‘mouthed’ by characters
named as Miss Benare, lndrajit, Mahendranath, even Tughlaq and Kalidasa.
Ending of such plays inevitably pres-

ents insurmountable problems of form
but there the playwrights made use of
their training as short story writers so
the actors (poor fellows! had to bear
the burden of delivering those terribly
long and boring speeches towards the
endings of these plays.
Some playwrights of that so called
‘glorious period’ of lndian Theatre went
a step further. Having established a
firm premise for an existentialist or
even nihilistic ending developed cold
feet somewhere in the last phase of the
work and tried to mitigate the severity
of the message by tampering with the
medium.

ceded them, that in the Theatre of
camus, Sartre and Durrenrnatt failed to
do so in the sense that their break-

Optimistic

through remained on philosophical

“optimistic” ending on their works. If

They induldged in sentimental versification to stitch a wholly incongruous

after witnessing “waiting for Godct' on
Broadway.

Before we finally dismiss this whole
nonsense about the ‘glorious 60's one
more word about the Absurdists of the
West. The breakthrough they achieved ,
even the most successful ones, like
Beckett, remained largely on the level
of text. it did not touch the actor very
much, the sole creator of the theatrical
image.

The actor, was still doing the same old
job, mouthing words. The body, his
principal tool of expression remained

grossly underused even in this avant
garde Theatre. Becket, Ionesco,
Adamov, Pinter, they all were perpe-

trators of “talking" Theatre. The only
exception was Genet who was very
French, in the sense he linked himself
to the tradition of Antoin Artaund and
consciously worked to liberate the actor
from the tyranny of words.

Experimental
One dealt with all this in some detail
for, in my view it would be necessary to
firmly reject this so called ‘glorious
period of the 60's as a period of great
innovations and experirnentations in
lndian Theatre before initiating any
serious discussion on the future course
of the lndian experimental theatre. But
wait a minute! Was all the work done in

‘ Chairman, Department of Indian Theatre, Panjab University, Chandigarh (lndia)

H OVEM B ER

l 5- 2 l .

1 99 1

43

