’
A R ’I‘ I C L E _

the 60's by the playwrights and the directors a total loss? Is there nothing for
us to learn from those models? No! of
course not.

No serious endeavour can be entirely
fruitless. But what we gained can be
quickly summed up:
A) That theatre helped us to rid ourselves with box-sets and all that
goes with them. We were relatively freer in the use of space from

Rakesh's

Adhe-Adhure,

Tendulkar’s ‘Khamosh’ and
Karnad's Tughlaq. This explains
the limited success these plays
enjoyed with the audiences in the
large and small cities of our
country.
C) The fervor wholly imitative in the
beginning, ultimately did produce
3 or 4 works oflasting value. Adya’s
“Kedu Janmeyaya" despite its terrible structural flows remains a
noteworthy achievement. C.T.
Khanolkor’s “Ek Shoonya Bajirao",
Lankesh’s “Parten” or Alegalu and
two plays of Tendulkar,
“Sakharam” and “Ghasiram” are
authentic theatrical pieces. A
Couple of plays of CO. Thomas
and Srikanth Nair are also significant and valid works. The rest
perhaps we can afford to forget at
this point of time.
Tradition
What happened subsequently had its
own irony. God said, “Let there be
light" and there was light! Suddenly we
became very aware, very

conscious

that we have a ‘tradition' which is thousands of years old and which is very
rich, deep and great, etc. One began to
hear about countless folk and classical
forms spread through the length and
breadth of the nation.
All of a sudden we totally wanted to
forget what we were doing in order to
revive the great magic of the tradition
with which our colonial masters so

rnischieviously severed our links. Now
we were born a and we no more needed
to ape them. On the contrary, we had

44

who cares to know, knows. Driven by

their own profound conpulsions and
serious problems, the West turned to

us and to many other cultures in the
East. Though it would be worthwhile to
enquire what those precise compul-

sions and problems were, and are, and
why and how those needs surfaced.

then on.

B) As it always happens, even in
entirely borrowed and transplanted
anexieties, some real middle class
anxieties unwillingly penetrated as
in

something to teach them. This is still
often said and I am afraid, believed.
What really happened? Why were
week suddenly running around the
streets, shouting EUREKA! Everyone

Th eoretician 5
But I do not think l am disposed to go
into that. At this moment my point of
reference are now THEY. Sufficient it
would be to say that the elements and
aspects of Indian tradition which interests the west are not necessarily
those which WE need to seek in our
own tradition. Our cultural needs are
different, because of our peculiar
situation.
This fact requires thinking and proper
attention by our theoreticians and
practitioners. True, that it is only a
matter of difference and emphasis.
True, that we also seek a living and
dynamic relationship with our entire

heritage but even such difference of
emphasis can be vital at certain stages
of development.
This will have to be said that our search ,
even in our Own tradition, was

hopelessly diluted by imitation and
considerations, which I better not admit

for it fills me with shame and disgust. It
would be enough to mention that those
considerations were largely extra-

talked into performing this appalling
show.

Dismal
Despite some marginally successful
experimental work in the late 70's and
80’s the overall scene today presents a
dismal and highly unsatisfactory picture of the Indian Theatre.

Without going into the merits or
demerits of individual works, I would
straightaway state that by and large
our tentative flirtations with the
traditional forms have produced
ludicrous results and have only served
to drive away the audiences which

were so painstakingly built by the
brilliant work of stalwarts like Shambu
Mitra, Uttpal Dutt, E. Alkazi, P.L.
Deshpande and Habib Tanveer, and
that, too, without, compromising their
idea of good Theatre.
I think we went about the whole business of experimentation in a wrong
manner.

Impact
Instead of looking critically and scientifically at the work of these master
performers and learning from their successes and failures, we went directly to
the traditional forms. Instead of tracing
the impact of the Tradition on their

work we wanted to return to the tradition which was largely insulated, archaic, and therefore, inaccessible to
sensibilities altered through the dayto-day living processes and the pres-

sures of history. The post-IPTA Theatre had both a burning social concern
and a living relationship with the folk
artistic and the uncritical manner in
which we went for the Western Theatre theatrical culture.
of the 50's and the 60’s was once again The social realism of Shambu Kitra’s
repeated.
Theatre had the poetic essence of the
Just as the first phase, that is the Tagorean drama while the overtly
‘upsurge of the 60’s, ultimately degen- propagandist Theatre of (.Ittpal Dutt
erated into the poor copy of the agit- had strong influences ofJatra and Saul
prop. Theatre of the 30's in the West, narrative singing. P.L. Deshpande's
the second phase produced results one-man shows, in their own unique
which were equally ludicrous. One saw ‘ way, showed a total actor in full spate,
Dr. Faust in ‘Kathakali style’, Antigone imbued in the folk traditions of his
in ‘Chauoo style’ and once, while at- region. On the other hand, Alkazi, with
tending a seminar in Bombay, I had to his deep understanding of the Western
sit through a hilarious version of even theatrical culture, evolved a personal
a happening like Bhopal gas tragedy in style of Indian Theatre wich had its own
‘Koodiyattam style', the poor highly chiselled presentational brilliance. His Theatre presented an interChakkyar, great master of his art, was

N OVEM B ER

1 5- 2 1,

I 99 1

