A R T I C L E A

GLOBAL PEACE THROUGH THEATRE:
TIIE EMERGING DIMENSIONS
Dr. Prakash K. l‘landi*

Surprisingly, it may be that we are in

truth. It is like a fire and has be potential
to destroy the social structure, as also

In the beginning of human life, there
was no language. The world was peaceful and natural, of course with much

the throes of a Third World War. To
avoid human suffering which is in
danger of turning into a holocaust, the

less population. For survival the human search was for Food and Sex.

message to perpetratos of human

which this media is handled.

Conflicts is, Give up Bullets, Learn
Ballet Avoid Cruelty, understand Culture, the Culture of each other. Efforts
are on for centuries by eminent world
leaders to bring home the message

Universal

When language developed the human
civilization stepped up its outreach and
the world became more complicated.
Rationalism faded out a bit and in its
place new ideals like Nationalism and
the ‘lsms' found their way in.

plank to the people.
In fact, over the eges, nothing has

The inherent courage of the people put

a check on the powerful inﬂuence of
visionaries and thoughts and ideas
flowed freely from people to people. A
new generation of leaders—social, religious, orthodox, cultural, political and
educational—was born to discover the
new human identification.
The wide universe became smaller and

diversified. Multifarious conflicts and
dogrnatisrn played pivotal roles in the
life-style of people.
Universal

Today, we are afraid to understand
each other. Mother earth or the universal soil has been divided into many.

Violations of the rule of law, leading to
conflicts are prevailing around the
world.
War between one country and another

has given the caution to the would and
its one family ideal: Regain human
values and restore peace in the world.
The Misuse of the Atom Bomb has

taught us to beware of another Hiroshima. The recent GulfWar has accentuated the search for global peace.

'

brought man closer to man as the
cultural exchanges among countries.
Perhaps, the earliest evidence of this

on record is the sort of exchange that
existed among Syria, Mesopotamia,
Babylon and lndia during the Indus
Valley Civilization (2500-1750 BC).
Example
Setting an example among monarchs
was Asoka the Great who had sent his
daughter to Ceylon, now known as Sri
Lanka, and the Buddhist monks to

Central and South-East Asia to pro—
mote the cause of humanity.
Reciprocating similarly were other
countries-some of them European.
The world since then has become a
smaller place indeed. Be it for the arts,
science, technology or sports, the
border separating Nations is a mere
formality in cementing ties among the
people.

But what is the role of ‘Theatre' in
terms of global peace. It has momentous import. We are sure that theatre is
as old as mankind. Theatre reflects the

Dr. Prakash K. Hand], Is the founder of NIPA and Honorary Chief Advisor,
He is a formar member of the Asian Cultural Centre for UNESCO, Tokyo.

46

N OV EM B ER

l 5 - 2 l,

l 99 l

to build a new one-world depending
upon the production and balance with

Theatre is universal like music and
dance, transcending all linguistic and
cultural barriers and building bridges
of human understanding between
people of different lands.
Moreover, Theatre has no language. It
does not consider any caste, creed,

colour and religion. Theatre has no
particulargeographicaljurisdiction, but
the motif is to keep people free from
anxiety, provide aesthetic pleasure and
open the scope of a space boundless
for peaceful co-existance.

History
History has it that all the developed
and developing countries enhanced
their socio-economic status not keep-

ing behind the theatrical activities. The
father of Modern Drama, lbsen sought
through his play economic freedom to
people, to give importance to human

values. l would like to add one more
freedom, that is, social, as distinct from

political freedom.
This should be within the Nation and
we will search the new meaning of a
universe for the purpose ofglobal peace
by pronouncing Unity in Variety. And
the ‘Theatre' would be an avenue and
bridge for human understanding and
for establishing global peace for the
people and posterity.

