A R T I C L E यब-ब-ब-------

Great cultural resurgence of the postindependence period greatly invigo-

rated various arts, brought about the
revival of popular and folk minor per-

formance forms, arts and crafts falsifying the prophets of doom. who saw
decline and death of traditional and
folk arts with the growing popularity
and expansion of electronic media,

EMERGENCE OF‘ NEW CONTEMPORARY
THEATRE IN RESURGENT INDIA
Dr. Suresh Awasth i *

and fast, unplanned modernisation with
borrowed values and life style.
The resurgence has resulted in the

flowering and popularisation of classical performing arts of music and dance,
and has brought about the participation of larger and younger audiences to
their enjoyment. it also generated a
process of decolonisation of theatre
practice which resulted in the emergence of ‘new’ theatrical idiom with
indigenous performance values. Modern lndian theatre as it evolved during
the early 19th century under the direct
influence of British theatrical traditions
had a colonial face. This caused violent dislocation from the performance
tradition of 3000 years—a rich tradition which has greatly cultivated the art
of the performer. and emphasised the
values of stylisation.

closes communication channels. ln
lndian tradition a performance is di-

For the directors of ‘new’ theatre, actor’s

rectly addressed to the spectators,

have become more important than the
conventional rehearsals. Several directors have developed their own
methods utilising warm-up exercises
and movement patterns from regional
systems of the martial arts, gymnastics, acrobatics, theatrical forms, ritual
performances, and oral fbrms of recitation and chant for training in body,

opens the communication channels,

and involves them in the performance
as participants. Traditionally, in India a
performance has been seen by moving

and from different angles and levels.
Thus, the rejection of the proscenium
theatre by the directors in mid-60,5

marked the beginning of the emergence of ‘new’ theatre. By bringing
about a participative relationship between the actors and spectators, directors put greater emphasis on the art of

the actor. and following the tradition
made him focal to the performance
activity. This led to the renewed efforts

training and preparatory workshops

voice and speech.

With the changed role, the directors
make most creative encounter with the

text, and formulate their interpretation
and evolve their own performance
design in accordance with the performance tradition oftheir region. Never

The Revolt
in training the actor, who in the spoken

The ‘new’ theatre is the result of search
for identity and return to the roots, rediscover and creatively utilise rich
performance heritage which has amazing regional variations and represents
distinctive regional performance cultures. The search was also inspired by
a desire to break away from the deadly
spoken realistic theatre which has
always been alien in a performance

tradition in which a dramatic performance is a synthesis of various literary,
pictorial and graphic arts, and has a
composite character.

This revolt against the realistic mould
in theatre resulted in rejecting proscenium theatre, and dismantling of real-

theatre had remained miserably untrained. Trained actors liberated from

the shackles of proscenium theatre
and the realistic set started using their
bodies and creating stunning visual
images. ‘Theatre of images has replaced that of words.
One of the several qualities of ‘new'
theatre is strong physicality and plasticity in a theatrical performance. The

elements of physicality and plasticity
were introduced in the avant-garde
Euro-American theatre in mid‘ -60's as
a revolt against the spoken theatre

ance design with strong local colour.
They maximise staging signs based on
the verbal signs of thetext.
in such a process, rather than the
negation and suppression of the dra-

matic text, it is more the exploration of
the nuances and images of the text and
its illumination by the staging signs

and codes. In his new role, director is
concerned with the whole process of a
theatrical production.
The production designs of these per-

formances and the role of the director

which had deprived a theatrical per-

in creating these designs, is not a matter

formance of the most eloquent body
language of the actor.

of his ‘tyranny', but playing his role
more positively in the transference of
dramatic text into performance text.

istic set. The directors rightly realised
that it was the character of space and
the positioning of the performers in
relation to the spectators that largely
determined the nature, structure and

FTCSCOCS

aesthetics of performance. The performance conventions of a proscenium

lost during the phase of realistic spo—

theatre introduced in India in early 19th
century had forced a frontal view of
performance, which by its very nature

before in modern theatre practice, has
there been such a variety of perform -

Colour

in India, following the age-old tradition,
physicality and plasticity were imparted
to a theatrical production which it had

In the performance design and
aesthetics of ‘new’ theatre, the nature

seeing Ajanta frescoes and early sculp-

and the role of music is important. it is
no more a matter of theatre with music.
Music is not used merely for the sake of
variety and colour or to create or

tural panels.

intensify mood, atmosphere and

ken theatre. Plasticity of classical
Sanskrit theatre can be visualised by

" Former Chairman, National School of Drama.

N OV EM B ER

l 5- 2 l ,

l 99 l

47

