A R T V] C L E w

emotion-charged background. Also,
singing is not to be understood as
exalted speaking. The music is there,
both instrumental and vocal, because
of its inevitability. and as an integral
part of production design. Singing and
recitative portions of the performance
are not because an emotional state in
a dramatic situation had reached an
intensity that can no longer be
conveyed through speaking. and
singing is to be restored to as a more
powerful mode of expression. That has
been the reason of use of music in
conventional theatre.

Shift
Music in these productions has ac-

quired the character of theatrical
communication, different from the
spoken language. The shift from speak ing to singing in these productions is
not artificial and ornamental. Thus, it is
in its nature, dramatic functions and
communicative quality that the music
in ‘new' theatre has acquired a totally
different character from the music as
used in conventional ways in conven-

48

tional theatre. Theatre music is not

music as it is. It is shifted from its
natural domain, and given a new idiom
and purpose. It has become structural
and aesthetic need of performance.

Syntax
The ‘new’ theatre has a different approach to the dramatic text from the
one adopted in the literary theatre. In

are used to transform dramatic text

into performance text. Theatrical signs
could be movements, music, handgestures, costume. props, sounds and

colours. Such a complex performance
text is the creation of the director, who
is as much the ‘author' of the new text
as the playwright is that of the dramatic
text.

this approach lierary text is transformed
into performance text by adding staging signs and codes, and a new theat-

Highly developed and codified performance modes like Kudiyattam,
Kathakali, Hoh and Kabuki are as much

rical syntax is created. Such a performance text has the qualities of reada bility like the literary text. and theatri-

tume, make-up. movements, hand-

cal syntax is analysed by understand-

ing the meanings and connections
between various performance elements
which constitute a new and different
syntax—theatrical syntax. In the literary theatre performance text is read in
relation to the understanding of the
grammatical syntax of the text, and we
are concerned with relationships between word signs. ln theatrical syntax
we focus on the relationship between

the signs of many different kinds that

NOVEMBER

15-21. 199,

‘read’ as seen. Visual images of cosgestures in Kathakali construct a performance text of symbols and signs
which is as much ‘read' as seen for its
fuller understanding. In ‘reading' these
performances the basic function of the
mind is that of interpreting signs. The
visual or retinal configuration of the
written word is translated into
meaning. Like words. the movements, hand -gestures , shapes . colours,
sounds and other elements of perform ance acquire the character of theatrical signs.

