ABOUT TH E P LAY

My play KIS DISHA KI OAR is based on the play ‘Ashaad ka ek din’ of
Mohan Rakesh. In first year, we were discussing about the play ‘Ashaad ka
ek din’ in the class of Modern Indian Drama regarding thematic content,
thought, characters, how far it is relevant to the present society and so on.
During the discussion, many different interpretations came out in different
regards.We could not take one common decision together. For example,my
strong opinion was, Kalidas loves Mallika but time and situation made him
marry another girl. Human mind can change in accordance to time and
situation. I feel, it is true. In ‘Ashaad ka ek din’ — after a long time Kalidas
returns to Mallika’s place to meet her and not with the hope of marrying
her. But some of my classmates disagreed to what I felt.
From that very class discussion I started thinking about human feelings. I
have consciously kept a track of my feelings and emotions as to happens
in different times and situations and noted down in my dairy as to what
happens to my mind and heart as well. I have been observing others too,
very carefully. I tried to find out their inner feelings. I spoke to them about
their feelings what they were in past and what they are in present.
I collected information from people of different disciplines. I tried to
compare my personal experiences with their experiences. Here, I get the
opportunity for taking it as an experiment to get the possible emotion and
feeling that Kalidas might have. Because, in N.S.D. we (students) mostly
come from different corners of India. We live in a particular space,
conditioned by definite circumstances in a specific time. We cannot pass
through and beyond these specific circumstances. We need to interact
with each other in a particular periphery.
In this particular situation, a reaction takes place producing a kind of
emotion as a product, signifying time as catalyst. We cannot move beyond
this reaction. As a result of this scientific fact, I feel, everything happens
according to time and situation.
This might be the destiny of Kalidas in ‘Ashaad ka ek din’ of Mohan
Rakesh. In this regard, I have tried to give clarity to the situation, that

Kalidas might have faced in his life.

