4. Bhopal-Bhopal—Best Child artiste (Jaya 'I‘ripathi) best experimental play,
Certiﬁcate of merit for direction (Parimal Datta) at All India Multilingual short play com.
petition, Allahabad.

Symposia-Sa mina rs -७
Roopkatha has organised various Symposia and Seminars with Sri Rudra Prasad
Sengupta, Arun Mukherjee, Satish Bahadur, Samik Banerjee, Bal Krishan Malviya, Alopi
Verma, Anand Shankar and Habib Tanveer as main speakers.
Exh ibit ion —~

In 1984, Roopkatha organised a theatre exhibition on Drama Movement in Allahabad.
Felicitations—

From time to time Roopkatha Felicitated various theatre activists of India for their
contributions towards Indian Drama movement namely S/Sri Upendra Nath Ask (Allahabad),

Arun Mukerjee (Calcutta), Habib Tanveer

(Delhi), Rudra

Prasad Sengupta (Calcutta),

Late A. C. Banerjee (Allahabad), Smt. Swatilekha Sengupta and Smt. Usha Ganguli (both
Calcutta), Gulbardhan (Bhopal, Shyarnanand Jalan (Calcutta), Manoj Mitra (Calcutta)
Vibhash Chakraberty (Calcutta), Amit Mukhopadhyaya (Calcutta), Padmasri Tijjan Bai
(Bhilai).
Theater Festivals—-

Another remarkable achievement of Roopkatha was the holding of theatre festivals in
Allahabad in the years 1984, 1985, 1986, 1989 &:1990.

In 1984 Festival besides Roopkatha, local teams viz, Allahabad Artistes Association,
I
Campus Theatre and Allahabad sports and cultural association participated.

In 1985 Roopkatha invited Padatik Calcutta to stage “Panchi Aise Aatey Hain” and
“Jan Shatru’ under the direction of Sri Shayamanand Jalan.
In 1986 the drama festival metamorphosed to multilingual from bilingual. Smt.
Shaonli Mitra staged her popular play Nath Boti Anath Bat. Theatre Mirror Manipur
staged ‘Karna’ in Manipuri folk under the direction of Shri W. Naba and Shri Habib
Tanveer participated in the festival with two plays ‘Hirama Ki Amar Kahani’ and ‘Charan
Dass Chor’.

Shri Arun Mukherjee of Chetna Calcutta inaugurated the festival. First theatre
ﬁlm of India ‘Marich Sambad’ was screened which was followed by a lively discussion on the
ﬁlm. Shri Arun Mukherjee, Writer and Director of the play/ﬁlm chaired the discussion
session.

1989 Festival was attended by Ghandhar, Calcutt-, Padamshree'I‘ijjanBai,Bhilai
Meghdoot, Lucknow, Rangakarme, Calcutta, Gokul Art, Varanasi, Roopkatha Allahabad,
Anya Theatre, Calcutta.

In 1990 Drama Festival Roopkatha inVited RangShFi Ballet
(Bhopal) sundaram (cal.
outta) and Padatik (Calcutta).

