T H E PRESS S P E A K 3
1, "The member of the cast gave on impressive Performance”

(Diwan Singh Bajeli in the Economic Times

3 July .1993)

2. Delhi based theatre director Arvind Gaur’s staging of Albert

Camus’ play 'Caligula’ was an awesome task...--~..As far as
acting goes Jaimini in the main rule..».Gajraj Nagar as Helicon
Rashid as Scipion and K. B. Srivastava as Cherea play their parts
convincingly. Selection of Beethoven’s 9th symphony by Sangeeta

Sharma was appropriate”
(Ravi Ranjan in Observer ZSth July, 1993.)
१ 3

3. "The cast ot 'Asmita’ is not an untalented one... …

जा

(Manohar Khuslani in the pioneer l 1 July, 1993)

4.,"The 'Asmita’ crew has brought out all this through their excellent
histrionic &' kills. The play is an actor’s play......The director

has moulded the cast very well."
(Harry Joe in Evening News, 18 June, 1993)

’5. “The enactment of this thought provoking play of Camus
impressed spectators from the design point of view. The director

7 has beautifully blocked the scenes and that is why the elements of
the play emerged in full strenght. He had control on the speed of
of the play till end That is why this performance kept spectators

spellbound for almost two hours. From the actting point of view
Jamini palying caligulais Charater stands at the top .... ..Mainsha’s
sensitive portrayal of Caesonia and K. B. Srivastawas spontaineous
performance as Cherea was impressive.....Gajraj Nagar, Rashid R.

RakeshrgiAnand, and Gauhar’s name are also mentionable. ”
गै
'
( Jagm‘ohan in Hindustan, 16 June 1993 )
6. "This play is a challange for any Director This presentation

of Asmita may not be accepted as an achievement but it will be
considered important as an experiment.”
(Ravindra Tripathi in Jansatta, 16 June, 1993)

7. “The main feature of this presentation is that it is successful not
because of glamour, pomp and show but rather due the excel
lent
histrionics of actors and the maturity of director Arvind
Gaur.”
(Kamalkant is Swatantra Bharat, 20 July 1993)

