The Milan Samity, despite its twentyseven years, is a comparatively young
organisation. And, like similar organisations elsewhere, it had a humble and obscure
beginning. It was born out of the understandable need of the large number of

Bengalis, who had come to Delhi in the wake of the transfer of the Capital from
Calcutta, to have a meeting place of their own and a forum for self-expression. In
course of time, the Milan Samity developed into a focal point for a group of young
men primarily interested in amateur dramatics. Gradually, this unknown unit in
the social life of an expanding metropolis, acquired importance as the premier
theatrical group in Delhi. The theatre-loving Bengalis responded ha
ndsomely, and,
from the early efforts of a few enthusiastic young men, the Milan Samity came
to be
known for its outstanding stage performances. Indeed, even today, some of th
e
older residents of the Capital have nostalgic memories of great performances staged
by the Samity. In recent years the Samity has langushed somewhat ; but that it has
survived all these years is proof of its inherent vitality.

The Milan Samity has not only pioneered amateur dramatics in Delhi, it
has always laboured for every deserving cause. We are justly proud of the fact that
we have never lagged behind when the interests of the nation and the good of the

Bengali community has been involved.

But, quite apart from all this, we have

sought not only to keep Bengali culture alive far away from its fountainhead, we
have also tried to establish a two-way trafﬁc between Delhi and Bengal, which is our
cultural home. It is in pursuit of this objective that we invited the well known
dramatic group of Calcutta - NANDIK - to stage two plays in Delhi last August,
which proved an unqualiﬁed success. It was our proud previlage to bring to Delhi
for the ﬁrst time the doyen of the Bengali stage and screen. Shri Jahar Ganguli, and
such outstanding personalities as Mrs. Ketokee Dutt and; Miss Dipika Das. Once
again, we have the unique honour of Sponsoring the ﬁrst visit to the Capital of some
of the greatest exponents of the dramatic art of Bengal represented by Mahcndra
Gupta. Jahar Ray, Dipak Mukerji, Reba Debi, Bonani Chwdhury and Kabita Ray.
Our old friends, Jahar Ganguli and Mrs. Ketokee Dutt, as well two other stage
personalities, 'I‘hakurdas Mittra and Robin Mazumdar. are once again with us. On
behalf of the Milan Samity and the Bengalis of Delhi, I extend to them a hearty and

cordial welcome. We are conﬁdent that their visit, short though it is, will be an
inspiration to the large number amateur artists in the Capital and will also make us
all feel proud of the great heritage of Bengali.
The Milan Samity is particularly beholden to the Vice-President of India,
Dr. Zakir Husain, for graciously consenting to be present at our inaugural show.

To the members of the NANDIK, particularly to its energetic Secretary, Shri Tripti
Chatterji, and its talented Treasurer, Mrs. Ketokee Dutta, we are grateful for their
c00peration. It is our earnest hope that this second visit of NANDIK will further
cement the bonds that unite us.

Wot“

किं..
President,

,

MILAN SAMI'I‘Y

३3६3- 58न४
Kt»

,

tsp/2 Holy ‘

