U L KA
November 17, 1965.

STORY OF THE PLAY

Nature had not endowed Rajib with good looks. In fact, the world called
him ugly. By sheer hard work he makes his way up in the world and becomes a rich
and prosperous businessman. When he marries, he chooses Kamala for her exquisite
beauty, in the hope that his children would not be ugly. Fate had, however, willed
otherwise ; and when a son is born to Kamala, Rajib ﬁnds to his horror that it is a

hideously ugly, deformed child. Rajib is repelled by the monstrosity, which is his
own son, and pleads with his childhood friend Dr. Surhid, in whose Nursing Home
Kamala is conﬁned, to destroy the child. Dr. Surhid refuses to oblige, and fearing
for the life of the child, removes the newborn babe to Swami Birojananda’s Ashram.
Kamala is told when she regains consciousness that her child had been still-born.
Time marches on. The abandoned child, Arunangshu, grows up oblivious of his
parents and in the belief that he is an orphan. The ugly child grows into manhood,

a ﬁne young man with remarkable talent as a violinist. On his death-bed the Swamiji
tells Arunangshu that he is not an orphan and gives the young man a letter for Dr.

Surhid, who alone knows the mystery of his birth. On the Swamiji’s death, Arunangshu comes to Calcutta. His repulsive looks are a great handicap to him and he is
driven away from every door, until he meets Dr. Surhid and asks him about his
parents. Unwittingly, Dr. Surhid reveals the identity of his father, and Arunangshu
rushes out in eager haste to Rajib’s house. Rajib, repudiates Arunangshu, and
the young man returns to Dr. Surhid,
disillusioned and broken-hearted.
Dr. Surhid takes him into his house.
Rajib has another son—handsome and clever—for Subir is the very opposite

of Arunangshu.
But, Rajib does not know that while outwardly Subir is respectable,
he is thoroughly unprincipled and the associate of anti-social elements. Subir
clandestinely operates a Hotel in partnership with goondas, where all sorts of shady
transactions take place.

Dr. Surhid, who wants his only daughter, Mili, to marry

Subir is also unaware of his true character. Arunangshu, who sees Subir often at Dr.
Surhid’s house, deveIOps affection for his brother, but does not show himself to
Subir .
One day a person brings a letter from Subir to Mili, asking her to come
immediately to the Hotel. From the messenger, Millie discovers that the goonda
associates of Subir have kept him conﬁned in the Hotel and he has been forced to
write the letter in order to entice Mili to the Hotel. Arunangshu hears of the threat
to his brother’s life and rushes out to his help. Informed of the danger to Subir, Dr.

Surhid, Rajib, Kamala and Mili go to the Hotel, only to learn that Arunangshu has
been seriously injured and rushed to Hospital and the goondas arrested.

When they

arrive at the Hospital, Arunangshu is still alive, and when Kamala takes her dying
son into her bosom, he calls out to his mother several times and passes out of the

world.

The poor, wronged, abandoned son at last ﬁnds sanctuary in the bosom of his

mother, for whom his heart had pined all his life.

