क्या

M mbai gets
a new music
festival
SZZCLUS’ ’ J. 1 Folk and
Fusion music buffs can
look forward to a groovy
musical ensemble that
will liven up the city’s
music fest calendar

‘ 1 l l ‘, , ५ ५ ' ५ मृ l
JOANNA L0 BO
। oannalobo®mid- dayco rn
OAWWALIS with soft Rock,Sufi po«
etrywith Punjabi rhythms, Jazz with
Assamese Folk: alteman‘veand EDM
music festivals can wait lridian Folk
Fusion is here to make its marlc
These days. musicians are fusing
traditional Folk tunes with new»age
arrangements and melodies to create an altogether new soundAn upcoming musicfestival. Paddy Fields.
will pay tribute to these musicians
with a two-day event that
will feature the best of
, lndian Folk and hision
music. 'l'he aim is to showcase Folk music frorndifferent
regions and juxtapose it with the
way it is used in Fusion music."
says Shikha Kulltaml, GM,
Events & Exhibitions. Nesco.
the festival's organisers.
it will feature artistes like
former India's Got Talent
contestant Mame Khan,
Bengali artistes Gangadhat and 'nililta and Sufi
qawwall act Chaar Y'aar.
The Colonial Cousins,

the Nooran Sisters.

ilie experiment
“The

idea of Paddy

Fields is to play pure
traditional forms for the

as well; for instance, composers
Salim»Su|aiman will perforrii with

At the festival. the band will perform their interpretations of quin-

Rajasthani Manganiyar rriuSicians.

tessential songs of love. “if 1 aru
doing Rumi. while singing I can
bring in John Lennon and establish

The Noorari Sisters will perform
a blend of traditional and modern
an association between the two."
Punjabi music.
Composer and guitarist Dhruv
Delhi barid Chaar Yaar creates
original compositions using tradi— Ghanekar believes that Fusion
tional Sufi text, but will experiment within Indian music isn't necessary

Grigoryan on the saxophone. MC!
rapper Illa Straight from Philadel~
phia and drummer Andrew Kanga,
among others

but is welcome. “If these experiments are done intelligently and

The first edition will feature three

with songs and poetry across cultures and genres. “There are three

types of Sufi music. One is darghai aesthetically. it's good.“ he says.
music, which happens in the dargah; Ghanekar‘s latest albumVoyage was
the other is what people like me do a musical sojourn blending music
outside dargahs. and the third is from North and West Africa, Jazz.
what's done bythe culture industry. Pop. Assamese Folk and Classic
We are independent. neither from

Rock into a single voice. The festival

"10 thought
regions — Raiasthan (West). Bengal
(North). “We chose Folk acts that
would represent music from these
regionsaptly." says Kulltarni
At a time when the city's calendar

filled with EDM and altemative
dargahs not part of the industry.” will be partof his tour for Voyage. is
“The live project is grooveoriented music festivals. is there a need (or
says singer Madan Gopal Singh.
such a fest? Singh says. “We need
such carnivals A where people come
together and reach out over music "

purist and give a flavour

of contemporary Fusion,” says Kulkarni.
There will be interesting experiments

and more upbeat; it celebrates
Folk music in all its fomis," e
shares. He will be joined by vocalist
Kalpana Parowary, Armenian Artur

C ' October15 and 1६ 5 pm onwards

1.150 onwards
Shikha Kulkarrii, GM. Events & Exhibitions. Nesco

: in wwwibookmyshwcom

