Dear Friends.

For over four hundred years. Tamasha has been the
favourite of Maharashtrian peasant. It is a robust form of
f'olktheatre. When this great tradition of Maharashtra
folktheatre was on its death-bed and on its way in to the
oblivian, my beloved father Late Shri Pandurang Seth Nerale,
under the auspices of his well-known Hanuman Theatre,

Lalbaug, Bombay—l2, tried his level best to give it a new
lease of life. Due to his relentless efforts which often caused
him heavy ﬁnancial losses and landed him in penuary, this
neglected dramatic art of the people of Maharashtra got
recognition and respectability amongst the middle-class
white-collared people; and the Tamasha artistes got ﬁnancial
stability and to further progress. With the admonition and
encouragement of the erstwhile great comedian of the Marathi
stage Late Shri Shankar Ghanekar, I got inspiration to
propogate his rich legacy, though in a modest way, and I
have been striving hard to achieve my cherished goal, under
the auspices of my “Jasraj Theatres” which was also
established with this sole aim of giving ﬁnancial protection
and social respectability to the Tamasha artistes.
With the generous patronage of the Connousiers and
Critics of Maharashtra and India at large. I have been
gaining a small success in this enterprise. Under the banner
of “Jasraj Theatres”, we have presented many a hilarous
Tamashas of which our ‘Gadhavache Lagna’ staged by
the uncrowned king of the Tamasha troupes, Shri Dadu
Indurikar, whose in angural presentation was made at
Sahitya Sangha Mandir, Girgaum. Bombay under the
presidentship of Shri P. R. Behre. Editor. Navshakti on
9th July 1970, got an unprecedented success and popularity.
All the leading news-papers extolled aesthetic beauty. of this
simple and unsophisticated plot full of wit, satire and breezy
humour and histornic talents displayed by the artistes
enacting this folk-drama which was presented without the
usual paraphernalia of magniﬁcient sets and colourful drapery.
The eminent English daily “The Times of India" gave its full—

