throated acclaim in these words “ACCLIMED & PRAISED
BY ALL THE LEADING NEWS-PAPERS OF INDIA......
IT IS A MUST. 'GADHAVACHE LAGNA’ IS TYPICAL
OF THE FANCIFUL HILARITY OF THIS RUSTIC
GENRE." On 22nd September 1970. at Ravindra Natya
Mandir when its “SILVER JUBILEE‘ performance was
staged under the presidentship of Smt. Shirish Pai, the Editor
of 'Maratha’, its glory and .popularity scaled a new penacle
and had captured our capital city, Delhi. The eminent
literateurs. novelists and critics such as Prof. N. S. Phadke,
P. L. Deshpande, Pandit Mahadeo Shastri Joshi, Prof. Damu
Kenkare, Anant Kanekar, Music-director Vasantrao Desai,
Prof. Tahen Abraham, Tapansen Mitra, Shambhu Mitra,
Tripti Mitra and a host of others in all diverse ﬁelds of
activites were the most eloquent in showering the rich

bouquets of praise on ”this drama, which heralded the
triumphant regeneration of the rich tradition of this rustic
f'olk-drama-style. The CENTENARY performance of this
popular f'olk drama was celebrated with a spectacular
grandeur and glory at the Shanmukhananda Hall, Kings Circle.
Bombay, on 12th March ’71 , when Honourable Shri Balasaheb
Desai, Ex. Revenue Minister of Maharashtra State had graced
the occasion with his worthy presence. Our ‘Gadhavache
Lagna’ got the unique honour of being thrice relayed on the
All India Radio and was once screened on the T. V. Our
‘Gadhavache Lagna’ has broken all records of income in
the ﬁled of drama. Out of the proceeds of the performances
of this popular drama, our ‘Jasraj Theatres’ have been able to
given ﬁnancial help to many philonthrophic and social
institutions.

The Sangeet Natak Academy has recently honoured the
grand thespian of the Tamasha-Drama-style Shri Dadu
Indurikar, with their Annual Reward for the best acting.

After his grand professional success of ‘Gadhavache
Lagna’ our ‘Jasraj Theatres’ presented the artistically beautiful amalgum of enterteinment and enlightenment in our
‘Atun Kirtan, Varun Tamasha’, ‘Rajkaran Gele Chulit’.
‘Punvechi Ratra Kajali’ etc. all richly depicting the new
trends of the dramatic art in Marathi language.

Encouraged by' the grand suceess of our ﬁrst enterprise
and undaunted by the occasional ﬁnancial losses and setbacks

