THE AUTHOR
Prof. R. V. .lagirdar entered the literary ﬁeld in Kannada and in English
as the author of a book on Sanskrit drama and a work on linguistics.
He was a professor in the Dharwar College and was actively associated
with the prOgressive dramatic movement during the last war. Lati. r he
joined the Song & Drama
New Delhi for 2
Bangalore. In

years.

Division as

its ﬁrst

organizer and

worked in

He was also producer on the All-India Radio,

1964 he was honoured by the Sangeet Natak Akademi as

a dramatist.
He writes under three names. His plays & novels are written by Srirangu and
his literary criticism appears under Adya Rangacharya or his original
name. He is considered to be an epoch-making writer in Kannada who brought
the various techniques of lbsen and Chekov into his plays. He revolutionised the traditional mythological-musical concept of drama in Kannada
and introduced social problem plays. His satire was in the beginning
mostly based on puns and word play, e.g. taking his cue. from old

"अदृपदृधर्मा"

as an

exception he wrote

“ संपदूधर्मर

His

novels

“ alarm?” and “ प्रकृति और पुरूष" written after Independence show
his free thinking and his growing bitterness against the general lowering
of standards. He thus ﬁnds himself caught in the dilemma of his loyalty
to purisrn and classicism on

the one

hand and on t be other the desirabi-

lity o f democracy and socialism, which in their wake, tend to bring medioa
crity and conformity.
Adya Rangcharya is an interesting phenomenon. Some people call him
the Bernard Shaw of Kannada literature. But he is not a Fabian socialist:
He is anti-establishment
and, so,
modern
and
non-conformist
and also much misunderstood because of his Sanskritic leanings. His
plays reveal a great range of experimentation and innovation. Though age
has set him in person, his plays are still young. He is not much known
outside Kannada because very few translations are available in other
languages and as his wit is basically verbal, much is lost in the acts ol‘
translation. Humour and satire are so much bound with the social milieu
that by the time they leave their speciﬁc regional surroundings, they are
likely to suﬁer the loss of their edge. Yet the play which is being presented
this eyeing has much more universal appeal, as the audience easily recognises the common types rising out of themselves and coming back to
themselves with a stunning eﬁ‘ect, like a boomerang. The stereo type has
become very common. Yet the common man does not realise how
uncommon it is.
~ - P ra b h a k e r M ac h we .

