A NOTE ON THE PLAY
SUNO JANMEJAYA is not the usual conventional play.

As

form is concerned, one might say that it is an innovation.

far as

its

[1 rejects the

accepted structure of the well-made play and establishes its own conven~
tions which need to be defined by the style of production.
The act-division remains purely in order to solve the practical problem of

changing sets and props etc.

Otherwise, there is no real division.

In

spite of the Antarang. Bahirang and Ranrang, the play has a continuous

action from begininning to end, because its main action lies in the argument that goes on without pause between the Neta and Sutradhar.
The four characters---the old man, the
Mamuli Ram-”only serve as an

young man, the young girl and

important

background.

The Sutradhar

reveals three diﬁ‘erent levels of reality to the Neta and incidentally to the
audience, in order to elucidate and strengthen his point. The Neta and
Stttradha r form the audience of the four characters and they in turn are
our audience---a play within a play. This is so constructed as to give us a
feeling of diminishing perspective. in the end this perspective suddenly

vanishes and we feel one with the chararcters on the stage. We realise
that the perspective created शा as an illusion and that in fact we were obserVo
used is

The device

ing only ourselves.

arbitrary and

theatrical, but it

'

brings us back vividly to reality.

The play exists mainly on the level of ideas. It is designed to appeal to
audiences on" the intellectual plane for it is basically argumentative in
nature. But it is by no means of concern only to a narrow circle of intellectuals. The series of arguments which
Neta is again and again

goes on between the Sutradhar and

intercepted by concrete stage action. The drama

in the background highlights the argument going on in the foreground.
The play is signiﬁcan t for it provides an analysis of contemporary society.
The four characters who represent mass attitudes cast light on the current
social conditions in our country, and are effectively used to reveal the

intellectual corruption which has contaminated our society.
However, the real emphasis is on the disillusionment of the Neta. ThrOUgh
this disillusionment the author has attempted to transform the modes of

thought and feeling of the public at large in a not too-distant future.
The play does not oﬁer a solution, nor does it force any dramtised moral.
But it does hold a speciﬁc hope, a hope that the future will hold something, only if we begin to confront reality without‘ hypocrisy or cant.
In this production we have tried to evolve a style within the convention
of this play which clearly

vance.

'

and

forcefully

projects its meaning and rele-

'
«—- M ohan Maharshi.

