After long contemplation it was ﬁnally decided to invite ‘Shouvanik’
of Calcutta. The chief reason for introducing ‘S’ (Shouvanik) to
Delhi audience is that the group has its won style of presenting
plays. They are the pioneer of a new movement in Bengali Drama,
having successfully staged some very difﬁcult experimental plays.
All these plays dealt with complex themes, devoid of superﬁcal
glamour which any professional team will reject out-right. But the
lucid way ‘8’ presented them on the stage was singularly unique,
making the theme easily understandable and yet retaining all the
qualities of a good play. They have a superb and subtle team-work
which is singularly remarkable. In fact their smooth presentation
of. dramas proves that individual brilliance can be out-matched by

team-work—a maxim which ‘J’ (Jajabar) tries to follow in all their
plays. As you all know the dramas ‘S’ will present on this occasion
are (I) Ebang Indrajit (II) Amritasya Putrah, and (III) Gora.
About ‘Ebang Indrajit’ it can be safely said that Badal Sarkar’s
wonderful drama has brought ‘Souvanik’ to the limelight of the

Bengali drama. If the author has given a bold theme to the players,
the players too, in their own turn, have discharged their responsibility
of conveying the message of the play correctly and boldly. In trying

to stage the play ‘8’ has shown a rare courage, for a similar play a
quinquennial ago, would have been thrown to the waste paper basket
by any producer and more so by all professional groups.
Amritasya Putra : as we feel, is perhaps the best drama both in
form and content which shows very convincingly that though man

has made progress through scientiﬁc achievements his instincts
remain as primitive as ever. Perhaps, to a critic, it is not a very
new theme but what is really new is the presentation of the theme.
Being very sure that a play of this kind will ﬁnd favour with all the
theatre lovers of Delhi we have scheduled it on a Sunday so that the
maximum number can attend the show conveniently.
Gora, needs no introduction. Like ‘Raktakarabi’ it is yet
another masterpiece of Tagore which is so very difﬁcult to be

