Kala D arp an
Pioneers of Theatre Movement

CHANDIGARH, the City Beautiful would have been a
city sans cultural life, if Kala Darpan would not have sown
a seed of theatre in this town and watered it with the sweat
and blood of dedication, selfless service, devotion, sincerity
and above all keeping in mind the great traditions of the
region — self respect. That is why a former Governor
of Punjab Sh ri Dharrna Vi'ra once remarked that :
Without Kala Darpan, the City-Beautiful would
be a city without soul.

and effective medium of communication. He has always
been striving for the propagation of human values, culture
and a message of universal love through ~ performing arts.
He established Theatre in Chandigarh way back in 1953
when according to late Giani Gurrnukh Singh Musafir",...
people in this city were living in huts."

After his return from the USA. in 1965, Mr. Dilgir
established the first School of theatre arts of the
region on March

When we talk of .Kala Darpan, we have .to introduce
this great institution through the phiIOSOphy of its founder.
Mr. H . S. DlLGlR, the founder Secretary-General of Kala
Darpan, is perhaps the only Indian today who had had
regular schooling in the U SA in all media of communication and who has been writing also for all the mass
media for more than three decades, He has distinguished
himself as a playwright, screen writer, journalist, sports
commentator, teacher and a stage and screen director of
rare sensitivity.

10,

1965 under ' the name of KALA

DA'RPAN SCHOOL OF THEATRE ARTS. The illustrious
alumni of the institufion have won a nationwide acclaim
by their outstanding contribution to the performing arts.
Mr Ashok Sagar Bhagat (who recently directed a Rural
Theatre Workshop in Punjab, Mr. Surinder Kapil (Film
Director), Miss Vidula (Film Producer, Cine

and

stage

artist), Miss Preet Pratirna (Kathak Dancer), Miss Depinder

Kaur

(Singer)

Mr. Joga Singh,

Mr. Surinder Sharma, Mr

Swaraj Bhushan,

Virendra Gupta, Mr.

Dinesh

Sharma, all had had their primary schooling and training
at Kala Darpan.
He is published author of some dozen books, published
in India and abroad, three of which have won awards from
Sahitya Akademi, Chandigarh and
Punjab.

Language Department,

t pOWerful
For Mr. Dilgir, THEATRE is the mos

The plays and ballets presented by Kala Darpan on
stage and T.V. have won acclaim in more than 10 States of
lndia. Some of the plays have been performed more than a

