About the Artists :
Kumari Vi dula :

A priceless gift of Kala Darpan School of Theatre Arts
to the Indian stage, screen and literature. Vidula has
played a rustic belle, an ultra—modern girl of 80s,an old
haggaed greedy mother-ln-law, the seductive’Kamna’,
poverty stricken old mother, Ram Kali of Haryana, Waj id
All Shah’s Court dancer, Aruna, the wife of Shiv Batalvi, in
various plays, ballets and films which no single artists of

Dinesh Sharma :

School of
An illustrious member of Kala Darpan
art of
Theatre Arts, Dinesh is solely dedicatcd to the
Acting, He has successfully portrayed various characters

in Punjabi ﬁlms Kartar Singh Sarabha and Preeto, as well
as in dramas. His captivating stage mannerism is an envy
of many a professional artist. Now, Dinesh has started
trying his luck as a drama director.

the region has dared to do.
Samuel Gill :

The first lady film producer of the region, Vidula is a
prolific writer in Hindi], English, and Punjabi, A free lance
journalist, she is working as an Hony. Asstt. 2Editor of a
Punjabi illustrated weekly. Late Mr.B.C.Bekal had written a
screenplay of a feature film to be filmed on 4 Vidula.
Today she is the only stage artist, Punjab could rightly
boast of outside the boundries of the state.

A genuine artist who can handle all tools related to
theatre arts with comfort and ease. Samuel has been a
great success on stage, All—India Radio and Television.
He has a passion for performing arts that is why he had to
sacriﬁce his love for sports at the altar of histrionics. To
him theatre means-total development of an individual.
Samuel is a pride

Virendra Gupta :
An artist who handles the dimmer of a stage-light with
the same ease with which he handles the makeup brush
1 or the pen that writes poetry for him. Virendra has acted
in a number of plays in Punjabi, Hindi and Urdu in
Chandigarh and in various other States. He has come up
Kala
as a good actor, poet, makeup and lightlng artist.
ble.
Darpan and Virendra are insepara

possession of Kala Darpan School of

Theatre Arts.
Vijay Kapoor :
An engineer by

profession,

Vijay has

in him the

making of an all-round artist-a poet, stage and All-India
Radio artist. He has been on the stage for a number of
years portraying different characters in Hindi and Punjabi
plays. Also he has been on the A I R in different capacities.

