ALL ABOUT CLASS

Farah Siddiqui. M urnbai—based art consultant. gives us a peak into Sotheby's recent preview of its
forthcoming London auction of Modern & Contemporary South Asian Art, which will take place in October
Mughal masters as well as exquisite
paintings and artworks of the Rajas a

0 whet the appetite of Mumbai's art collectors. Sotheby's
recently held a preview of a
few works from their upcomin: sale. at the Tai Mahal Ho-

ni, Pahari and Company Schools. Gibbs
highlighted few rare examples oi thehis—
torically important collection, which
goes under the hammer alongside the

tel. The auction of Modern and Contem-

saleof Artsof the Islamic World in Lon
don on October 19One of the centerpiec-

porary South Asian Art. which offers

iresh works trom several European col»
lections wrll coincide with Asia Week to
beheld inLondon next month.

es of this sale is the Study of oStork eatinga snail signed by Shaykh Zay'n al-Din,

Dated 1781. it is originally tl'om the lm»
The cover lot is a painting bythe non-

coniormist FN Souza; The Deposition:
Burial of Christ. painted in 1963‘ The
oeuvre of this proliﬁc artist visits the

_A _

, -

मृ

८

-

-

.

:1,

Francis Newton Souza's painting, The Deposition:Burial ofChrist. which was painted In 1963‘

by Ganesti Pyneand
themes of the Catholic Church and its Above:Palntlng
various notions throughout his artistic nght: A painting by Abdur gahrnan Chughtal
life. Consigned irom aprivate collection
in Europe. the poignant painting is an ery of anarchival photograph,in a recent- Contemporary artists included ’1‘ V Sane
ly published book on him. where he is thosh. aninder Reddy, Justin Ponmeny
worthy acquisition,
Another highlight is a luminous paint- standing next to the painting when it was and Raqib Shaw whose fantastical im‘
agery. reﬂecting a cultural hybridity is
ﬁrst exhibited atthe 'l'ai Art Gallery
ing by V S Gaitonde from 1973. originally
A 1969 delicate artwork by Ganesh represented in the sale as well
part of aprominent collectionttom Japan,
An enlightening and informative talk
The restrained and contemplative canvas Pyne, derived it‘om mythology and folkis a ﬁneexample of the artist‘smeticulous lore, which is executed in overlapping by Edward Gibbs—Chairman. Sotheby's
India, Middle East andNorth Africa—on
manipulation of colour. light and space layers of amber. brown and pale blue is
the prestigious Khosrovani-Diba Collecthrough the play oi“ pigments across the another jewel in the collection. other
surface. Yamini Mehta, International prominent modern'artists itemthe sub tion preceeded the preview. Formed over
Head of indian and SouthAsian Artat SO- continent featured were Abdur Rahman four decades. the collection comprises
theby's, spoke excitedly about the discov-

Chughtai. George Keyt and Sadequain.

predominantly lndian miniatures by

pey Album, executed in Calcutta {or
LadyImpey in the late 18th century. The
artwork made its way into the collection
of JacquelineKennedy. whose estate was

sold in a series of sales in New York in
996. marking amilestone momentin the
history of Sotheby‘s.

Mehta.who has been at the forefront
of the rapidchanges in the indian art
market since the last decade. is optimis-

ticabout the sustainablemarket growth.
She observes. "younger collectors are
more eclectic in their tastes Theywould
engage with traditional miniatures as
muchas contemporary art. There are no

boundaries when i t comes t ०
acquisit ions‘ '
Welcome toMumbai. Sotheby's I

/

