Viiay
Te n du ।kar' s
Gidhade and
Sa kh a ram
Binder,
Sayeed Alarn‘s
play Maularra
Azad and
Ram u
Rarn anatha n' 5
Coin rade
Kumbhakarna
are some of
the plays
which have
faced censor
board ire in the
past

to STAGE 0।२
Nor T0 STAGE
1 ﬂame क्व…d irecto r Am 0l Pal ekar has
i moved court against the system of pre1 censorship of theatre in Maharashtra. But
are theatre groups elsewhere really free?

amendments, it was renarried the Maharashtra Rangbhoomi Parinirikshan Mandal orthe Maharashtra State Performance
ScrutinyBoard.
Theatre groups have to submit two cop
ies ofthe script to the Board for clearance
before it can be staged. “The Board acts as
a watchdog, because the kind ofscriptswe
get have elementsthat can upset society.
Ourjob is to avoidthat, ‘ 'says Arun Nalavade, chairman. MaharashtraState Performance Scrutiny Board. ’I‘hecleared
script had to then obtaina performance
Iicerisefrom the Mumbai Police's license
department. This step has been discontinued since March, However, a no-objection
certiﬁcatefrom the localpolice station is
still required. Ifthescriptwriter or
director is unhappy with the Board’s deci—
sion he may request ameeting. It‘no consensus is reached, he may move court.

DOW N TH E YEARS

SHOW
STOPPERS
T . I m pro priety of
language
2.Vulgarity of dress,
dance, movement or
gesture

3. Denig rati o n of a
caste, community or
gender
4. Offensive representation of political
figures
5 . N am ing |iv ing
politicians

३ 6. Words orphrase
likely to excite
. feelingsofseditionor
८ politicaldiscontent
7. Any content that
' may stoke communal
‘ disharmony, cause
riot, breach peace or

' cause religious
disharmony
(As percensorship
and licensing rules in
Mumbai and Delhi)

Poulomi Baneriee
. nou lomi.banerjee @hindustanti mes . corn

n December 1872, the Calcutta
‘ National 'I‘heatrical Society staged
Nil Darpan, a play written by Dinabandhu Mitra, that exposed the
atrocities committedby British
indigo planters on Indian farmers .
Whilethe playreceived glowing
reviews inmost newspapers with
nationalistic leanings, it was expectedly criticised by the British press.
There wasa demand that the play be
banned. Other plays followed, criticising
and making funofthe whiterulers.
Finally, in 1876, came the DramaticPerformances Act, putting restrictionson the
public performance ofplays.
Cut to 2016. Nearly seven decades after
the country' s independencefrom British
rule, actor-director Amol Palekar moved
the Mumbai high court in September, challenging rulesframed underprovisions of
the Bombay PoliceAct, 1951, which make
pre-censorship ofdrama scripts manda‘
toryby the Maharashtra State Performance Scrutiny Board. In hispetition, Palekar said the rules framed under the provisionsofthe Actwere arbitrary and
violated citizens’ fundamental right to
freedomofexpression, guaranteed under
the Constitution . However,on September
26, the stategovernment told the Bombay
high Court that in March this year, the
then commissioner ofpolice had repealed

the rule which required priorscrutiny of
theatre scripts.Palekar has not replied to
H'I"s email requestingan interview.
Repeated calls to advocate Sugandh Desh~
mukh, whois representing him in court ,
also went unanswered. But veteran theatre personality Alyque Padamsee who had
filed anafﬁdavit in support ofPalekar‘s
petitionsaid he is not surprised by the
court proceedings. “It isthe way bureaucracy works,” he says.

WHAT THE LAW SAYS
Censorship oftheatre inMaharashtra
dates back to 1948 when aneed was felt to
have laws to stop the exploitation of
women whoperforated in tamashas. In
1951, the Board for Prior Scrutiny of'I‘amasha came into being. Later, with a few

Ina previous newspaper article, Palekar
givesthe example ofVijay 'I‘endulkar's
play Gidhade or The Vultures. In August
1970, the Board had banned the play clainr
ing that the realisticportrayal ofperverted
socio—familial complications in the play.
was unsuitable for a public performance.
After the producer and the director ofthe
play protested againstthe ban.the play
was finally allowed to be staged aftera few
cuts. In 1974, another Vijay 'I‘endulkar
play, Sakharam Binder. became the target
ofthe moral police.
“The concept ofhaving a censor board
now is absurd because it is a live perform
ance. Thereis bound to be onstage
improvisations and technically even ifone
word is changed from the approved script,
we are breaking the law. As for the law and
order aspect. there is a wholeset ofother
laws to takecare ofit, "says theatre direct»
or-producer Sunil Shanbag. 1112009. Shanbag directed Sex, Morality and Censor
ship, which at its core presented the welldocumented history of Sakharam Binder
and the discomfort it had caused many.
Playwrigh t-dir'ector Ramu Rurnanthan

THE PROCESS OF CENSORSHIP 0F PLAYS IN MAHARASHTRA
I A completedscript is handed over to the Maharashtra State
Performance Scrutiny Board, for clearance. The mandalis a
41-member teammade up ofeminent theatrepersonalities
elected by the cultural affairs department ofthe state
government.
I Two members of the team readthe script
r: ifthe two members differ in their views on clearance, the
script is handedto a third member of the board.
a Ifno consensusis reached, the chairman steps in and a
board meeting is called
a Ifthey reach a decision, the script gets suggested cuts,

and/or an A rating for an 18+ audience.
I: If the scriptwriter/director is unhappy with the changes, he
mayapproach the board fora meeting
n if no consensus is reached, the theatreperson can take the
legal route to clearthe play
a Until March 2016, the cleared script had to then obtain a
performance license fromthe Mumbai Police's license
departrrrent at the Commissioner's ofﬁce. This step does not
have to be followed anymore. But an NOC from the police
stationwithin whose jurisdictionthe venue falls isstill
needed

