T, ‘Drive’, the making of
Must theatre ‘deal’ with real life ? Must theatre tell us about the reality close to us, just outside the stage, just outside the school (for us in
NSD)? Of course, could be the answer, but not in an absolute realistic way. We are not journalists, we don’t exactly work on a
documentary.
So what did we do ? What is ‘Drive’ about ?

The students went to the streets ofDelhi. They had to ﬁnd a ‘partner’. For the female students, this partner had to be a trafﬁc police woman. For
the male students, he had to be an autorickshaw driver. Then, the idea was to get in touch, ask questions, talk, know as much as possible about

their professional lives and their private life. In a respectful way of course. Many stories came out of it, many details, many portraits of real
people. And we also started to know quite a lot about how to work amidst the traffic in Delhi. Costs, dangers, salaries, collegues, hierarchy, but
also philosophy, dreams, regrets and desire.
The second step, for the students, was to build a stage character from the real person. Notjust imitate or exactly play this person, but ﬁnd, from

the real one, a detail, a way of being and then play this newborn character. This character had to be speciﬁc, clear ; s/he has to have a goal, a
desire, a secret, a weakness, something which makes him/her (or breaks him/her!) to exist on stage. Exactly the same way we have to do with a
‘classic’ character who has lines in a play.
The third step was to collaborate with the design students, who were also in the same process from the beginning. All students had to build a

speciﬁc little space for each character, on stage. What does the ‘box’ tell the audience about the charcater ? How does it help to play ?
We were in the streets, we are now on stage. They are not heroes like Hamlet or Miss Julie. But they have the same deep needs, the same desires,

the same wants. They are just like we are, sometimes. They are from the streets of Delhi, but they could do anything else anywhere else. They
may hopefully tell us something about us (us as an audience), not in a social way, but in deeply private and intimate way.
/
. s‘ it

DM, February 2012

I हैं!
v
v

