- 2;;7‘7257/

_

' MIT T I KI. GADI ”
LERI C HC Hair: ‘ IKA
(The littke Clay Cart)

.

. By

.॰

Thsh Sanskrit draw

३८। id (1)

Shudraka नै

in ten acts , has_f¢r its germ an

earlier play CHARU51TTA_by Bhasa

. Its plot (vasta) has

two components : a hikarika and prasangiga , the principal

end the incidental"T_Tﬁ*HEICHCHAKKTIKA , the main.plot
revolves round the love of Charudatta , a munificent Brahnin
now improverished ५ and Vasantasena , a beautiful and rich
cou rtesan हूँ generous to a fault . The sub-plot deals with
the rebellion of Aryaka whose eventual succession to_the
throne will lead to-thé restrotation of Charudatta's‘fortunes

.

This combination of the pblitical and the love intrigyee
adds to the value of the play.
'
३ '
The plot develops in five stages of avasthﬂs : the beginning

the efforts, the possibilityOf success,—the assurance of
success and the attainment of the aim(arambhaiyatnaJ prgptyashgi
niyatapti, and phalagama).
The_episodes that present these
five—stages are linked together by samdhi's or junctures.
l

.

The play opens with a prelude , which is itself
by a nandi

(a benedictory stanza).

intrdduced

Chardutta is in conversaticn

with his friend Maitreya(the viduShaka 0f the play). They are

interrupted by a chasse . Vasantasana is being pursued by
Shakara त the villanous brother - in — law of the king . She

seeks refuge in Chnrudattafs house and, before leaving पृ deposits
her ornaments in his custody.

'

Act two has a series of episodes , some of which shed light
on the life—style of the courtesans and of the other strata.

८

of society in the Ujjayani of these times . Vasantasana confesses
to her maid the love she hears for Chardatta .

In “Act Three

, the burglar , Sharvalika

, an expert in his craft,

steals VaSantasana’s orzaments from Chardutta's house. Charudatta's
wife , aware of the distress the theft might cause Charudatta,
hands over her necklace to make up for the loss of Vasantasana's
ornaments .
In Act Four पृ Sharvilaka is shown handing over the ornaments
to Vasantasena

,

:ithout realising that they are her possessions

He is in love with her slave—serVant Madanika, and the ornaments
are the price he pays to free her .

In Act Six, Vasantasena sees Charudatta's son weeping_because
he has only a mrichchakatika

(a little clay cart ) and she

gives him her ornaments so that he can_buy a gold one " She

is about to jmdn Charuddatta in the Pushpakaranda Garden and
by mistake enters the carriage of Shakara._Aryaka, the rebel,
who has effected an escape from custody , leaps into Charudatta
's
carriage .
.
'

.

