Director’s Note‘“
मरान-त्रि,

he Idiot challenges the world of power, he dissolves power
through understanding and therefore compassion. Dostoevsky
explores the concept ofa truly good man. Can there be one?
We have taken the Idiot of Dostoevsky and posited it with the divine fools
of Indian tradition - the suﬁs, bhaktas, the Bauls, the small heroes who do

big things in their ordinary lives, challenging the norm going beyond the
fences of ‘conformity & normality’, working ceaselessly for truth &
justice, paying a terrible price for their belief in love, deep true love which
has the power to heal, to create spaces offorgiveness and expansion.
We have explored the different kinds of love. The obsessive love of
Roghozin, bordering on hate. The conventional love of Ganya, within the
boundaries ofprejudice and narrow interests and the expansive love ofthe
prince which is imbued with the highest consciousness and awareness.
In the exploration of these kinds of love perhaps can be heard echoes of
what is happening in our country. We are in a twilight zone of terrible
conformity and conservatism packaged in a glib shiny exterior and on the
other hand a booming of consciousness, of protest of the spaces of the
‘insanes’ ofthe world.
We have taken the search for Nastasia Phillipovna as a metaphysical
seeking for the highest form of love, as a journeying of the soul towards
God .
Perhaps this text has evolved from the pain ofwatching this beautiful land,
which contains the deepest and most expansive & accomodative of loves
being destroyed by a deathly love, a love which feeds on violence, on
segregation, on hate and believe me we cannot absolve ourselves by saying

About the Director
Anamika Haksar
Graduated from National School of Drama in 1982 under Shri B V
Karanth. Specialized in Direction at State Institute of Theatrical Arts,

Moscow. Awarded Diploma of Excellence in Theatre Direction. Directed
the first Indo-Soviet theatrical production ‘Reminiscences of Krishna’ in
1988 for the Moscow Ensemble of Plastic Arts. This production was part

ofthe Indo-USSR Festival and was performed at Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta,
Bhopal, Lucknow, 1989. Directed ‘Dakghar’, a highly acclaimed
production with Shri Ram Centre Reperetory; ‘Viy’ an experiment with

Gogol with her group Nirakar; ‘Grahon ki Kahani, Grahon ki Zubani’,
with the Khilona Children’s Reperetory, 1990. Directed ‘Dreams of
Reason’ with Nirakar — 1991, Directed ‘The Great Coat’ with Bhartendu
Natya Academy, the same year. 1993 — Directed ‘Antaryatra‘ based on the

well known Tamil epic Sillapadikararn with Nirakar in collaboration with
painters, musicians & dancers. In 1994 directed “Raj Darpan‘ with the
National School of Drama on the Dramatic Performance Act. in
collaboration with Surnantra Bhanushree & Rati Bartholomew.
Founded Nirakar in 1988, a registered Society which strives to explore a

‘them ’ it is indeed ‘ I ’ a little peep inside may show the shadows ofFascism
lurking within.

new theatre language, combining poetry, metaphor movement and text.

Anarnika Haksar

actors.

Conducted several workshops all over India and in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh
& Pakistan. Collaborated with several film directors to train and prepare

