A Personal Statement :

Arc-lights and flowers flooded the Open—air theatre
of Copenhegen famous Trivoli Gardens on its 32nd
anniversary where distinguished artists from all over the
world had collected to show their best. . .when my name

was announced and my host Ms Euto Ebilstrom ushered
me on to the stage. . .the applause was deafening It was
an honour to perform here and l was ready to give the
perfomance of a life-time in exchange for a thousands
rebirths-what more would an artist want? I was to give
a Bhavai performance before enlightend spectators, my
colleague and artist Kailash Pandya gave an introduction
to Bhavai...and I gave twenty successful performances
in Denmark...each with a memory I can never forget.

As a Young

girl

when । first

came on stage with

both fear and Curiosity, I was taken unawares by the
tremendous response of the spectators. . and । was thinking what was it that । had within me. Today I value

the Spectators of yester years who understood the truth
of the. theatre and with their appreciation the artist was
transfused with energy—the artist, play and artist they all

exuded total joy.
When l am alone, the characters

of

my

various

roles come. alive around me and I wonder how I gave
life to my characters? and then । find an answer from
within myself-that । do not need glycerine tears, । can
enter the soul of a character with complete truth, for me
8 play gives me scope to express

the

human dilemma

in various situations and । have worked with distinguished Directors like Kailash Pandya Mr. J. O. Barnhil a
Director of the Royal American University, Jashvant
Thaker andofcvourse Jai ’Shankar Sundari with whom
l did “Bajirao Mastani". A memorable play I acted in
was 7"Amma", written and directed by Kailash Pandya
… which was based on the Pakistani aggression. The next
day after the performance । was to meet Gandhiji's coworker Kalyanjibhai Mehta who came forward to meet
me, touched my feet and said 'You are Mother India."

। was so deeply touched that even today this incident
brings tears to my eyes. Besides this some of my best
performances are Rani Roopmati, Mastani, Taramati.
Kamini in “Koi

Pan

Ek

Phool

Nu Naam .Bolo To“
(Madhu Rye), Sandhya in Labhshanker Thaker's Pilun
Gulab and Jasma (Madhav Ramanuj). Just like a snake
shed's its skin and takes on a new one । change front
one role to the other, at times I am old, at times young

