.

FOREWORD

In defence of Peace ;jashn - e - Aman .7
Does anyone out there want peace ?
When peace means accepting status quo, when peace means not rebelling
against injustice, when peace is inactive, a mantra repeated ad nauseum to

resolve everyday “ family problems” or ethnic, communal conflicts.
Somewhere people who talk about peace are considered boring, moraslistic
fuddy - duddies or scared of “action”, feminine and non macho, peace niks
( a bit like those irritating ticks on dogs, causing you to continually self scratch). The way Peace has been stereotyped, it seems like the Holy Cow
everyone warships and no one takes care of so peace has come to be, in
the public space and imagination linked with ineffectiveness, non commitment and visible non - movement. 50 why are we talking of peace
now .7 Especially an organisation motivated by the desire to move young
individuals to be “active” social participants. Are the young interested in
“non cool” peace, those Gandhian and Budhist types .7 Peace too needs to
be continually re - interpreted in the mood and language of today. It needs
to be given that edge which it always has had inb every time but has become
a little blunt again. We need to sharpen its edge with creative interaction,
full of spirit and passion.
So it is the nuke that got us together. That biggest terrorist act humanity has
done upon itself. The nuke in our brain, in our heart, in our souls

institutionalises our collective terrorism against existence. It is the only power
which we infantile human ego have - to commit suicide, to end the flow of

life. We cannot create something beautiful like nature so we like immature
little boys throwing stones at dogs, will blow a million little ‘patakhas’ in our
backyards and feel viagarised by the empty fury. It is ultimately our total
and absolute failure in human communication and an acceptance ofthe fact

that we can feel secure only under an atmosphere permeated with threat
and terror - a daily ‘thank you’ prayer to our “ gali ka goonda” politician and
sterile nuclear bomb scientists for eltting us survive that day. Never before
in all exploitative history ofhumankind have so few had such absolute power

over millions of!ives - a death sentence by individualswe cannot trust with a
road contract or fodder for cattle.

What happened to the great dreams ofhuman evolution, and possibility of a
humane civilisation on earth(we’ve always had religious paradise: - then you
really don’t need to worry about life on earth)?

We the young cannot, will not and should not allow the stupid mindless

