attitudes of earlier generations to destroy our visions for the present, and of
the future. We have to find creative, fulﬁlling and celebratory ways to express
our faith in dialogue, consensus and harmony.

Someone once said that if we walk long enough, talk long enough we will find
a way. We need time for that, so that our main idea should be to keep people
awake so that they can keep talking and walking together. Everyone with a
ﬁre of a peace which vibrates, a peace that is perpetually moving, creatively
interacting with all forces of cynicism and hopelessness, peace that has faith
in the possibility of collective celebration- has to pool in their inner resources
to create outer movements.

Peace is not opposite of violence. It stands like normal day to day health of a
body. Violence happens when people give up hope of reaching consensus,
dialogue breaks down, so violence is a failure of peace to work, violence

ensures cease fires not abiding peace. The way to deal with a disease is to
heal the whole body, ifthe process ofhealing is not sensitive and non-dogmatit
one can create more problems- it would be ultimate human stupidity to kill
the body while imagining curing it, so to use any warfare is like amputation of
your own body, while "nuclear warfare is akin to mental death due to overdose
of deterrents. Deterrents, is like calmpose, it solves nothing
The problem with peace-time peace is that it doesn’t feel the urgency to
work all the time, it waits for the danger to emerge and become a full blown
problem. So one needs peace movements which addresses the roots ofconflict
at all times not just as a reaction to some collective mind.

I guess it is clear that “Indian Culture” or any “humane culture” IS not about
threatening to explore a bomb in people’s faces- it’s not about killing any
“other”, it’s about creating dialogue within all 0 “us”.

When Pravah organised the first meeting to share people’s feelings about
the Pokhran blast there was loads ofdespondency and a confusion about 0U!
ability to do anything. But as is India’s way, slowly in its ageless, timeless
fashion people slowly found faith, conviction, imagination and suppor
t
Friends, hopes and passion got together to present a play- Trojan Wome
n. 0
street poster exhibition on the nuclear issue and hopefully an ongoing
program
ofdocumentaries, discussions, music, etc. to generate a dialo
gue on pathways
to a nurturing, peaceful society. Our main motif is the
“question mark”. You

have to answer it for yourself- we have to decide together. Do we
want
jash n-e-Aman .7

Meanwhile we carry on working in defence of peac
e

