re
TROJAN WOMEN - on Greek and Anti war literatu
y and spent
Euripedes (c.480- 406 B C) was born to a middle class famil
t ninety
most of his adult life in Athens and Salamis. Though he wrote abou
teen
plays, he won first prize at the Dionysian festival only four times. Nine
of his plays exist, including Medea.Andromache.The Trojan Women, lphigenia
inTuarus andThe Bacchae. Unlike his predecessors Sophocles and Aeschylus.
his plays are marked by characters with less heroic attributes and a greater
dimension of realism; the gods are often treated sceptically rather than
reverential ly.

The Trojan Women ( or The Troades) was first produced in 4| 5 BC. a
year after the destruction of the community of Melos by Athens, when the
neutral island state was pushed into war - the men massacred and the women
sold into slavery.This action was condemned by a significant minority amongst
the citizenry.There are resonances of this in Euripedes’ play, even as he looks
back to the earlier events atTroy; such awareness informs the consciousness
of the dramatist as he directs the criticism of a militarized society heading
towards self destruction. It is the suffering of the women ofTroy, the realized
characters of Cassandra, the prophetess who sees doom for Greece in the
future, of Hecuba the Queen, who regains her lost stature and dignity, even

as she casts scorn at the gods, and the hapless Andromache who must witness
her child, Hector’s son, taken away to be killed, that gives the play its tragic

depth.
In a time of despoilation and cruel atrocities, following the Greek victory
over the Trojans, what is to be the attitude of the victors - can there be
compassion and forgiveness rather than the impulse to retribution and revenge
? The barbaric killing of innocents, of women and children, the rape of women
at the altar, turn even the gods against the Greeks, so that chastisement is
inevitable. Euripedes’ concern is for those who have lost their all - the Trojan
women. whose goodness is tested to the limits in a time of extreme stress as

