engaged nations or communities. May it be the German holocaust, the war
in the former Yugoslavia. or the conflict between Bosnia and Croatia. mass
rapes and massacres were executed upon women to demoralize their
communities. Mothers, sisters and daughters were raped in front of entire
families and later butchered as humiliatingly as physically and imaginatively
possible. Korean women were used as sex slaves by the Japanese soldiers.
Hindu women used to perform Johar to avoid their rape by the Moghul
armies. In the days of partition, men killed their wornenfolk so that men of
the other community could not rape them. May whatever be the violence
occurring, women are the prime targets because of their comparative
weakness and sex utility. Rape is a “natural bi-product” of war, the analysts
quip often.
ln primitive warfare. women were the first most targets, as they were the
ones who gave birth to the enemy. So if the source was eliminated, no new
generation of the enemy would come up.Among the ancient Greeks, Romans.
and Hebrews. women were often seized as prize, along with the lands and
livestock of the vanquished. The captured women might become wives.
servants. slaves, or concubines. The Trojan War, described in the Iliad.
demonstrated that women could expect rape and enslavement from warfare

Men of a conquered nation traditionally view the rape of “their women" as
the ultimate humiliation, a sexual coup de grace. In fact, by tradition. men
appropriate the rape of “their women” as part of their own male anguish of
defeat. Whatever is the culmination, women are the ones who bear the
brunt of any conflict.
Cultures are ravished, history is extirpated, intellectuals are killed en mass.

children are burnt alive, irreplaceable damage is caused to the infrastructure.
forests are turned to Cinders, environment is plundered, all developments
are pushed back, every progress is undone in the time of war. Normal human

beings who have families back in their own lands turn into walking demons.
because the things they do, are not possible if you perform them as a human.
There is nothing but destruction. And why? Just that some individuals in

