THE ASSAM TRIBUNE, GUWAHATl
y,

( '

sE PT EME

'l

r

त he‘hhtt'n iillillll Ti lllllit', situ»
.ttt‘tl at lit‘tltui'ln. hits no“ luv
\‘Ulllt‘ । popular destination for
the people oi (iuwahzitt. Its
L'Sl‘ is. oi course. its cleanliness. and tilt‘ rather magnificent build»
ings, which echo the South Indian style of
architecture. As bCﬁIS anything that has
its roots in South Illdlil. the process of
worship. too. is 5शा'111111शाआं here. so that
oneurn getsacrth ltuldoos andtimer/trasuris in a hassle-free manner. Besides. in
this city that . so starved of parks. शोख
well-maintamed lawns and flower beds
are also inviting. Devotees. out with fam»
ilies. make the long trip to thisplace from
town. so that they can both worship and
relax iii thegardens. And. ofcourse. take
sclfies with the children.
Otherpopular attractionshere are the

l

Rug/I s tit tht- Mullmr or: )1)p. She (lid not. in
शिरा। . go for tht- t'onimonly hczirtl monsoon
[cu/,1 , such as .lliymi illulhur or Dr’s. and
instead focttsscil on the less frequently
heard Rams of i ll(.' season. And. in fact. it
is extremely difficult to switch from one
Rag/1 to another ifthey are similar in ma- ‘
jor ways. as the ones she performed,
were. The danger is that elements of the
previous Raga wt ll shadow the next one.
something that does not happen if the
kagas that are performed one after the
other are completely different It is a meas—
ure of Mandira Lahiri's conﬁdence and
expertise that she kept the identities ofall
the threeRagas totally distinctive.
She began with a Good Malhar. '
Rim/hi" barnsaliya in jhaptaa! in Madhya Laya. This. she followed with 3 SW _
Malhar. in Mudhya and Dru! 722mm], पृ
Umarglimnarghiraayze. She explored l
the various aspects of the Raga rriore i

thoroughly in this piece. and her voice ।,
ranged freely across the octaves. going दृ

down, at points to the alt matidm [7
terns havebeen carefully calibrated. Itis.
therefore, a ﬁt setting for Shasmya and
devotional music.
Mandira Lahiri was the designated
performer on the evening
I.
of Sunday, August 29 A
Mtra
well»knownShasf1iyaSatt»
gee! artiste who is now based in Kolkata,
Mandira Lahiri spent many years other
childhood in Guwahati. where she
trained in music under her maternal tincle. the highly respected Gum. Pandit
Birendra Kutnar
Phultan. Later; keeping the line ofthe I
musitzl programmes that are held in the
bautiful auditorium across the parking
space fromthe temple. These are held in
the evening of the last Sunday of every
month. Over theyears. manyartistes.both
from the city and from outside the State.
have performed here. Naturally, g’venthe
location of the auditorium. the programmes here are often devotional innature. And since we think ofShastriyu Sangeel. both Hindustani and Carnatic, as an
offering to the Almighty, it is ﬁtting indeed
that manyclassical music programmes are
held here. The stage itself is lxautifully
decorated with wall statues reminiscent
of temple architecture. and the sound sys-

ghamna intact. ‘
to his own guru,

' ‘-

Pandit Chintrioy ‘~ ’ ‘
Lahiri. for fur- ‘

'

over the years. and indeed. she became
part of herguru's household in more
ways than one when she became his
daugh ter-in- | aw.
MandiraIahiri has always
Phuka n had a ﬂexible and melodious
voice. Years of rivuaz have
nowhoned it toa texturedresonance. Hers
isa voicethat has both power andtuneful»
ness. and is capableofattracting even Ute
lay listener; which is anextremely important attribute. In addition. shehas hadaccess to the vast repertoire of herguru’s
compositions, which are beautiful both in
theirlyriwl content andtheir melodic essence. These attach an addeddimension
toher performances.
Keeping in mind the fact that this was
‘ the tail end of the rainy season. Mandira
Lahiri began her programme with three
"Kheyals, in three separate monsoon

ly promise .;’

was honed (.-

"l

Shadaj. She varied her recitals with her
voice modulations. adding power at
points. and softness at others. Hertam: s
and sargams were sure and swift.
The artiste then followed this with a
composition. Barase sughmr ghana भी
wan in Ramdasi Malhar. which is not a
frequently heard Ragaat all. Thesethree
compositions took up 45 minutes, after
which she switched to lighter genres.
She began with anevocative Serum/1b
In sawan saw/an ghar se श्या शांत्सा. She

l३
.
३'
i
‘
J.
।

I;

was successful irt bringing out the emo- ।
tive character ofboth the lyrics and the
melody: This she followed with the pop- f
ulardadm. Boondauajharilodge. dhirey
dhr'rey. Site ended her recital with a
bhajzm sung in the Carnatic style. Slim»man Namyzm. which 'was well appreciated by the audience.
Mandira Lahiri was ably accompanied ,
on thetabla by Prasun Ghoshand harlot»

niurn by Sushanta Choudhury. Some of i
the latter’s sparklingpieces brought spontaneous claps from the audience. too.
को
In this context, one doeswish, though. }
that the programmes arranged at the l
temple are given more publicity. More हूँ
music lovers would surely have gone to i
listen to this rewarding evcni rig of mu
sic by this dedicated artiste. who spent .
her formative years here, if they h d
known about it.
/

