Synopsis
Gﬁtali C‘Barfis the saga ofthe essence ofGCashmirivat, the indomitable Ekashmiri tiliaspora who is blessed with
eternal faith in humanity and human values, iln the stream of'pain and suffering blooms the lotus of‘hope. flu

dfashmiri language, Le7\'aali kbarf.likh'ruhun 5heen) means impossible, that which am never happen. L"lhe play
presents the contemporary realign and establishes that the situation is not totally devoid of‘possibilities, the snow
has not turned black yet. C‘lhis message is conveyed through tluj‘amilies ofépandit GUllankhloo (व्लादृमांग्रा £570 and

७3८ CNiseernddin LDir. who are a part ofthe displaced Qfaslnniris banishedfrom their homeland byforees of
terrorism. Lbut a strong @ond oftrust and hope personified in the protagonist Shaarika works as a sheet

anchor against all odds. Glhe play ends on this very note - snorv has not turned blaek yet. QVCaali Cihtrf‘beeomes
even more germane in the wake of onqing efforts towards peacg‘ul eo-existenee.

about the @laywright
(Weera @Cant, born in (Srinagar, Gﬁwhmir, 1958 was awarded LEMaster's in cf7lindi literaturefrom @am
“I lniversity and 60h. klhf'rom Gama @Willia .‘Tslamia.
dHér published rvork .‘hu‘lude of‘C‘H‘yphen l/t‘olleetion of short stories), Glat'ah kim (novel) 97lnmrarashtriya

LEhr’lahila @ashak 97hr C‘7-(indi {Rttrakaritra (research work), Q‘Ndam C)7ha ‘Uska Qzlasmani (children's
literature), ghamrig and CWEpathya हंट LRang (plays)
~A
रै
>4,
९५
५

GJWeera GKant

She has also edited Weera: Wuhti (आर्ट §adhika (/eolleetion ofseleet eouplets) and ' étrtritiyon ke kSannidhya
(LMein (biography).

त्मा? other prominent plays includes: (Shrooyat'e W Glu UDrishyt‘e (Sum C9-(ua QZlndehhaJ GVyatha
cSatisar, Wegha-Qprushna, 6Bhuwaneshwar - GDar — GBhuwaneshwar and C2Gtma 9C0 (Lid (Jane
GDOl/play). (She has written seriptfor CRadio (ii—CV and \Ballats.
§he has received various prestigious awards like:

°

(first @rize in a C‘thional Coompetition organized by @Winistry ofc‘Health 81
gamin '

°
'

GWelfare, @ovt. of flndiajor writing आस्ति (Script, 1992.
(Seth @ovind '0 as (Samman, 2003 to flhamrigjor lust—published play in (Windi.
QMohan LRakesh §annnan, 2003 (IQ-irst CEPrize in the 6thional level
competition) ofgahitya QCaIa @zrishadyfor the entry (Npathya (Kong: in the

wings, a play in quindi. C’lhis play was staged by Qkhsitg' Cgroup, CWew
CzDelh i. in vBharat (Rang QMahotsav ofCW5GD in QWareh 2004.

its translation in English - .‘7n the wings, has been published in (Edna/a
@kademi's_jonrnal flndian ﬁtrature, €7Way-Qlune, 20011» .

°

Qzlmbika Qprasad GDivya cSmriti @uraskar, 2004 to the novel 6lhtah kim.
@resentlv she is working with हूआ हँमृएँरैक्या as editor CNew @elhi.

V I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I

I I I I_ I - I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ३

. .

I
I
r I
I I
I
I
/ I

एँ I . .

/

V

I-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-IIIIIIII

IIIIIIIIIIIIII

