/

_ .Live audience keeps e on my toes: Anupam
THE VETERAN ACTOR WAS RECENTLY IN’THE CAPITAL TO PER—
FORM IN THE DELHI PREMIERE OF HIS LATEST PLAY AND
SHARES HIS THEATRICAL EXPERIENCESWITH THESTATES/HAN
look for plays, which have very less craft
because it can then adjust with my dates
and shootings. I was shooting with Mr
(Rakesh) Bedi inManali and since both

of us have been-involved in theatre and
the; he_§aid 11.8 mitten a play with
onll three people in the cast. And I loved
the‘vname of the play," he said.

Kher actually wanted his wife Kirron
Kher toiplay alongside but things did not
work out. "I had been wanting to do this
play with Kirron but since she is in poli—
tics, it was very difﬁcult to manage dates. "
The play revolves around Preetam
Kumar Chopra and Hema Roy, who grew
up together in the surroundings and the
bye lanes of Chandni Chowk. They were
in love with each other in theirhigh-school
days. Due to circumstances, they were separated and each thought that they were

letdownby the other. Inthe autumn of their

है

nupam Kher has appeared in several hundred films and many
plays. Mainly working in Bollywood
films, he has also appeared in acclaimed
international films like the 2002 Golden
Globe nominated Bend It Like Beckham; Ang Lee's 2007 Golden Lion winning
Lust and Caution; and David O Russell's
2013 Oscar winning Silver Linings Playbook. But whenever the veteran actor
wants to challenge himself, he turns to
theatre and live performances. "When-

ever I feel that I need to smoothen my
rough edges as an actor, I do live plays
and it helps," he told The Statesman.
The actor was in the Capital to perform in the Delhi premiere of his latest
play, "Mera Woh Matlab Nah i Thha ". "It's
a play that we have launched on my 60th
birthday. I had been wanting to do a new
play for the last two or three years
because my autobiographical play, Kuch
Bhi Ho Sakta Hat, was going on and I wanted another play to be ready. But I always

livés, 35 years later, they meet again to discoVer the truth behind their separation.
"It's a fascinating play. It deals With nostalgia, betrayal, love, laughter;parent-child
relationship, women's empowerment. It
is interesting because the audience can
relate the events on the stage to their personal experiences. It has to relate to them
to have its contemporary appeal. As a student of theatre, I loved Shakespeare but
for me theatre has always been a means
of communicating the present frame of
mind. For me human relationship works
out more than the theatrical part of it. I

do very few plays and this play has that
appeal. It‘s written beautiftu and has a
prettycompetant cast andwe have launched
in on a very lavish and grand scale. But
what really works in favour of the play is
that people identify themselves or some
moments of their lives with the characters on the stage," added Kher.
The actor also told The Statesman that
theatre keeps him on his toes. "Theatre
keeps me alive as an actor because in cinema there is no live audience and thus there
is no such fear because you can always do
a re-take. But live audience keeps me on
my toes. Another interesting thing is that
it helps me meet people ~ it's a great medium of meeting people and communicating with them and understanding them.
I am a people-oriented person ~ a people's
person you can say, I like to talk and understand them. Because I have been trained
in theatre and I am primarily a theatre
actor, it is important to give back What it
has given to me and the only way I can do
so is by doing more and more of theatre
and making it more and more popular
and richer by whatever effort I can put
into it," he added.
"Mera W'oh Matlab Nahi Thha" was
staged at Kamani Auditorium in the
Capital during the weekend. The play features Anupam Kher and Neena Gupta asa
lead actors and is directed by Rakesh Bedi,;
also making a guest appearance SNS’i

