sympathy for a socialized Zionism. Even then
he was essentially passive and politically
unengaged. As a Jew, Kaﬂ<a was isolated from
the German community in Prague, but as a
modern intellectual he was also alienated from
his own Jewish heritage. He was sympathetic
to Czech political and cultural aspirations, but
his identification with German culture kept
even these sympathies subdued. Thus, social
isolation and rootlessness contributed to
Kafka’s lifelong personal unhappiness. Kafka
did, however, become friendly with some
German-Jewish intellectuals and literati in
Prague, and in 1902 he met Max Brod; this

minor literary artist became the most intimate
and

solicitous of Kafka’s

friends, and

eventually he emerged as the promoter,
saviour, and interpreter of Kafka’s writings
and as his most inﬂuential biographer.
The two men became acquainted while Kafka
was indifferently studying law at the
University of Prague. He received his
doctorate in 1906, and in 1907 he took up

regular employment with an insurance
company. The long hours and exacting
requirements of the Assicurazioni Generali,
however, did not permit Kafka to devote

himself to writing. In 1908 he found in Prague a
job in the seminationalized Workers’ Accident
Insurance Institute for the Kingdom of
Bohemia. There he remained until 1917, when

tuberculosis forced him to take intermittent
sick leaves and, finally, to retire (with a

pension) in 1922, about two years before he
died. In his job he was considered tireless and
ambitious; he soon became the right hand of
his boss, and he was esteemed and liked by all

who worked with him.
In fact, generally speaking, Kafka was a

charming, intelligent, and humorous
individual, but he found his routine office job
and the exhaustng double life into which it
forced him (for his nights were frequently
consumed in writing) to be excruciating
torture, and his deeper personal relationships

were neurotically disturbed. The conflicting
inclinations of his complex and ambivalent
personality found expression in his sexual
relationships. Inhibition painfully disturbed
his relations with Felice Bauer, to whom he was
twice engaged before their final rupture in
1917. Later his love for Milena Iesenska Pollak

was also thwarted. His health was poor and
office work exhausted him. In 1917 he was
diagnosed as having tuberculosis, and from
then onward he spent frequent periods in
sanatoriurns.
In 1923 Kafka went to Berlin to escape from his
paternal family and devote himself to writing.
In Berlin he found new hope in the
companionship of a young Jewish socialist,
Dora Dymant, but his stay was cut short by a
decisive deterioration of his health during the
winter of 1924. After a brief final stay in
Prague, where Dora Dymant joined him, he
died in a clinic near Vienna.

