To Create the Cuitural Awareness
' ' ' "ﬂanéir CSinq/i
Culture integrates, it fosters understanding between people, It shows the
way for peaceful

co-existence,

it enhances aesttetic taste, lt enriches the way of

life, it teaches tolerance and secularism, and it provides a strong foundation to the

society. Yes it does all this, but most certainly not in a miraculous fashion. The effect
of culture though positive and definite takes time, It is a very slow process, If any

one thinks that, by a kathakali performance, by ‘iOik play or by a छिछि music evening,
by a Bhangra or Ghoomar, overnight the society can

be changed, national and in

ternational relations become cordial , tolerance and peaceful co-existence are su-

ddenly infused in the minds of the people, I am afraid he is very naive. It takes gen-

erations before it has any impact on the societ‘V- C ilzure h 18 to be integrated With
iife in order to effect the way of Lie. Unfortunately we have frailen in the trap of the

colonial masters who deliberatel, to suit their own selfish purpose, narrowed the
definition of culture to just music, dance, and drama and that also in the shape 0f variety
entertainment put up by schools and ar..ateur organisations in honoar of their VIPQUE’S'

ts. Music, Dance, Drama are just the off-shoots of culture. T he‘ll are the means
of expression of the feelings of people, Culture in the truest sense is the sum total 0f

the minutest actions done by an individual in his daily iife, it is the interaction यां one
individual to the other that makes up society. if this Interaction, therefore, cultured then

the society will be cultured It will be a society, where tolerance. secuiarism. and
peaceful co-existence will be preached and practiced. But it is not so we have unfortunatelv confined ourselves to the narrow meaning of culture and have allowed the

cultural fabric of the society to be torn into shreds. It is but natural that society Without
culture will behave in an uncultured manner,A

highly cultured person, need not be

highly educated, will never think and act in an uncultured manner, in a mar
iner WhiCh

might the feeiings of anyother person, or harm the society or the, nation, And this is the
suit of the uncultured and chaotic conditions that prevail in the country today.

NEED

OF

A

CULTURAL

POLICY:

Culture is a very important aspect of a Nation's life and it should very carefu-

lly planned. Cultural policy must form an integral part of the plan of tha country It a R0
und Table meeting organised by UNESCO 18-22 December 1967. it was generally
agreed that “making people participate in cultural activities does not mean inviting
then to be present as passive spectators at a cultural event, it mean associating then

nicreasingly with cultural action and endeavouring to stimulate their powers of creation.

