it is high time that we define the word culturc and place it in its right'ce‘nmxt aridifor'
mulate a cultural policy. It should be done by a central commitee keeping in mine the

need Of the entire Nation. The culture first of all must be renationalised.

The people

must be made aware bf their cultural heritage and they must feel and behave as
independent people and must walk with their head held high and not bowed in
shame. Then it is most important that culture be decentralised so that it reaches the

masses and thus percolates in the life of the Nation, Unless and un 1i i l a clear cut cult--

and state

ural policy is formulated and all the activities done by the

national

govornment agencies and other cultural organisations, fall into

its framework I am

afraid we will not be able to achieve any thing positive

It will be just like playing

cricket without the wikets. Sporadic activities danot reach the peeple and thus

fail to have anykind of lasting impact They dUHOI form a movement and die a quick
death like a water bubble. Festivals are just show windows When the show is over,
the dressing is taken down and the empty window remains. A sustained and continous
process, deeply rooted in the soil of the countryis needed to achieve a consciousness
and an awareness of culture among the people.

DOUBLE STANDARDS;
One cannot understand the double standards which are today applied to art and
culture, 0n the one hand the government says that culture is the mast important and

the cultural h eritage of the country should be preserved. There is so i आसां] hue an j
cry about the culture, Cultural centres and lntrenati mal festivals are being planned,

but when it comes to planning then culture is at the loWest priority.

A’}é_‘zlll on the national platfrom the leaders keep on r eminding the people about the dangers of infiltration of foreign powers, and guard us .against the perils of freedom, 'But

on the other hand we have left our flanks unguarded and have allowed the enemies to
penetrate into the cultural field, where they are having a field day and by the power of
money are purchasing persons and diverting and defusing the cultural activities, and

making them purposelees and socially irrelevant. National and state Akademies and
prestigious cultural centres have also unfortunately f allen a prey to them.
In the parliament and vidhan sabhas, looting, arson, black market espionage and rape

are debated daily, but not culture. No clue importance is being given to culture. our

elders forget that when individuals become cultured these anti-national and anti social
activities cannot take place.

y
d
el
an
in
nu
t
ge
no
so
es
e
al
ti
ar
vi
al
ti
ur
ac
lt
cu
e
d
th
ge
in
ga
en
e
o
ar
e
h
w
os
Many of th

