F ५

त्र

T he Group
Badungduppa was established in 1998 in the Golapara district of Assam as a result of the
initiative of theatre lovers within the Rabha community. It is the only Rabha tribal theatre
group actively engaged in making contemporary theatre while using their tribalism as a
springboard. Under the artistic leadership of Sukracharjya Rabha the group has produced
12 plays in the last ten years. Some of these are Tikhar, Clmnkoy, Rupalim, Murder um Fundi,
Lot'ita, Mudaiuh Muchi and To' l’aidom. The group has toured and performed their plays in
various districts and cities. It also performed Jyotiprasad Agarwal's Rupalim directed by
Sukracharjya Rabha under the Young Director Scheme of the Sangeet Natak Akademi in
New Delhi in January 2004.

The Director
Sukracharjya Rabha is one of the most active theatre workers of
। Assam. Founder—Director of Badungduppa, a tribal theatre group of
Assam, he has directed several plays, some of them being Rupulim
(Rabha), Mudaiah the Cobbler (Rabha), Hati Aru Fantli (Bodo), Lot'itu

(Nepali) and 'lb'l’uidom. He performed Jyotiprasad Agarwal's
Rupalim under the Young Director Scheme of the Sangeet Natak

Akademi in January 2004. In 2003 he met H. Kanhailal and was
greatly influenced by his theatre. Henceforth their relationship
evolved in the guru’shishya tradition and he was an apprentice under Guru
Kanhailal at Manipur Kalakhetra, lmphal. He now works independently as a
director and tries to promote the cultural heritage ofthe Rabha community as well
as other ethnic groups like the Bodos and (iaros through theatre art.

Director's note
We, the Rabhas, have been listening to this story since for generations, although
we never looked at it from this perspective. Lately the changing political
environment, erosion of human values and globalization have threatened the

socio’cultural identities ofdifferent ethnic groups. Certain groups seem to have
forgotten the relationship between the nation, society and the individual, and
are concerned only with meeting their personal needs.
The question is what are the causes of this turmoil? Some are satisfied with
accepting “external forces" as the root cause while others blame our inherent
weakness. But we still don't have the right answer. Perhaps time will present
the solution. I think the story reflects many social conflicts of today and this
play is its theatrical expression as per my understanding and feelings. I hope
you enjoy it as much as l do.

कीर्ति'
if}: है .'

युद्व Ii

.0

l; i "7

"३१

i

'आजु-3'

