Producer’s Note

This is one of the ever-popular Aldwych farces (one, Rookery Nook is currently
running in London as a musical, Popkiss). It is set in the frivolous ‘twenties' when
the world went gay to try to forget the 1st World War. The action takes place in
upper class houses where butlers and parlourmaids are discreetly aware of the foibles
and fancies of their aristocratic employers.
Ben Travers (still very much alive at 86) says himself “I‘ve always maintained
that farce is the most difficult kind of play to write, to act and to direct". His plays
have been compared to those of Feydeau (which farce hasn‘t ?) but he claims never
to have read Feydeau and even not to have enjoyed the one Feydeau farce he has seen.

He says that his farces are based on familiar types of human-beings, over-emphasized
perhaps, but readily recognizable in every day life.

Such characters have virtually

disappeared since he wrote the play but human nature remains the same—husbands
of the women's lib-era still have an eye for an eyefull and

wives still accept their

attempted infidelities with a certain amount of amused resignation.
Thark — a ‘haunted’ house in Norfolk has been sold to Mrs.

Frush a nouveau-

riche caricature. But is it haunted or isn’t it? — this is what the
household eventually visits Thark to try to discover.

entire Benbow

The cast is headed by Sir Hector Benbow and his nephew Ronny Gamble. Sir
Hector's roving eye has once again entangled him with a seernly young lady (Cherry
Buck). Ronny's attempts to extricate his uncle before Lady Benbow discovers the
truth, only succeed in upsetting his own fiancee, Kitty Stratton who is Sir Hector's
ward. The plot is further complicated by the appearance of Mrs. Frush and her son
Their combined antics, together with those of the much-bullied butler Hook
and the smart young rnaidservant, Warner, lead from one ludicrous situation to
Lionel.

another, with Lady Benbow (“I wasn’t married yesterday”) calmly watching it all.

Why they all end up at Thark and what befalls there has to be seen to be
believed —— it even attracts the press in the shape of Mr. Whittle.
BUT WHO IS JONES THE BUTLER ?

