Director Feels. . . . . . .
The Play ‘EK THA GADHA’ aims chieﬂy to
reflect the contemporary political scene. Through-

out politicians have remained principally clowns.
They have used these clownish antics as a parasol
over their shady activities. Their main aim is to
earn popularity and support by hook or by croock.
They play upon the public emotions by holding
out false promises which in reality are never fulﬁlled. They rarely look into the grievances of the

public. Any sort of cultural, social activity or
calamity is a God sent gift to them to unleash their
torrents on the gullible public. The distressing
fact is that the public has remained a passive
scapegoat and governed by social apathy they
silently bear the exploitations of the politicians.
In this play ‘Navab’ symbolises the present

crop of politicians. ‘Chintaks’ and Darbariesrepresent the Intelligentsia, ‘Nagriks’ are the suffering

students. Some toys were used for this purpose.
The nature of the music is not classical. It is only
an embodiment of various sounds one hears in
daily life. The costumes and sets too were design-

ed by the students.
An exhibition has been organised as well to
involve the students who could not participate in
the play. The exhibition gives a panoramic view

of the entire gamut of the dramatic activity in
which students have participated over the years.

I feel that the theatre can be used as an important media to develop the personality of the
student. The theatre is an integration of ﬁne arts,
literature, music and current matters. This makes
the students more alert, and aware in the appreciation of day to day problems.

class—the common people.

I therefore strongly feel that drama should not
merely be an extra curricular activity but should be

The basic idea in selecting the script was to
have a rough frame on which the structure of the
play could be designed and improvised. Every
rehearsal was a further modiﬁcation toward its ﬁnal
structure. The music was created entirely by the

made an integral part of the curriculum.

B a ns i K a u I

