२३2५

is

“a

उ---,

7

Divinity inhervoice * ‘

The 700th birth anniversary ofMS Subbulakshmi calls for not jUst a celebration, but an
evaluation ofher contribution to Carna tic music and the wider world ofIndian classical
music. Ashwin Krishnamoarthy pays tribute to the immortal ‘MS Amma’
५ हैं,

entenaries, as signiﬁcant as they

are, don’t come bigger or more
important than this.
_ '
Bharat Ratna DrMS Subbulak-

_

shmi’s 100th birth anniversary
on September 16 is occasion to
३रिद्देलेहेत्जा, celebrate not just her achieve-

ments in becoming the greatest torch
bearer for Carnatic music, but also,
more importantly, for her pivotal role
in taking Indian classical music in its
entirety to the world stage.

It won’t really be out of place to imagine the enchanting resonance from

her golden voice as a constant companion alongside our country’s birth and
rise during her active years.
Treading new ground and simultaneously leading the way, MS (as she was
often referred to) was born to a modest,
musical family in Madurai and became
the ﬁrst Indian musician to receive the
Ramon Magsaysay award. way back in
1974. 'I‘o be then honoured with the high-

est civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna, in

Top: MS Subbulakshmi, (Left) Her eight-

1998, becoming the ﬁrst musician to be
in that league at the time, apart from so
many other recognitions in between
and after, makes this remarkable life
story all the more fabled.
The world, it seems, has alwaysbeen
in a state ofsubmission to MS’ unparalleled divinity and soul connection.

foot highstatue atthe Shanmukhananda
hall, Mumbai

host of artists — with no distinction
between Hindustani and Carnatic music and ensuring that dance forms are

She has the distinction of waking up
. millions ofIndians across the globe to

not isolated — grace the stage.
Girija Devi, Aruna Sairam, .Kishori

a new dawn with her enchanting and

Amonkar, VyjayanthimalaandYamini
Krishnamurthy among others, will

which includes h’er rare photographs.
The grand celebration will see a

inspiring Suprabhatam. Her voice remains as young and divine as ever.

Where a fulﬁlled life in music alone
would’ve been astonishing enough, MS

also found acceptance and success in
films. Although she ‘will be known
~ more prominently for her role as
Meera, her courage to be part of an
unconventional social drama Sévasadanam in 1938, which was critically
acclaimed for advocating social re~
forms, cannot be overlooked.

Hers was a life of supreme devotion
and bhakti— to music, to god, her gurus
and her husband. Itwas superiorjust for
the fact that it was simple and full of
heart. Perhaps that’s why she was notas
renowned as a teacher with lots of disci—
ples, as should have been the norm. My
own guru, Prabha Rao, who is one ofMS

Amma’s ardent admirers and a re-

receive the ‘Dr MS Subbulakshmi Centenary Award’. SFA is also known to
always believed that bhavam cannot be felicitate great gurus for their contritaught. It’s One thing to train disciples - butions. This year, it will be the great
on perfecting other complexities of clas- ' ghatam maestro Vikku Vinayakaram,
sical music, but bhavam can only come who has mesmerised the world with
from within, from devotion. You are ei- ' . his majestic performances and has
ther born with it, or you develop it also trained the modern great, known
through self-realisation and practice.
as Ghatam Karthik.
.

nowned music teacherin her own right,

Celebrating a life
On the 16th, she would!have turned 100
years old. Considering the importance
of this milestone, Shanmukhananda

Fine Arts ofMumbai (SFA), in associationwith Sangeet Natak Akademi, will
host a week-long centenary festival of
arts and culture to commemorate her
life works. SFA has released a printed
handbook to accompany the event,

While all of the performances that
have been lined up should be a visual
and aural treat, the icing certainly is
Kanyakumari’s ensemble of 100

violins.
For Indian classical music lovers,
especially the admirers of MS Amma,
if there’s any place to be the coming
' week, it has to be Shanmukhananda
Fine Arts. "
dna.sunday@dnaindia.net; @dna

