K a l a D ar p an
Pioneers of Thea re

Movement

८ ...——-—

CHANDIGARH, the City Beautiful would
have been a city sans cultural life, if Kala
Darpan would not have sown a seed of theatre in this town and watered it with the
sweat and blood of dedication, selfless service,
devotion, sincerity and above all keeping in
mind the great traditions of the region - self
respect. That is why a former Governor of
Punjab Shri Dharma Vira once remarked
that :
Without Kala Darpan. the City Beauful would be a city without soul.

(Film Producer, Cine and stage artist), Miss
Preet Pratima (Kathak Dancer). Miss Depinder
Kaur (Singer), Mr. Joga Singh, Swaraj
Bhushan, Mr. Surinder Sharma, Mr. Virendra
Gupta, Mr. Dinesh Sharma, all had had their
primary schooling and training at Kala
Darpan.
The plays and ballets presented by Kala
Darpan on stage and TV have won acclaim
in more than 10 States of India Some of
the plays have been performed more than a
103 times each. KALA DARPA/V is the only

हूँ institution of Theatre Arts, headed by a
When we talk of Kala Darpan, we have to
introduce this great institution through the
philosophy of Mr. H.S. DILGIR, the founder,
Secretary-General of Kala Darpan. who is
perhaps the only Indian today who had had
regular schooling in the U.S A. in all media of
communication and who has been writing
also for all the mass media for more than
three decades. He has distinguished himself
as a playwright, screen writer, journalist.
sports commentator, teacher and a stage and
screen director of rare sensitivity.
He is a puplished author of some dozen
books, published in India and abroad, three
of which have won awards from

Sahitya

Akaderni, Chandigarh and Language Depart~
ment, Punjab. For Mr. Dilgir, THEATRE is

foreign qualified teacher,
which has
been imparting trainig free of any charges
We have establishad various awards and
trophies, rendered free help and guidance to
academic institutes and army units to encourage the propagation of theatre activities in
the region.
Mr Lal Krishan Advani, former Union
Minister for Infhrrnation and broadcasting
had remarked : Kala Darpan is one of the
few institutions of the country which.
while prowding entertainment,

keeps in

mind high standards of art aswe/l ” So far,
we have presented more than 50 full length
plays, one act plays, and ballets in English,
Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi

The history of Kala Darpan is in fact the
"history
of the development and propagation
communication. He has always been striving
for the propagation of human values, culture of art, culture and literature in this region.
and a message of universal love through
Not in favour of offering formal degrees and
performing arts. He established Theatre in diplomas, believing in the centuries old GuruChandigarh way back in 1953 when accorShishya tradition of the country, Kala Darpan
ding to late Giani Gurmukh Singh Musafir"
has produced a larger number of dedicated
people in this city were living in huts.”
artist-workers tor the cause. Kala Darpan
School of Theatre Arts believes in producing
After his return from the U. S A. in 1965,
talent
of its own and not borrowing or
Mr. Dilgir established the first School of
buying talent.
Everything relating to a
Theatre arts of the region on Marcn 10,
stage performance is taken care of by the
1965 under the name of KALA DARPAN
students and members of Kala Darpan
SCHOOL OF THEATRE ARTS. The illustrithemselves .
ous alumni of the institution have won a
nationwide acclaim by their outstanding
Kala Darpan Academy of letters was
contribution to the performing arts. Mr.
established In 1967. World Urdu ConfeAshok Sagar Bhagat (who recently directed
rence, All India Urdu Conference, honouring
a Rural Theatre Workshop in Punjab) Mr.
eminent litteratures have been its outstandSurinder Kapil (Film Director), Miss Vidula
ing achievements.
the most pawerfuj. and effective medium of

