DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Besmeared with ashes
devine - he is reaching out too
his folds. The search for
geons of Death and Eternal

when a Periah seeks to touch the threshold of a beauty that is
f'ar, for no angel of God steps on the earth to embrace him in
the Ultimate proves to be a leap into the enﬂamed durisleep. The Collossus of society that had destined him an

untouchable even before his birth, now straightens the creases and returns to the governing
monument of unchanging strict rules and restrictions.
No extraordinary efforts are needed to see in Nandan’s plight—the fate of those simple
Harijans‘who aspire to live by the grace of basic human dignity—a dignity that uplifts him
when he moves into the perfumed corridors of a temple, originally sealed for him. For him
the Dancer’s expression of worship—its beauty and viberant rythm—gets identiﬁed with the
Unseen God. But he Fails to understand the God through its Gaurdians — the Brahmins and
the 'I‘hakurs. For them the God's temple is a mint through which they legitimately cash the ir
coins. The Periah looks at the sky and IrllSSt‘S the Earth, smells the Ocean and not the
Gutter. Hence the Trap—the mesh cf dreams, confusion and alienation.
The legendery Nandan manages to reach Chidumberam and attains Moksha in God’s
inﬁnite grace. While depicting his death by a ﬁre lit for the purpose, the playwright not only
sheds the romanticism of the legend but also adds relevance to our immediate environment.
The tale becomes contemporary while still retaining the distance of centuries.
Thus the play, written in a ﬂowing and musical style; poetry and rythm melt into one
another. The temple and the basti breathe in their own spheres of culture, the Classical and
the Folk respectively. This dialectical undercurrent runs throughout and helps to bring out
the embivalence rooted in our living structure. Hence the adaptation of the Tamil legend

into an environment of the North did not seem far fetched an improbable.
To hold the two in a structural unison, a Traditional dramatic form of Uttar Pradesh—
the NAUTANKI (chieﬂy Kanpur Style) has been incorporated in the designing of the
production. This has also been done because it seems that a common man’s story could be
best communicated in the language he is familiar with—and by the language here I mean the
dramatic idiom he identiﬁes himself with. Gone are the days of warriors and heroes. The
common man’s plight and struggle for existance is the universal subject today. The justiﬁcation of any tradition, Iier not only in its richness but also in its eﬁectiveness and relativity
to changing times, social conditions and cultural needs.

The NAUTANKI thrives in music, and is almost Operatic in its roots. But its
uniqueness lies in its very ﬁrm and dramatic grammer. The singing derives its punctuation

