Gulam Dastgir Khan
An M. A. in Sociology he is musician by profession. An approved artist of Born bay Television he tOpped in J.C’s music competition in 1975 and also in HMV’S Ghazal
contest in 1978. He has inherited music in his blood from his father from Sri Gulam
Gaus Khan. He descends from Rampur Shaswan gharana of singers and Musicians like
Hazi Gulam Sabir Khan, Nisar Hus’sain Khan, Haﬁz Ahmad Khan, Gulam Sadiq Khan,

Gulam Akbar Khan and Gulam Mustaf'a Khan.

A talented young man with a sensitive

and mature voice, Gulam Dastgir has knack for experimentation in the ﬁeld of music.
While composing music for theatre, he feels, that he has been able to satisfy his urge for
probing into new vistas of music. His ﬁrst play was Sangun Panchi at Kanpur-many in
between-and now in ‘Katha Nandan Ki’ he has proved his calibre as composer. As professional he has performed at places like Goa, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Lucknow.

Ram Prakash Yerma
With a strong and vibrant voice, Ram Prakash possesses all the delicacies and nuances of Great singing. With an unfathomable range of voice he pierces all the emotions tou
ching the listeners heart. A master of folk singing he inherited raas in his blood—it was
his food, he says. Fond of music from his childhood he got his informal education from
his guru Bhartendu Banwari Lal Sharma, Aligarh and Afzal Hussain Nizami in Kanpur.
With no formal academic degrees, he never wanted to be a professional singer. He is e
Goldsmith by profession. But his grip on nautanki singing is amazing, which he achieved

not while actually being in nautanki but through observation and later he was the leading actor in the nautanki—Madhwa Nal Kamkandla. A reciepient of HMV folk singing
award, 1975, Ram Prakash was one of the founder members of IPTA in Kanpur.

R av i Sha rm a
Ravi Sharma is an energetic free lancer in theatre, having to his credit theatre workshops in cities like Ujjain, Nagda, Dewas, Kota, Lucknow, Kanpur and Delhi. Invited as

a special technical expert for the Kalidas samaroh, 1979 at Ujjain he also directed Bhasa’s
Balcharitam’—adapted into a musical in puppet style for children. He also conducted
several childeren Theatre—produCtion oriented workshops including a three month work-

shOp with the children theatre wing ( f National School of Drama.

without having any

formaltrarning in music, he possesses the sensitivity of a composer. A creative actor him-

self he specialised in direction from the National School of Drama and in short span of
three years he directed plays like—Asadh ka ek din, Adhe Adhure, Hanush, Vikrmaditya
ka Naya Nyayasan, Juloos, Khamosh Adalat Jari Hai, Raja Mange Pasina, Andhon ka
Hathi, Inder ka‘ asan narad ki choti, The Jar, The bear, and many plays for Amritsar
television.
मैं

