a
recited his 12 poems which were later discussed at length by members present. On June 8, 1966
Pradip
Shri
1966
October
In
members.
by
short story by Shri Kankal was listened to and discussed
Pant read his paper on poems of Shri Shyam Vimal and Shri Rajendra Dhasmana and Shri Kankal
initiated the discussion on them. Later both the poets while replying queries from the audience
elaborated their respective standpoints and elucidated problems of contemporary Hindi literature.
Similarly on January 17, 1973, in a largely attended sitting Srnt. Madhuri Mathur presented a paper on
three collections of poems, viz.. Lanqri Kira/7 by Shri Parthasarath i Dabral, Himshi/a P/gh/i by
Shri Uma Shankar Satish, Ajnavi Shahar Men by Shri Devendra Upadhyaya and Natak Jari Hai by
Shri Liladhar Jagoori. Shri Mitra Nand Kukreti initiated the discussion in which, among many others,
Sarvashri Pradip Pant, Prabhati Na tiyal, Taradutt Upadhyaya, Nitya Nand Joshi, Kalika Prasad Kala
took an active part. Shri Rajendra Dhasmana summed up the discussions and concluded the meeting,
convened by himself, On October 20, 1974, Shri Rrja Khugshal read a pap r on the two novels by
Shri Jagdish Chandra Pandey, viz.. Gagas ke Tat Par and Samgya se Paha/e. Shri Poorna Chandra

Bahati in his own way discussed both the novels quite interestingly.

Shri Rajendra Dhasmana, the

moderator, raiSed certain points with regard to the form and contents of the novels and roused
considerable interest among participants in the discussions. A number of person ३ discussed the
novels and asked the author to clarify certain points. Shri Sulekh Chandra Sharma after discussing
the novels in his fabulously rich literary diction and in an objective approach and a style, distinctly of
his own, concluded the discussions.

On December 14, 4975, Shri Kankal read a paper on about fifteen

selected poems of Shri Kanhaiya Lal Dandriyal.

Shri Mitra Nand Kukreti appreciated the style and the

pungent satire of the poems. Shri Rajendra Dhasmana liked the freshness of the expression and held
that the poet was aware of the day-to-day happenings. Shri Val labh Dobhal praised the poems for
their linguistic effects
Others who took part in the diSCUssion included Sarvashri Chandra Vallabh
Kukreti, Suresh Kala and Harish Barthwal. The meeting was coiivened by Shri Kankal.
DONATIONS.

The Sam aj staged two one~act plays, Achharyun k0 Ta/ and Ghar Jawa/‘n, 1' Kirorimal

College Hall in the Univeersity Campus On November 27, 1966.

This function was organized in

response to an appeal by Shri Bhakta tarshan, Shri Manavendra Shah and Srnt. Kamalendumati Shah
to collect funds for building Garhwal Bhavan in Delhi.

The Samaj made a donation of rupees five

hundred on the occasion to Garhwal Hiteshini Sabha.

In the year 1975, the Samaj again made a

donation of rupees five hundred and eleven to Chaundkot Seva Sangh on their appeal to the former for

building a Degree College in Chaubattakhal, Chaundkot. Garhwal. The amount was donated out of a
saving from staging of Rajendra Dhasmana's Garhwali play Jank Jorh on March 16, 1975 at AlFACS
Hall, New. Delhi

SEMINARS.

Among a few Seminars that the Samaj organized during the past, one on the Garhwali
programmes broadcast by All India Radio is worth mentioning. The Seminar, convened by
Shri Kankul, was inaugurated by Shri Bhakta Darshan and presided over by Shri Santosh Narayan

Nautiyal.

Shri Kankal put the problem threadbare and Sarvashri U. S. Rawat, Rajendra Dhasmana,

Kalika Prasad Kala, Ram Prasad Joshi, Kamal Sahityalankar participated in the discussions,

GET-TOGFTHER

Shri Lalit Mohan Thapaliyal elucidated the American way of life to members who

accorded him with hearty receptions twice. Sarvashri Visheshwar Prasad Kabadiyal and Ram prasad
Joshi on their being retired from Government service and U. S Rawat on his being transferred to
Ahmedabad were given warm send offs.

CHILDREN SPORTS DAYS, PICNICS, CTC. Children sports days have been organized by the Samaj
almost every year. It also organized picnics for 3 members many a time. On the Children Sports
Day that took place on November 9, 1975. a crowd of more than two hundred jubilant
young sportsmen

took part in more than twenty-five items. The day was celebrated in 8.8.3. Ground. Sarojini
Nagar
All the players were distributed fruit and nearly sixty players received prizes from
Shri K. D. Joshi. .

