10

This crisis of life and identity is quite involuntary and is
true of the individual and the class as a whole. For, the Pitales

have many ‘failings’ of both feudal and bourgeois cultures but
few of the ‘virtues’ are of either. There is the feudal arrogance of
the Superior Male, the pride in ‘family honour’ (reduced to an
empty phrase mouthed almost in mockery), the naive belief in

black magic and related superstitions, the Violent high-handedness in dealing with servants, the feudal dreams of begetting
male heirs and so on but none of the feelings of a close-knit

family, of ﬁlial love and piety so supposed to be characteristic
of an ideal feudal community. There is the very conscious,

philistine hankering after money, modern material comforts and

‘high-society’ pleasures but none of the singular energy and pur-

posiveness necessary ‘to make good’ and so supposed to be
characteristic of the ideal bourgeoisie. The Pitale brothers cheat,
admittedly and brazenly so, in business. But ‘cheating’, as
commonly understood is neither a precondition to succeed in
modern business, nor a speciﬁcally bourgeois historical trait. In
fact, it is in itself a cause and effect, simultaneously, of insecurity.
This insecurity leads, not infrequently, to a blind alley of
acute existential ‘angst’ and moral degradation, especially when

one has neither the economic strength to manage it nor the
social strength and provocation to hack one’s way through
towards a genuine and workable solution. For, the petit bour-

geoisie, by deﬁnition, is neither rich enough to belong to the
real leisure classes Vt ho can busy their anxiety with money nor
deprived enough, or far-sighth enough, to feel the necessity for
a socially united action for a better world. The petit bourgeoisie
is divided against itself. Every man is on his own. This way of

life causes an existential ‘angst’ that, in its terrible extremity,
often leads to the practice of deceit and eruptions of perverse
violence, even with re3pect to one’s own “near and dear ones”—~

all in the frantic quest for a ‘bctter life’.

