नदृस्म माँहैंष्टान
4.

TWENTY FOUR YEARS OF ।

{55M '

णिपैहूँणी ख्याढदुरवृहुँदुट

i
दं ' tr

PARVA'I‘IYA KALA KENDRA '

३

Parvatiya Kala Kendra was formed in 1968 with a view to promote the folk forms of Uttarkhand comprising the Central Himalayan regions of Kumaon and Garhwal — the folk forms
connected with the rituals, ceremonies, dances and songs, legends, ballads, tales, as also the
traditional Ramlila (the sole threatrically developed form of Uttarkhand). The Kendra began

slowly by adapting the folk dances and songs of this region to the requirements of
contemporary stage, resulting in various choregraphic compositions, which were staged on

different occasion in Delhi and other cities of the country, as well as abroad.

FIRST PHASE
The songs & dance ensemble was the first phase of artistic growth of the Kendra extending
from 1968 to 1980. A programme of about two hours duration were presented which pro—
jected the complete cultural milieu of the region, The Kendra was cautious from the very
beginng to choose such a path, that would help it to avoid pitfalls at both the ends — the pitfall
of the so called pure presentations in the name of authenticity which could only be a crude copy
of the original forms on the one hand, or an individualistically oriented abstract choreography

as would have gone beyond the matrix of prevalent folk forms, on the other. This approach
helped the Kendra to preserve the vitality of the folk forms as also to make them stage-worthy.
This was also necessitated by the fact that the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural needs
of a fast groWing population of Uttrakhand dwelling in a vast metropolis like Delhi and what
is more important, to a new generation seeking its roots in its ethnic culture. In a way this was

an extension of the work started by the Lok Kalakar Sangh in Almora, wayback in the fifties.

SECOND PHASE
Notwithstanding the utility and popularity of such ensemble work which presented the songs
and dance only, the Kendra started feeling a strong urge to build an indigeneous theatre, which
could encompass the entire gamut of the life of the hill people of Kumaon and Garhwal, their
aspiration for a better life, a theatre which could reflect their problems, as also deepen their
aesthetic sensibility and awareness making them aware of their past the present and the future.

Such a theatre, we thought would only emerge out of the various segments of the folklore of
that region, of which the ballads constituted the strongest and the richest source. Beeing the
unwritten records of the life of the people, as lived by them for centuries in the lap of the H imalayas, they seemed to offer a very strong potential for any the atrical venture.
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting the folk ballads of Kumaon 8:

Garhwal to contemporary stage. Rajula - Malushahi was the first attempt of its kind. Shri

