Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely frrniliar with the background culture and folk traditions of
that region, prepared the first script which, however, covered only half of the ballad. The script
was in Kumaoni, and was produced in an operatic form. The first performance of this
production was given in 1980 at Kamani to packed houses.
Encourged by tremendous response we received, we decided to present the full ballad. It was
produced & presented in 1981. This production was a turning point in the life of the Parvatiya
Kala Kendra. It was remarkable in the sense that for first time a production of this dimension
was mounted capturing the essence of the cultural heritage of the people of Uttarkhand. It was
also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod Nagpal and V. M. Badola
performed in the production alongwith many fresh entrants to theatre and another eminent

theatre personality, Shri B .M. Shah directed it. The script, as of earlier, was that of Shri
Brijendra La] and musical score was that of Mohan Upreti. Since this event the Kendra did not
look back. Every year it has taken up a new ballad of the region and given it a dramatic form.
The wide spectrum of the folklores of the region that have been covered are given below in
the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES
1968

Founded as Registered Society.
Uttarkhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.

1969

Repeat performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.

1969

Uttarkhand Folk Songs and Dances, AlFACS Hall. Inaugurated by Late
Srnt. Gandhi.

1969—1971

Repeat Performances at Rashtratpati Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, Gandhi
Darshan, USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditorium, INT Hall, and Doordar—
san .

1971

l. C. C. R. sponsored performances in Sikkim.

1972—1976

Repeat Performances for Delhi—based Uttarkhand people at Ramakrish—
napurarn, Lodhi Colony, Talkatora Stadium, Aiwane—Galib, Red Fort
(Kumaoni Battalion Ill—Regiment), Tin Murti Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, TV
recording for New Year Programme.

Repeat Performances for Uttarkhand people based in Bombay, Jaipur,
Kotdwar, Rishikesh and Moradabad.

1976

Uttarkhan Folk Songs and Dances, Kamani Hall, graced by the then
President of India Late Shri Fakurddin Ali Ahmed on the occasion of
Jawahar Lal Nehru Birthday celebration.

1978

lFTEKAR — A Retrospect, Shridharani Gallery, New Delhi

