RAM!
RAMI is based on a popular song of the Garhwal hills of the Central Himalyan region, known
as ‘ Rami Bauraana’ song. This song is supposed to have been written after the First World War.
It immediately caught the imagination of the people, becoming instantly popular.

The story of the song is very simple. It depicts the sufferings of a young soldier and his newlywed-wife, when the soldier is called upon to join his duties after the war breaks out. Such songs
are common in the folklore of our country, and perhaps in other countries as well. In this song,
the young soldier does not return, even after the War is over. He is made a prisoner, and returns

home after twelve years. Unsure of his credibility as also the credibility and love of his wife Rami,
he teturns to his village in the garb of a rnendicant. He perhaps wants to test Rami’s fidelity.
Therfore he accosts her when she is alone, working in the field. He makes advances to her.
Enraged at his unexpected behaviour, Rami attacks him with her sickle. He runs away, now
confident about her love for him. He also has an old mother at home . He reaches the village
and starts begging for alrns. When people gather around him, he proclaims himself as a great
saint who can predict their past and future. One by one the villagers assemble and show him
his palm. Since he knows every one intimately his predictions are correct. His mother, who
is keen to know about the fate of her son, Mangal Sing, endearingly called ‘Manglu’ by the

village folk, shows he palm to him. He proclaims that Manglu is alive, and couldn’t come home
as he was made a prisoner in war. The Pradhan of the village asks Manglu’s mother to serve
the saint some sweetdish (Kheer) in the bronze plate that was lying at her home. The mother

brings ‘Kheer’ to him. This bronze plate had been given by Mangal Sing to Rami as a gift, and
Rami had preserved this for the day when he would return home. As soon as he touches the
plate, Rami returns home from the fields. She is shocked to see that the whole village is lying
at his feet. She rebukes him in front of the entire village, including her mother—in—law. Her
mother-in-law rebukes Rami for her rude behaviour. In anger Rami tells the entire village about
the evil designs of the rnendicant. At this moment the rnendicant declares that he is not a
Mahatma. He discloses his identity. Everyone is puzzled at this drama. All are happy to see the
reunion .

I was first introduced to this song by Shree Jeet Singh Negi of Dehradun, a folk artist in his own
right. He had prepared a pantomime on this, and also written a play which was staged way
back in Delhi, Bombay and Dehradun. Since we find this subject in our folklore, I thought it
befitting to get it drarnatised. Shri Brijendra Shah, who has also been writing the earlier scripts
staged by the Kendra, wrote the script of this too. In this he has adopted a mixed language,

