७.. WW“ सच

v उ----------------------- ५१ “a

हिंर्दनूँहैंरैड ABOUT us

. कांग

श्यान s,

tension of the “Darpan” family activities to Delhi is an initiation of
signiﬁcance It is, however, difﬁcult to elaborate about “Darparr"’*rbecause-every theatre
worker and lover is conversant with the activities of this institution. andits role in the

present cultural stream.

“Darpan” with branches in several leading cities is by all

means one of the leading theatre groups, yet in organisation, efﬁciency, hard work and

commitment it leaves several others far behind.
The credit for this growth and culmination, must go to Prof. Satyamurthy
who for the past twenty years has with unique dedication led and channelised the
activities of the group. He had made the start with “Ambassadors” that was later
christianed as “Darpan.”

A seed was sown—and now it has grown into a tree whose

shade has nurtured tle talent and creativity of the young.

Some of them have not

reciprocated fully, but the base of the group remained unﬁinched, because of its larger
commitment of fresh wave of promising creativity has been able to emerge in the Hindi
speaking states.

“Darpan” is perphaps the only group that has

attempted to acquaint its

members with the prevalent trends in the theatre, both of the West and the Best.

Also

by conducting workshops in small towns, it has made training possible even for those

who are working in isolation.

With a hand extending help even to minor groups, it is

fulﬁlling a pledge that is inherent in its very formation and existence.
This process has strengthened as the group has sought to revive its activities in the Capital.

The

link thus

formed,

should

bring forth

optimistic results.

“ABHlSHAP” written by Adya Rangachary and directed by Ravi Sharma, is a part of
the venture.

Let me take this opportunity to thank “Darpan”, Kanpur and Prof.

Satyamurthy in particular for help and guidance at every step and occasion.

ON. RA’I‘TAN PAUL
President
DARPAN (Delhi)

चंनंचंनंचंचंछंचंचंअंचंचंचंनंचंचंचंकंकंक्वेंनंचंनंचंचंक्तकंनंचंनंनंनंचंनंचंचंचंचंचंक्तकं

