दैहैंदैदैर्देदैहैं II II II दृदैईदैदैर्देदैदैईदैदैर्देदैदै EI II ट्वेंदैईदैदैहैंदैदैईदैदैईदैदैरेंदैदैईदैदैईदैहैं मुँहँहैंहँदैईदैहैं मुँदैईदैहैंहूँहेंर्द II IiiéI II II IéiiI II Iii?

The Play
Although written long before, it is B.R. Narayan’s recent translation from the
original Kannada has made “ABHISHAP” accessible to the Hindi speaking audience,
this being perhaps the ﬁrst production of the play in this language. It is a play that
explicates the trauna of fear and guilt and the loneliness that a man suffers therein. The
self inﬂicted curse of past misdeeds brings no comfort to a man who awaits the disaster
of being exposed.
That man lives under the garb of a philanthropist, but he had been rcsponsible
for drapping his ofﬁce Superintendent in a buke case. Later on he married his son to
that man’s daughter—and to overcome guilt indulges in benovelence.

And yet, at the

crescendo of honour, he is trapped by the exposure of the inhumanity of a past relationship, when the past avenges itself by a death at his doorstep. And the shadow of fear
grooms broader.
The play has been written in a simple, ﬂowing rhythm, but its meaning is
condensed with underﬂying pathos and sharp introspection. It is a play that minutely
absernes relationships—the master with the servant; the father with the son and

daughter in law and he is aware, that at the moment of exposure the son and his wife
will not share his burden.

That misfortune is only for him.

But then, doesn’t one

suffer in guilt? Must two undergo punishment for a single mistake? Is the only
repentance that which outbursts as a confession? The simmering fear of exposure
makes the man still more defensive, as he attempts to :shift the burden of his guilt on
Venkappa, the loyal servant.
The drama begins on a slow, languid evening and is concluded on the following

day. However, realism fades away as the subconscious asserts itSelf. It becomes a
realisation in space, when in Act II time freezes; and a fear is analysed. Rai Sahib
lives a moment in darkness-but the depth of darkness is an insight into his cold blooded
relationships and subjective horror at the same time.

दैहैंदैदैईदैदैहैंदैदैहैंदै३ दृदैरेंदैदैहैंदैदैईदैदैईदैदैर्देदैदृ दृदैईदैदैईदैदै दृदैईदैर्द II II II हैंदैईदैदै EI II II II हैंदैईदैदै II II II II हैंदैर्देदैदैईदैदृ दृदैईदैदैईदै

