PLAYWRIGHT
George Bernard Shaw
( 1 8 5 6… 1 95 0)
George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), born in Dublin was the son of a civil servant. His
education was irregular, due to his dislike for any organized training. After working at
an estate agent's office for a while, he moved to London as a young man (1876),
where he established himself as a leading music and theatre critic in the eighties and
nineties and became a prominent member of the Fabian Society, for which he scribed
many pamphlets. His literary career began as a novelist. He was a fervent advocate of
the New Theatre of Ibsen (The Quintessence of Ibsenism, 1891). He decided to write
plays in order to illustrate his criticism of the English stage. His earliest dramas were
called appropriately plays pleasant and unpleasant (1898). Among these, Widower's
Houses and Mrs. Warren's Profession savagely attack social hypocrisy, while in plays
such as Arms and the Man and The Man of Destiny the criticism is less fierce. Shaw's
radical rationalism, his utter disregard for conventions, keen dialectic interest and verbal

wit often turns the stage into a forum of ideas, and nowhere more openly than in the
famous discourses on the Life Force in Don Juan in Hell, the third act of the
dramatization of woman's love chase of man, Man and Superman (1903).
In the plays of his later period discussion sometimes drowns the drama, as in Back to
Methuselah (1921), although in the same period he worked on his masterpiece Saint
Joan (1923), in which he rewrites the well-known story of the French maiden and
extends it from the Middle Ages to the present.
Other important plays by Shaw are Caesar and Cleopatra (1901), a historical play
alluding to modern times, and Androeles and the Lion (1912), in which he exercised

a kind of retrospective history and from the Modern Movements drew deductions for
the Christian Era. In Major Barbara (1905), one of Shaw's most successful (discussion)
plays, audience attention is held by the power of the witty arguments that man can
achieve aesthetic salvation only through political activity not as an individual. The
Doctor's Dilemma (1906), facetiously classified as a tragedy by Shaw, is really directed
at the medical profession. Candida (1898), with social attitudes toward sex relations as
objects of his satire, and Pygmalion (1912), a witty study of phonetics as well as a clever
treatment of middle-class morality and class distinction, proved Shaw's greatest successes
on stage. The combination of dramatic, comic and social corrective gives Shaw's
comedies their special ﬂavour.

Shaw's complete works appeared in thirty-six volumes between 1930 and 1950 the year of
his death.

