DIRECTOR
Raj B isaria
Padam Shree - A Proﬁle
Actor, Director, Theatre Educationist

As initiator of a modern sensibility and approach to theatre, Raj Bisaria ensured for the ﬁrst
time that the dramatic and performing arts conform to a new professional discipline and
communicate through a new aesthetic rnediurnfl‘he pioneering effort brought in focus his
intensity of commitment and involvement, which in the mid 60's led to the establishment of a
broad ranging, semi—professional theatre movement in Uttar Pradesh.

The ﬁrst initiative was taken by his University Theatre Group formed in 1962. Four years later,
following a successful run of the “University Productions” Raj Bisaria founded the Theatre
Arts Workshop (TAW) the premier training group of its kind in the State.
TAW spotlighted the emergence of a remarkable sophistication in the dramatic arts which

gained a new impacts and created an unusual impact on the audience despite all its limitations
of response. The dynamism of TAW productions, their stylistic experimentation and directional
subtlety were never in doubt on either side of the proscenium.
TAW mounted on stage the very best of European and American Playwrights, its repertoire
including an impressive selection from Shakespeare, Shaw, Sartre, lonesco, Fry, Arthur, Miller,

Tennessee Williams, Noel Coward, Ronald Duncan, Rittigan andas a theatre educator as early
as 1973, Raj Bisaria suggested to the State Government that a semi-professional repertory

theatre 1974 the State Government requested him to evolve a scheme for establishing a drama
school, which function as a full ﬂedged academy of dramatic arts.
The Bhartendu Natya Akaderni: Bhartendu Academy of Dramatic Arts, when it was founded

in 1975 (with Raj Bisaria as its founder director) because the ﬁrst of its kind in the large Hindi
belt of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Also in 1975, the ﬁrst ever theatre

training workshop in Uttar Pradesh was held for the U. P. Sangeet Natak Akaderni and the
Sangeet Natak Akaderni, Delhi, under his direction.

At BASA, Raj Bisaria, from 1975 to 1986, shouldered the total responsibility of teaching
acting and direction (aspects both theoretical and practical) western drama, from Greeks to

modern times, theatre criticism and adjudication and adjudication and aesthetics of light, sound
and set designs. He worked again as, Director of the Academy, as well as the Director of its

Repertory Company from 1989 to 1992 and again from 1995 to 1997.
As irnpresario Raj Bisaria's widening interests has led to the introduction of lrshad Panjatan’s
excellent mime in 1967 presentation of the Murray Louis Dance Company of USA in 1968.
This boardening activity and involvement with the performing arts also saw classical dance by
Sonal Mansingh, in 1970, the debut of Om Shivpuri's “Dishanter” group in 1972, a painting
exhibition of R. S. Bisth's, miniatures and, Richard Schechner's modern American theatre, both

