in 1976 and the Annapolis Brass Quintet in 1981-all arranged at his initiative all for the ﬁrst
time in the State.
As theatre-actor—director Raj Bisaria took head roles in several of TAW English productions.
But also noticeable in 1972 was a major shift in his emphasis from modern Euro-American
productions to plays in Hindi of modem Indian playwright: Mohan Rakesh, Badal Sircar, Adya
Rangacharya, Dharamvir Bharti, Shesh and Mohit Chatterjee. Obviously the efforts at this stage
who to promote a serious bilingual theatre.
As stage and light designer his special talent was always been pronounced, in the use of colours
and perception of its psychology, which helped in crating a new spectrum of innovative
theoretical images and which moved from realistic to the symbolic and at times poetic. Theatre
Training for Raj Bisaria besides efforts on his own included aninvitation by the British Council,
London to the British Drama League (Later British Theatre Association) as a producer,

drama-instructor, and adjudicator, in 1960.
He took up the examination of the Education Board of the United Kingdom, and was awarded
the Associate Drama Board (UK) Diploma in 1969. In 1986, the Indian Council for Cultural
Relations sponsored his visit as a theatre director and expert to USSR, German Democratic
Republic Czechoslovakia, and Hungary. Again he visited U.K. in 1993 as theatre director

and expert.
As a leading theatre personality Raj Bisaria who also extensively interviewed at the Lucknow,
Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai T. V. Stations and UGC Hyderabad. On both the T. V. and Radio, Raj
Bisaria left his impress as an actor, moderator cum interviewer, both in India and abroad.

As ﬁlm & T. V. actor Raj Bisaria was associated as a dialogue director in Shyarn Bengal‘s
“Junoon” and as an actor of Muzaffar Ali's “Aagman”, Govind Nihalani “Aaghat” etc. and
Ret Par Likhe Naam (written by Kamleshwar). He acted regularly in _T. V. plays since 1978
he is rated as a top grade actor of the Doordarshan.
Members of Cultural Bodies from I 963 to I 995 on different occasions:
U. P. Government Nominee to U. P. Sangeet Natak Akademi: Member; Executive Committee and General
Council for several terms, off and on. , Consultant, Central Sangeet Natak Akademi, Government Nominee
to Rastriya Kathak Sansthan, Lucknow, Governing Board North Central Zone, Cultural Centre, Allahabad,
U. P. , Member, Association International Des. Crtiguees De Theatre Paris/London.
Member of Film Bodies:
Member ofJurv, National Film Award o/‘India, 1986, Member ofJuiy, National Films Awards ofIndia, 1991,
Member, Central Board ofFilm Certiﬁcation. India, 7997.
Awards:
(i) Sangeet Natak A kademi, Uttar Pradesh Awardfor Direction 1988. Award declined. (ii) Padam Shree- I 990
for Contribution to Modern Indian Theatre, theﬁrst theatre person from Uttar Pradesh. (iii) Ya s h B h o rt i —
Lifetime Achievement Award I 994 by the Government of Uttar Pradesh. (iv) U. P. Raina 1996— All India
Conference of'lntellectuals for Theatre Direction and Contribution to Media. (v)D i s t i n g u is h S e r v i c e
Honour— N. GO. Helpage India-I997. (vi)Fun- Vibhushan—N. 6.0., Bhartiya Funkar Society, U. 19.51998.
(vii)Bharat Natya Akademi-Lifetime awardee in recognition of his work-2004, as its founder director.
(Viii)Sangeet Natak Akaderni Award in Direction-2004.

