Delhi Natya

Sangh an organisation primarily devoted to promotion of

theatre activity was established in 1950 by a small band of theatre enthusiasts.
They had in view two distinct roles for the Sangh——co-ordination of theatre activity in the capital aﬂiliating to it all the groups working in the ﬁeld and to estabAcademy for imparting instruction and training in various branches of

lish an

drama to

youngmen and women.

The inauguration of Delhi Natya Sangh was

performed by the the late President Dr. Rajendra Prasad on lst September, 1950,
Dr. B. V. Keskar was the ﬁrst President of the Sangh.

The Sangh has StOOd UP to the expectation of its founders. Since 1951
almost all important theatre groups of the capital have sought afﬁliation with the
Sangh. The number of these groups, pertaining to various languages like English,
Hindi, Punjabi,

Bengali and

Telugu, stands

presently at 45,

To integrate their

activities the Sangh has been organising, in the past, Competitions and Festivals
of plays every year.

Over 200 performances of various plays were given under

the auspices of the Sangh in its Drama Competitions and Festivals during the
ﬁrst 15 years of its life. Prizes have been awarded for the best production, best
actor, best stagecraft, etc. In these Competitions and Festivals apart from regional
an
language theatre groups, like U. K. HIGH Commission ADC. and Americ

Theatre Association have also taken part. Thus the Sangh became the rallying
point for active theatre groups representing various language.
Apart from the above, the Sangh has been sponsoring outside programmes
independently and in collaboration with other organisations, such as :—
——Railway Cententary Cultural Festivals.
—-National Drama Festival. In this festival theatre groups from all over India

participated and it was biggest venture sponsored by the Sangh.
—Miss. Martha Grahm’s performances.
— Song Recital by Talat Mahmud.
——'I‘heatrical shows by the Weyne State University Theatre Group from USA.
———Musical Evening—Late Shri Hussan Lal.
—Atit Vertman by Natya Institute of Choreography.
-—DNShosted 19th Annual Convension of BNS in Delhi.
Delhi Natya Sangh in collaboration with Municipal Corporation Delhi
organised A Festival of Ten Plays & Ballets at Nagar Nigam Rangshala in Feb——

March ’73.
Delhi Natya Sangh represented and secured from Delhi Admn. Exempamateur theatre
tion from payment of entertainment tax on performances by
groups.

Delhi Natya Sangh sponsored Nataraj Academy’s play ‘Diare’.

