A MASTER OF HISTRIONICS......MEENA KAPUR
It is an admitted fact that Meena has
been committed to the theatre since her teens.
Although every new role in a play poses a
challenge to her yet it is an exciting experiment for her. She acts with consumate skill
and is amenable to variegated roles. She
portrays each role realistically and impeccably from a young girl to an old woman of 110
years be it a comedy or tragedy.
Like others who have devoted their
lives to promote theatre, Meena does not
think that theatre can exist purely by being

an ’intellectual exercise’. V Agreeing with a
drama critic SHE too feels that ‘a play should
be a rewarding aesthetic experience.
About her role in the theatre as a

director, she says ‘although I have started
directing the plays, yet I feel acting is the

thing that I really love’.
Most of the
‘ Drama Directors’ make a hash of the plays. She quotes a drama critic ——if a
drama is meaningful and relevant in the hands of a talented director it scintilates
revealing new facets.

If, on the other hand, director takes a stupid play with a

hope to make it stage worthy by pitching in all the theatre tricks he has learnt,
he delivers a pretentious bag.

As a playwright,

she presented her ﬁrst full length play—VASNA.

She

does not like to feed the audience with a diet of obscenity and abusive language
unless it is relevant not only to the plot of the play but also to the existing social
context.

With an extensive witnessing of dramas in various languages Meena Kapur ~
is

capable of

discussing and debating about the ﬁnest shades of a particular
in a play.
situation
character or a
Although she has acted in a number of plays since 1952, her roles in plays

like SAMAJ, IK CHADDER MAILI, YEH ISHQ ISHQ HAI ISHQ, CHANDERM UKHI, PATI PA'I‘NI, AAG KIYA HOGA, CHAT'I‘AN, CHHAMMAK—
CHHALLO, and her roles in prize winning plays like MODERN BIWI, CHITHI,
SER NU SAWA SER at Delhi. Allahabad and Simla competitions, have left a
a deep imprint on the minds of the audience. In addition she has acted in almost

all the classics of a Agha Hashr Kashmiri and Nirmala of Munshi Prem Chand.

The latest feather in her cap is winning of Gold Medal—best actress prize
for her acting in ‘KALAM SE ANDHERA - KALAM SE UJALA’, in Drama

Competition at Dehra Dun, held in February, ’76.
Cultural Secretary

॰

The Seven Stars New Delhi

