Children’s Theatre
A little work that has been done towards bringing Children’s Threatre to the focus
is a recent development. Though in adult theatre a momentum, has been generated in
search of new forms and folk roots of our culture but it is unfortunate that little care has
been taken to develop theatre for our own roots i.e., the children. In such a
condition the question naturally comes to mind, is there any use of children theatre in
our life ?

I had an opportunity to ask Shyam Benegal about this and also I wanted to
know from him the real work that has been done in our country in this area. Shyam
gave much stress for the development of children ﬁlm and theatre as he thought they are
the basic needs for the child’s mental health. But he felt sorry as he could not recount
much good work in the ﬁeld. He observed that whatever had been done so far in the
name of children really has become adult entertainment because of lack of knowledge to
use these mediums for the children. The observations made by Ashit Moitra, Director,
Children’s Little Theatre, Calcutta regarding the subject was also important.

He pointed

out that continuity is a problem, as after the initial heat is over nobody wants to share
the responsibility of running the show. And availability of trained teachers for the
purpose is also a perennial problem. As the proposition is costly and inﬂow of funds
are limited so it can only be run with the involvement of the State, which at the present
stage is not encouraging.

Mr. Moitra also observed that recently the school load on the

children had increased by manyfold and other attractions have also increased in a
proportion to keep the childern pre-occupied so much that they hardly ﬁnd any
time to concentrate on extra curricular training. Due to the present socio-economic
condition the parents also do not take much interest in their children’s involvement in
such programmes.

These are some of the practical problems that come in the way of propagation of
children’s theatre, without solving which any amount

of work for the cause would be

fruitless. Because it has been seen that those who are interested to work in the ﬁeld always
take themselves off from the project facing such magnitude of problems. And then
sending their own children to nearby school of Dance or Music and console themselves
that they have done enough social duties in this direction.

But is it the right attitude? Can the void of children’s theatre be fulﬁlled by
giving our children a lesson or two in dance or music alone ? Can we build humane
personality in relation to the latest progress in culture and civilisation without
motivating
our children through Children Theatre ? Let us see.

If we look at the living world we shall ﬁnd that evolution of life has been
marked
by the gradual emergence of higher intelligence and consciousn
ess.

And also the period

ofchildhood has become prolonged in man as compared to lower animals,
indicating

