development
that the intellectual species w0uld take much more time for their gradual
incomplete
into adulthood than lower animals. Human child at birth is dependent and
of
childhood
the
as
marked
years
requires about 18 years for its full bloom. These 18
human
he
Ast
Span.
life
the
throughout
period
man is very ditﬁcult and important
environchild has to move about in the company of adults and in a set pattern of social
tion,
ment throughout this period he has to encounter situations, behaviours, communica
period
this
in
So
constitution.
psychic
and
every now and then alien to his physical
only the conﬂict that arise; within him, due to the collision of the force of growth and
adaptability, makes him jittery and secluded. And to avoid the situation he always
seeks refuge in the world of fantasy, adventure, naughtiness which surfaces as behavioural
problem in children.

In our existing social pattern these problems of childhood are much repressed than
helped because of the ignorance of children’s behaviour of the parents. The parents
always want that their child should condition himself with the surroundings instantly
without considering his incomplete structure. And this is the point where the behavioural
problem in the child generates.
The remarks of the parents regarding their children’s behaviour often goes like
these—“She is so shy, I am ashamed”, “He is so dependent on us, it is a problem”, “My
God, if you see his tantrums”, “Oh hell, what a nagging child she is”, “We have become
unsocial because of his behaviour only”, “He is so talkative and .... .....” and so on,
and so on.
But these remarks about the children on the part of the adults most of the times are
unjustiﬁed if we look at the situation from the child’s own angle, from the angle where the

tender, incomplete child’s mind with full potential to adopt and grow up gradually is
hard-pressed due to adult’s interference.
The human child carries inbuilt potentiality to grow up to manhood, acquire
personality, absorb culture and civilisation, show aptitude towards service and self-sacriﬁce
provided he is given sympathetic, free environment and imaginative programmes which
satisfy his ever-growing mind. He should be put to situations and should be allowed to
participate in programmes where he could feel himself important. He should be helped
to show his creative work so that he becomes conﬁdent of himself. This is the time when
his small muscles are to be exposed to tender stress and his mind is to be exposed to his
own environment and culture slowly so that when he grows up he shall belong to it,
protect it and develop it further.
So we must now think seriously to provide such opportunities to our children for
a healthy growth and give the idea of fulﬁlling the special needs of the children’s
utmost importance, as

the children,

our future

generation,

are

the

real

assets

of

the nation.
When we think of creating such an enVironment for our children naturally Children’s
Theatre comes to our mind. Because a children’s theatre equipped according to the
SpeCial needs of the children can really act as a nurse-maid for a growing child in his

