academic life and can be termed as the workshop for future citizen-building.
discussion of the following will convince this beyond doubt :

An elaborate

(i) In children theatre the child will ﬁnd a free atmosphere other than his normal
surroundings.
(ii) Instead of growing up in undesirable atmosphere with the servants or other-

wise he will. ﬁnd a real home under proper guidance.
(iii) He will be surrounded by children of same taste and temperament.
(iv) Fellow-feeling and brotherhood will grow in the child and the question of caste

and creed will disappear from his mind.
(v) His physique will improve as physical training is a part of modern theatre and
mind will start appreciating literature.
(vi) Theatre is a combinations of many art forms. So the child will have a multidirectional growth in art and culture.
(vii) The child will come to know about his national heritage in art and
culture.
(viii) Through enactment academic lessons can be made easy and as theatre is a
live art and its impact on the child’s mind will be lasting.
(ix) The child will learn to Work in groups.
(x) His taste will develop hence he will resist emergence of bad blood in
culture.
Thakur Ramkrishna once said that what thousand lectures cannot do a single theatrical performance can do that. So the time has come now to act according to the
Guru to stop lecturing and to get prepared to get our children a theatre of his own. And

for this the points to ponder at the moment are :
(i) Children’s Theatre should be recognised as
nation-build ing.

an

important

instrument

in

(ii) Theatre should be introduced to school level.
(iii) Government should come forward to give children theatre shape of a national
movement ,
(iv) All existing children’s theatre should get all possible help from the
government.
(v) Travelling by children treatre for performance should be made free.
(vi) Writers for children should be rewarded.

(vii) Festival for children theatre should be organised at State level and national
level.
(viii) [Children’s theatre should be opened in all major cities.
(ix) Archive for children’s theatre should be opened.
(x) Batch of children should be sent in different countries to learn all about

children’s theatre.
PA RIM AL D ATTA

