Transatng a draam
With his feet ﬁrmly planted on the soil of a nation just born a man gazed out into

the blue yonder...looking at the vision of a country striving fOr self—reliance for the
betterment of the peOple and sharing her achievement with other nations. .
The dreamer was Jawaharlal Nehru. And his dream is coming true.

We too at

Bharat Pumps & Compressors are committed to keep up our contributions towards
translating his dream into reality.

'

Bharat Pumps & Compressors Ltd., synonymous with the most sophisticated heavy
duty pumps, compressors and high pressure gas cylinders in the country is at the core
of the most vital industries-oil and gas exploration, chemicals and fertilisers petrochemi-

cals, thermal, hydro and nuclear power plants. . . in hospitals... homes.
A company which in just 12 years, has established the most sophisticated and
widest product range of :

RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS for handling air, gases and gaseous mixtures
suitable for single and multiservice application with discharge pressure upto 450 kg/cm2
capacity upto 25,000 M2/Hr and power rating upto 18643 KW.
>l‘CENTRIF’UGAL PUMS for a wide. variety in the ﬁelds of Oil exploration,
Petrochemicals, Reﬁneries and Pipe lines.

Chemicals & Fertilizers, Thermal, Hydro and

Nuclear Power generations with temperatures ranging from minus, 190C to plus 480C
and capacity upto 10,000 M3/hr at a discharge pressure of 170 kg/cmz.
३ RECIPRDCATING PUMPS for various Slurries Chemical ﬂuids and Oil rigs etc.
upto a capacity of 200 Mil/hr and a discharge pressure of 400 kg/Crn2 with power rating
upto 1268 KW including Reciprocating Ammonia and carbmate Pumps ( Technical
collaboration URACA, West Germany) upto 5260 liters per minute and pressure upto 630

kg/cm2 for fertilizer projects. , AND

३

"

*GAS CYLINDERS for permanent and liquiﬁable gases with pressure upto 160 kg/
cm2 and also for gases like Dissolved Acetylene, Freon, Ammonia and Chlorine as well
as for Medical and LPG Industrial and Domestic purposes.

bpc
At the Core and on the move

Bharat Pumps तै Compressors ltd.
८ ( A Government of India Enterprise )

NAINI-ALLAHABAD-Zl 1010 (U. P,)

