every time he goes out. Kurudavva (the
Blind One), a friend of Apanna’s dead
mother, who is the proverbially inquisitive village crone , visits Rani from time to
time. She is shocked by Apanna’s
illtreatrnent of the defenceless young
girl. Rani longs for human contact, and
spends her days alone reliving a happy
cthhood.

girl is in reality a katha or Story, and the
cloth she is wearing is her Song. The old
woman had known a story which she had
nevertold anyone. Fearing to die with the
old woman, the story had jumped out,
taking the form of the young girlThe
Story also arrives at the temple, and,
seeing the actor, makes a pact with hi m.
The Story promises to keep the actor
awake all night with a tale, provided he
nurtures her by passing the story on to
his audience.

Ku rudavva offers to make Apanna
fall madly in love with his wife. She gives
Rani a magic root, which she is to grind
and mix in his food. Rani does as told,
but though Apanna faints briefly, he recovers and behaves exactly as he always
does with her, that is, obnoxiously.
1 1’5».

Her husband returns, and beats her up
when he finds her outdoors. He locks
her up as usual, and goes off to the
bazaar woman who is his mistress.
Rani cries herselfto sleep. As she
sleeps, the Naga enters, having taken
the form of Harris husband to be able
to woo her better. Rani awakes anr
responds to his caresses with deligh
and gratitude. But the Naga leave
before dawn, and when Apanna rr
turns, he is as brutal as always. Th
is the first of the Naga’s visits, whi
soon become routine.
Rani is confused by Apanna
schizophrenic behaviourtowards her, ८
night passionate and tender, by de
cruel and uncaring. She is never sur:
if the nocturnal visitations are real - or

PLAY
Thus begins the narrative of Rani,
who is the epitome of innocence and
virtue while her husband Apanna (translated as any Man) is a brute and an
adulterer. Rani (so named because she
is her parents’ only daughter) leads an
unfulfilled existence as Apanna’s bride.
He treats her with callous indifference,
returning home in the mornings only to
bathe and eat his meals, and as a last
indignity, locks her inside the house

/८-

,

- ८

h.

. w...

Kurudavva is undaunted, and gives Rani
a larger root, which Rani obediently mixes
in Apanna’s milk. But the milk turns the
colour of blood and boils over. Terrified
both of her husband’s volatile temper
and of poisoning him, she poursthe milk
down a hole which is the Naga’s home.

v a figment of wishful thinking. When
she discovers herself pregnant, she
knows it is for real. Apanna accuses

