The music, more tribal than folk,is
performed live, with singers and a chorus
occupying part of the stage.

Hayavadana is the most sophisticated

piece of drama in Kannada. Naga Mandala
is his latest play.

An interesting point is made by the
prologue to the play : folklore can be kept
alive only through narration, and further,
that stories have their own character, independent frorn the narrator. The twists and
turns to the main body of the folk legend is
what makes the play so fascinating, and
Karnad’s craft so unique.

NOTE ON THE PLAY
Described as one of the best plays
seen on the Bombay stage in a long
time,Girish Karnad’s NAGA MAN DALA is
a beautiful blend of folk tales and a rich
imagination.
“The energy of folk theatre comes
with the fact that although it seems to
uphold traditional values it also has the
means of questioning these values, of
making them literally stand ontheir heads,’
says Girish Karnad.
“Through his words”, says Mehta
of Karnad,”he conveys ideas,and for a
director, the challenge is to convert the
ideas into a theatrical experience. How to
convey the concept of Flames chattering
like village women ? Or the concept of
Naga who is not any ordinary snake but a
king cobra symbolising sex, passion,
power - a force that pervades conventional walls and changes form in different
situations ?”
Vijaya Mehta’s direction reveals
both expertise and genius.

..
x
हृ
है

VIJAYA ME HTA (Director)

८
\
GIRISH KARNAD (Playwright)
Girish Karnad, who hails from
Dharwad, has had an eclectic and varied
career. A Rhodes scholar with a Masters
from Oxford, he has been Director of the
Poona Film Institute and is presently
holding the post of Chairman, Sangeet
Natak Akaderni. He is mainly known as
a playwright and also of course as a film
and television personality. Tuglaq and
Hayavadana are two of his masterpieces
which have helped define the form and
structure of drama. His Tuglaq has the
tone and texture of great drama.

Vijaya Mehta made an important
contribution to Marathi theatre as an
actress, but it is through ‘Rangayam’, the
theatre group she led in the 60’s and 70’s,
as well as her subsequent work on the
commercial and experimental stage
that she has made an even more
significant mark. ‘Rangayam’ provided
a meeting ground for the new generation of playwrights - when theatre was
beginning to break free from the British
models - like Tendulkar, Khanolkar and
Elkunchwar, and for actors like Sh rirarn
Lagoo, Sulabha Deshpande who were
exploring naturalism in theatre.
Vijaya Mehta’s productions are
marked by strict discipline. Her almost
insane energy and single-minded concentration have become proverbial in
Bombay, where she lives and works.

