scruple to witness the performance
musicians and dancing girls.

of

The lavish generosity of the Sultan has
been described by both contemporary and
later writers.

Even Barani, who is the fore-

most in casting aspersions on the characrer of
the the Sultan, refers to his liberal gifts and
acts of hospitality. It is difﬁcult to enumerate all the instances in which he made gifts
on a lavish scale both to the nobles as well
to the learned and pious men, who came from
foreign countries. He discouraged begging
and made provisions for the upkeep of the
poor, and forty thousand beggers were fed
everyday at the Public Kitchen.
Although he is accused

of killing his

father, it seems that he tried to make amends

for it by causing his father’s name to be
inscribed on the coins immediately after
his accession.
In any case, there is
unanimity opinion that he paid the highest
respect and obedience to his mother and
treated her most honourably throughout her
life. The Sultan had also great respect for
the elders, and always enjoyed the society of
learned men.
He had also a high sense of justice and
himself tried to judge cases in a fair manner.
1in Battutah narrates several anecdotes in
illustration of the Sultan’s modesty and
justice. Once an eminent Hindu ﬁled a suit
against the Sultan and had him summoned
before the Qazi. The Emperor walked on
foot, completely unarmed, to the Qazi’s
Court where he saluted and bowed. Previous
to his departure, he had issued orders to the

Qazi instructing him that he must not stand

or budge out of regard for him when he
appeared in his court,
Accordingly the
Emperor attended the court and stood before
the Qazi, who gave his verdict against him,
ordering him to compensate his opponent
for the blood of his brother. The Emperor
gave him satisfaction.
Against these good qualities and the

versatile

gifts and

accomplishments

of

Mohammad Tughlaq must be set his vices,
the chief among which were cruelty and
caprice.
According to Barani, the Sultan

“wantonly

Shed the blood of innocent

muslims, so much so indeed that a stream of
blood was always seen ﬂowing before the
threshold of the Palace.”
Almost all the
other Muslim chroniclers also describe
Mohammad Tughlaq as a cruel monster, and
several of them apply the epithet ‘bloody’ to
him. Some modern writers have made an
attempt to extenuate his crime, and even the
sober historian Ishwari Prasad has tried to
explain away the charges of ‘habitual and
wanton cruelty’ against the Sultan. He holds
that Mohammad Tughlaq was not a monster
who took delight in shedding blood for its
own sake. He admires his cruelty, but points
out that in the age in which he lived such
cruel punishments were not regarded as
abnormal. He is also of the opinion that the
Sultan was not essentially inhuman or wicked,
but the pCOple goaded him to desperation, so
that he was compelled to have recourse to
punishments and vengeance as the only means
of saving his kingdom from ruin.
In judging this matter the opinion of Ibn

Battutah seems to be quite decisive. He knew

