intimately not only the affairs of Mohammad

he did not take into conﬁdence or consult

Tughlaq but also the customs prevalent in that

any of his advisers. The only redeeming

age over a large part of the world. He was a
keen observer of men and things and had no
reason to be unduly severe against the Sultan.
He said, by way of preparatory remark to his

feature is that he did not push any of these

account, that he told the unvarnished truth in
respect of things which he himself witnessed,

and we have no reason to disbelieve it. In
view of these, there can be no better evidence
of the cruel character of the Sultan than the
severe denunciation made by this foreign
traveller.
Next to his cruelty the chief blots on the
character of Mohammad Tughlaq were his unpractical visionary ideas backed by caprice
and tyranny. The idea of changing the capital
from Delhi to Deogiri, the issue of token
currency, and the ambitious military expedi-

tions to Khurasan, are generally regarded as
due to his capricious temperament (as has
been pointed out above). Some modern
historians have tried to show that none of
these projects was inherently bad in itself, but
the failure of each was due to lack of foresight and practical experience.
But even
these are great defects in the character of a
king, and considering the amount of misery
they entailed upon the peOple and the kingdom, the king cannot be altogether exonerated
of the charges of caprice levelled against him,
particularly when we remember that all these
projects were products of his own brain and

schemes to extremities, and desisted as soon

as their bad effects were apparent to him.
It would appear from what has been said
above that although the current view about
Mohammad Tughlaq may not be true to the
whole extent, the attempt of some recent
historians to exonerate him from all blemishes
have not proved successful.
He was not a
monster or a lunatic, as has been suggested
by some, but there is no doubt that he was a

mixture of opposites, for his

many good

qualities of head and heart seem to be quite
incompatible with certain traits of vices in his
character, such as revolting cruelty, frivolous
caprice, and an inordinate belief in his own

view of things. He might have had good
ideas, but he had not the capacity to execute
them.
This was best exempliﬁed in his
ambitious projects like change of capitals,
issue of token currency and foreign expeditions, and the appointment of new classes of
ofﬁcials. All these indicate a want of judgement which is undoubtedly a great defect in
the character of a ruler, and it is difﬁcult to
avoid the conclusion that his character and
policy largely contributed to the decline of the

Delhi Empire.
——R.C. MAJUMDAR,
The Del/2i Sultanate.

It is said that the great pride of the Sultan
disabled him from discriminating between
small offences and serious crimes and made
him punish everything with ferocity.
His

doings included

acts

of ﬁendish

and a display of foolish generosity.
agined
an

6

cruelty

He im-

himself to be at once a Solomon

Alexander.

“Both

Barani

and

Ibn

