Battutah are lost in astonishment at his arrogance, his piety, his humilities, his pride, his
lavish generosity, his care for his people, his
loyalty to them, his preference for foreigners,
love of justice and his ferocious cruelty,
and cart ﬁnd no better description of his patron
than that he was a freak of creation”.
The above account seems to be a fair
attempt at an estimate of the Sultan’s
character. Most probably, he was a man
born before his time; and his schemes were

put forward some centuries too early. He
was a man of great ability; but he proved a
great failure as a sovereign, Yet the extremely
unfavourable view of the new interpretations
forthcoming of his wild schemes, like the
token currency, the transfer of the capital, his
designs for the conquest of Persia and China,
his cruelty and relentless taxation, the balance
has to be readjusted between the Sultan and
his successor, Firoz Shah, whose reign is

greatly praised, and who is deemed to have
reaped the harvest of what his predecessor
sowed.
The stupendous failure of Mohammad
Tughlaq’s reign, was due partially to his
temper and lack of statesmanship, but largely
to circumstances beyond his control.
A

severe famine which raged for more than ten
years, set his subjects against him. He had,
indeed, some very good traits. In one respect
he was liberal minded and showed “a greater
regard for the religious susceptibilities of the
Hindusthan his predecessors have ever done.”
He appointed some of them to high offices.
He tried to prohibit the custom of Sati; and
he left the Rajput States unmolested. He did
not give way to the wishes of the Ulemas
(men of religion of Islam) and endeavoured
to secure adequate and impartial justice even
as against the powerful and the great. Ibn
Battutah gives us the details about his elaborate system of judicial administration, His
even-handed justice was a source of grievance
to the privileged classes. He employed a
very large number of foreigners in his service,
treated them with great generosity and invited
men of ability from other lands. This injured
the interests of the hereditary nobles and the
ofﬁcial class to which Barani belonged; and
this, along with his stern justice, led to his
condemnation by the priestly class and to an
outcry against extravagance.
C.S. SRINIVASACHARI AND

M.S. RAMASWAMI AIYANGAR. 1.949.

A History of India.

Of all the kings, who had sat upon the
throne of Delhi since the Muslim conquest,

cultured scholar, and an accomplished poet,

Tughlaq was undoubtedly the most learned
and accomplished, Nature had endowed him
with a marvellous memory, a keen and
penetrating intellect and an enormous capacity
for assimilating knowledge of all kinds. The
versatility of his genius took by surprise all his

Mathematics, Philosophy, and the Physical

contemporaries.

A lover of the ﬁne arts, a

he was equally at home in Logic, Astronomy,
Sciences, No one could excel him in composition and calligraphy; he had at his
command a good deal of Persian poetry, of
which he made a very extensive use in his
writings and speeches.
(Contd. on page 13)

