Synopsis
See ne 0n e
Outside a law court in Delhi, a crowd——
The scene is set in 1327 A. D.
All of them, young and old, discuss the
comprising largely of muslims—has gathered.
bewilder the masses. The court has
Sultan whose precepts and personal examples
lands to Vishnuprasad, a brahmin,
just decreed that the Sultan should return all the
His moral exhortations and hlS
whose lands had been conﬁscated by his ofﬁcers.
are looked at questioningly by
efforts to bridge the void between Hindus and Muslims

his own subjects.

of
His generous enthusiasm and f'arsightedness are taken advantage

by a clever and ingenious impostor, Aziz.

to Daulatabad
The Sultan proclaims his intention to shift the capital from Delhi
and ﬁnd
which infuriates the people. They discuss the ruthless decrees of the Sultan
the
in them enough justiﬁcation for the rumour that the Sultan was responsible for
death of his father and brother.
Scene Two

The Palace: Tughlaq is absorbed in his game of chess, all alone. His stepmother intrudes and is stunned to hear from Tughlaq that his boyhood friend, Aineul-mulk has risen against him in revolt and is marching on Delhi. The historian
Barani and the Vazir Mohammad Najib enter. Tughlaq holds consultations with
Najib on his preparation for war against Ul-mulk, much against the sober and
visionary Barani’s wish. Sheikh Imamuddin of Bengal, a religious ﬁgure with a big
following, and one who is outspoken in his condemnation of Tughlaq’s misdeeds, has
come to Delhi. Najib gives a timely warning to Tughlaq of Imamuddin’s presence
in Delhi. The Sultan’s step-mother, who thinks that her son is mainly inﬂuenced by
Najib, requests Barani to keep a protective eye on Tughlaq.
There is an announcement that Tughlaq has asked the Sheikh to address the

citizens of Delhi from a public platform.

Scene Three
Sheikh Imamuddin ﬁnds that not a soul has come to hear him. Tughlaq
explains that the people axe suspicious of the Sheikh’s sincerity.
He requests the
Sheikh to act as his ambassador in bringing a reconciliation with him and Ul-mulk.
Sheikh hesitantly accepts the new honour,

