Scene Four
Shihabuddin, whom Tughlaq has appointed to act as custodian of
his capital
in his absence, is talking to the step-mother when Ratan Singh,
announces Tughlaq’s
Victory in the war and Sheikh Imamuddin’s death, Shortly after,
Tughlaq enters
and recalls while narrating the war events, his full pardon to Ul-mulk, Shihabud
din
learns from Ratan Singh the Sultan’s intrigues in the war which had taken a toll in
the life of the Sheikh.

Scene Five
The Amirs, Sayyids, religious heads,

clandestiner at a private place

Shihabuddin

and Ratan Singh meet

and conspire against the Sultan.

Shihabuddin

hesitantly agrees to take part in the dark scheme outlined by Ratan Singh. Inspite of
the protests of the religious head against any scheme which would polute the prayer
time, the others resolve to murder the Sultan at the prayer time itself.

Scene Six
The Arnirs and Sayyids are completely forestalled by the Sultan as they are all
encircled by Hindu soldiers, specially planted around his Durbar Hall. In a ﬁt of
beastly rage, the Sultan stabs Shihabuddin and kills him. Realising that even prayer
was not free from politics, he banishes prayer itself from his country.
Two announcements follow. The ﬁrst concerning Shihabuddin’s burial and
the second asking all the citizens of Delhi to march to Daulatabad, the new capital.
Scene Seven
Aziz tries to reap the harvest of the Sultan’s mistakes. He learns of Sultan’s
coming decrees and suitably alters his plan to his own advantage.

Scene Eight
The sentries are seen on the top of the impregnable Daulatabad fortress,
Tughlaq appears and sends f'or Barani. The news of uprisings and revolts all over his
kingdom have upset the king and he determines to suppress all revolts by mercilessly,

slaughtering every evil doer.

The guard rushes in and announces the murder of

Mohammad Najib.

Scene Nine
Aziz is planning his future course while Azam is sick of Aziz’s risky and razorsharp ventures. True to Azam’s suspicion, Aziz murders Ghiyasuddin Mohammad,
a descendant of Caliph of Baghdad, who comes at Tughlaq’s invitation, Disguising

himself as the saintly Caliph and arming himself with the King’s scroll and the sacred
rin , Aziz enters the new capital,
g

(Cont. on page 12)

