Tughlaq as Historians See
(Conta’. from page 7)

Tughlaq was a strict Muslim who rigidly
practised and enforced Observances laid down
in the Holy Book. But he was not an unrelenting bigot like some of his predecessors.
His liberalism is reﬂected in his desire to be
tolerant towards the Hindus and his humane
attempt to introduce ameliorative reforms like
the suppression of SATI which was in vogue
in the fourteenth century.
Superﬁcially viewed, the Sultan seems to
bean amazing compound ofcontradictions.
But he is not really so. The charges of bloodthirstyness and madness brought against him
by later writers, are mostly unfounded. No
contemporary writer gives the fairest indica-

tion of the Sultan’s madness.

It was the

members of the clerical party who bolstered
the charge of blood-thirstyness against him.
This was mainly due to the Sultan treating
them with open disregard. No doubt, like
all medieval deSpots, he too was subject to
great paroxysms of rage, and the oﬂenders of
his will were inﬂicted with the most brutal
punishments. All, irrespective of the rank
or Older to which they belonged were treated
alike; but this is quite a different thing from

stigmatising him as a born tyrant, taking
delight in the shedding of human blood. A
Close examination of the alleged murders
and atrocities of the Sultan will reveal the
unsoundness of the common view that he
found pleasure in destruction of human
The
species and organized ‘Man hunts’.
truth is that the Sultan combined a head-

ministrative reform, and when his subjects
failed to respond to his wishes, his wrath

became terrible, . His impatience was the
result of popular apathy; just as popular
apathy was the outcome of his startling
Innovations.
There is ample evidence in the pages of
Barani and lbn Battutah to show that he
could be kind, generous and just even towards
enemies.

He possessed an intellect and

passion for practical improvement, which we
rarely find in medieval rulers. But his task
was extremely onerous one. He had to deal
with problems of an ever-growing empire with
a staff of ofﬁcers who never loyally cooperated with him. He had also to reckon
with the orthodox ‘Ulema’, who clarnoured
for privilege and who resented his attempt to
enforce justice and equality among his
subjects.

All modern writers repeat the charge of
madness against the Sultan, but neither in the
pages of lbn Battutah nor in the history of
The
Barani, there is any mention of it.
charge of blood-thirstyness is equally unten-

The Sultan was no monster of
able.
inequality who loved crime for its own sake.
He inﬂicted severe punishments on the wrongdoers, but punishments were always severe
in his days both in Europe and Asia. There
is little point then in the denunciations of the
in
European writers who are always severe
and
judging the actions of Oriental Statesmen
and rulers,

In pronouncing a verdict on

es in
Mohammad we must bear his difficulti
mi n d.

I anA RI P RAक्या I). l 944 .

Hist my 0/ India .

ofadstrong temper with advanced ideals

l3

