l

Ibn Battutah who stayed in his Court for a
few years, and of Indian-born Ziyauddin
Barani, show this king in a peculiar light.
He puzzled even his Courtiers and friends.
There is no doubt that he was hasty and hot
tempered and very opinionated. He wanted
his own way and could not tolerate opposition
though he could act humbly on occasion. It
may also be that when so many of his brilliant
schemes failed, he became somewhat unbalanced. Gradually, his temper grew very
uncertain and his punishments cruel; in his
later years he was convinced that everybody
was against him.
‘

Prince Jauna has been described as the
most striking ﬁgure in medieval history,
Some have called him a great general and a
mad genius; certainly he was very learned,
for he could talk on Philosophy or Logic,
Metaphysics or Religion,

Mathematics or

Astronomy, with the most learned men of the
land. He had really enough ideas to serve a
score of kings, but he led a simple life and
was modest and generous. Most of his undertakings, and there were many,
reasons

behind

them,

had sound

but none of them

succeeded. The reason may be that inspite
of a vast theoretical knowledge of things, he
lacked practical sense. Contemporary records
of trained observers, of people like the great

SAYYID FAYYAZ MAHMUD. 1960.

A Short History ofIslam.

Ulugh Khan ascended the throne under
the title of Mohammad bin Tughlaq. The
character of this man was a compound of
the highest virtues, and the grossest and
most horrible vices,
He is admitted to
have been the most eloquent and accomplished prince of his time ; yet, with all his
talents and accomplishments, “so little did
he hesitate to shed the blood of God’s crea-

the large bribes he had given to the Mughals
emptied his treasury. The taxes on the
people were increased to such an extent that,
in despair, the poor left their occupation and
took refuge in the jungles, where they lived
by rapine. Mohammad Tughlaq thought of
a terrible mode of punishing those unfortunate
people. Ordering out his army, as if for a
hunt, he

tures, that when he took vengeance, it seemed

as if he wished to exterminate the human
family.” Mohammad Tughlaq put down
the revolts that had burst out in the Deccan,

and next planned the mad project of conquering the world. An army of one-hundred
thousand men was sent through the passes
of the Himalayas against China, but only a
few returned to tell of their defeat and sufferings, and even those few were put to death
by cruel order of the King.
The cost of the expedition to China and

14

surrounded a large extent of the.

country, and then driving all the people
within this circle towards the centre, cornmanded them to be slaughtered. Again and
again this kind of hunt was indulged in.
Famine necessarily followed, and misery
beyond description. In the midst of all this,
Mohammad Tughlaq resolved to shift his
capital to Deogiri. All the inhabitants of

Delhi were ordered to proceed thither.

It

was a long journey. Deogiri lay more than
seven hundred miles away. The unfortunate
people had to cross mountains, fords, rivers,

