and pass through jungles on their way. Worn
out with fatigue and famine they died in
thousands and the few that arrived at Deogiri
were reduced to such misery, that at last
Mohammad allowed the survivors to return
to their old homes. ' Revolts burst out in
different parts of the empire,

country on the Coromandel coast followed
in 1347 with similar success. Two independent states were established there—the

Hindu Kingdom of Vijayanagar and Mohamrnadan Bahamani Kingdom.

Bengal took

DAVID SINCLAIR. 1900.

The

Outlines of Indian History.

Mohammad Tughlaq was very different
from the illiterate Allauddin or the PuritanicalBalban. He was a scholar, a lover

Accordingly, he spent his time introducing
great designs insufﬁciently prepared, and his
impatience led him to ﬁts of savagery when
the inefﬁcient system on which the kingdom
was run led to disaster. The lack of proper
organization of rule was the main cause for
the breaking up of the empire in the latter

of literature, a dabbler in the Science which

the Arabs had preserved from the Greeks, a
Mathematician and Philosopher, and a man
of deep knowledge of the culture of his day,
Persian poetry and Arabic literature in all
its branches. He was indeed ‘a man of
ideas’, but unfortunately the ideas were in
advance of his times, and his autocratic
temper made him impatient of all opposition
and, when thwarted, the tinge of instability
of an intellect almost amounting to insanity
led him to actions of the greatest cruelty.

Both Barani and Ibn Battutah are lavish
in their praise of the Sultan’s generosity, as
also in their condemnation of his cruelty
and blood-thirstyness. Barani attributes the
Sultan’s cruelties to the evil inﬂuence of
twelve wicked councillors, but Mohammad
was no weakling.
Superﬁcially viewed, the Sultan seems to
be an amazing contradictions. But he is
not really so. The charges of blood-

part of his reign, and he undoubtedly hastened

this by reforms which, though excellent in
theory, failed when put into practice in the

circumstances of the age.

J.C. POWELL PRICE. 1955.

A History of India.

with open disregard. It is true that he was,
like all medieval despots, subject to great
paroxysms of rage and inﬂicted the most
brutal punishments upon those who offended
against his will, irrespective of the rank or
order to which they belonged. But this is
quite a diiferent thing from stigmatising him
as a born tyrant, taking delight in shedding
human blood.

thirstiness was bolstered up by the members
of the clerical party whom the Sultan treated

ELLIOT AND DOWSON (VOL. 111)

15

५५५ ‘ '

up arms and gained its independence.

