of their misery and wretchedness.

No treat~

to see the ills, but not clever enough to know
that they were better undisturbed, Quieta

ment that I employ is of any beneﬁt. My
remedy for rebels is the sword. I employ
punishment and use the sword, so that a

non movere was never his motto ;

rather was

it ‘be instant in season and (especially) out
of season.’ On the whole his was a ﬁne
principle, a high ideal ; but the reaction when
he found his ideal unattainable was violent
and deplorable.

cure may be effected by suffering. The more
the people resist, the more I inﬂict chastisement.
Tughlaq’s great mistakewa capital error
in an Eastern country—was that he could not
let well or ill alone. He was too clever not

STANLEY LANE-POOLE. 1963,
Medieval India Under Mohammad an Rule.

Not withstanding that Mohammad bin
Tughlaq was guilty of acts which the pen
shrinks from recording, and that he wrought

but they have not become friendly and
loyal.” Thus, he went on, unmoved from
his fell purpose, untill his inhuman tyranny

untold misery in the course of his long reign

caused the break-up of the empire of Delhi.

he

It is admitted, on all hands, that he was
the most eloquent and accomplished prince
of his age. His letters, both in Arabic and
Persian, were admired for their elegance,

was not

wholly evil.

He established

hospitals and alm houses, and his generosity
to learned Muslims was unprecedented. It
was even possible to describe him with truth
both as “the humblest of men” and also as
an intense egoist. Eliphinstone’s summary
of his enigmatic character deserves quotation : Moreover the Sultan, like Jahangir
afterwards believed himself to be a just man,
and was persuaded that all his atrocities were
in accordance with the principles of justice
and Muslim law. There is no reason to
suppose that his conscience troubled him.
On the contrary, he deliberately defended his
conduct against criticism and avowed his
resolve to continue his course to the end.
"I punish”, he said, “the most triﬂing act

of contunacy with death.

long after he had ceased to reign.

His

memory was extraordinary; and, besides a

thorough

knowledge of Logic

and the

Philosophy of the Greeks, he was much
attached to mathematics and to Physical
sciences; and used himself to attend sick
persons for the purpose of watching the
symptoms of any extraordinary disease. He
was regular in his devotions, abstained from

wine and comf'ormed in his private life to
all the moral precepts of his religion. In war
he was distinguished for his gallantry and
personal activity, so that his contemporaries
were justiﬁed in esteerning him as the one
of the wonders of the age.
Yet the whole of these splendid talents
and accomplishments were given to him in
vain ; they were accompanied by a perversion

This I will do

untill I die, or untill the people act honestly

and give up rebellion and contunacy
I have dispensed great wealth among them,

17

