CLASSICAL DANCER

. rig
An inspir
journey

है

mlta. Shurnitn. althoth re uctant at first

as she hadn't taught a special child be-

CHAMPION soedal artistehenna sahane.

A

She admits that every special child can’t
be Prei'ana. “Even every abled child who
carries to learn dance isn't as talented as
her. lookingat her talentand dedication,
it appears as though she was born to
ce," says the proud guru. She hastily
gives creditto the dancer’sparents in taking herto where sheis today by sheerhard
work, perseverance and courage.
Daughter of high school teachers, Prerana
ed Severeparalytic attack
when shewas just sixmonths old. making
her inunobile below the neck Ujjawala
and Keshav decided to givetheir bestshot
to get their only daughter back on feet.
With continuous
eatment she
startedwalking by the timeshe was three
yearsold.
/' “In our focus to get hermobility back,
wedidn't pay attention to her other sensations. and by the time we realised it.her
hearing ability couldn't be regained.” re—
tails her mother Ujjwala. a PhD holder.
who decided not to enrol her kid in aspecial school as she wanted her to learn
everything like any normal child. It was at
one of the cultural functions in her school
that she felt that her young child. too.
might dance. as she had seen Prerana
dancein her own ways whenever she saw
someone dancing on TV. So. along with
her husband Kmhav, she ap roached Shu-

Distant recognltlon
Recipient of few awards. the 30-yearcld
Prerana and her mother have a genuine
complaint against the society and the government.Ujjawala says. “Ourdaughteris
really talented. She needs encouragemerit.By inviting herto dance and paying
her Rs 100 or Rs 200 is insulting her.
Compare her to some ofthe Bollywood
stars who don‘t know anything about
dance but are paid lakhs and sometimes
crores. Yes. they are popular. But these
kids need more encouragement. She
needs to sustain herself.“
Along with herguru, Ujjawalaexplains
that Fret-Aha haspassed four years ofexams of Bharatnatyam from Akhil
Bharatiya Gandharva Mahavidyalaya.
“
becauseofherdisability. she isn'tallowed to take the ﬁfth year’s Visharad
exam as it entails verbaltesting. She can
write down her replies to the questions!
We are protesting to m '
ese exams
so that students with similar disabilities
can pass the exams.A person's disability
shouldn‘t be the criteria to debar them
'
"pmtats ahurt
from takingexarnmations.
and anegmother.
Prerena. now married for a year In a
special man with similar disabilities. plans
to hold her painting exhibition soon. in
Pune. As herparents say, “Our daughter
is talented. She needsencouragement. not
charity. Her silent world is ofdance. She
is quite self—sufﬁcient to live on herown.
All she needsis a different attitude from
the society.”
SUREKHA KADAPA-BOSE

.W—v—i.

Team effort

fore). agreed to giveit atry.
To help their child. the parents even
shifted home so that she could be nearer
her dance teacher and not miss a single
class, “Even if it was raining oreven if she
wasn‘t well. her father saw to it that our
daughter never missed her classes. And
that has helped Prerarla reach her dance
zenith today." explains hermother.
After her urangetmm in 2007. along
with her studies and participation in
sports. water-colourpaintings, writing poetry. Prerana has been performing in
Kolkata, Pune, Mumbai etc. She has appeared on TV channels Star News, E‘l'V
Marathi. DDl and others.

..

‘ Dheem. d/reem tad dht’em. kimmlr
to daginn mtdheem...‘ and so went
on the beat on mridangam. thal<
[am and flute. accompanying the singer
singing Kh'slmu NfBegane Baum. 0n the
centiestage was a performer looking ethe
real and enthralling the audience with a
perfect rhythm while she happily transformed herself into the mother of Balagopal in hermitya with every blmva and
mainrequired.
She is Prerana Sahane. the young
Bharatanatyam dancer from Punein Mahtra.
What sets her apart from odier hundreds ofIndian classical dancers is that
she is a special woman. She lives in a
world ofsilence and quiet. Sinceher childhood she hasn't heard a single sound or
spoken aword. She is hearing and speech
impair .
But. looking at her on stage or elsewhere, it‘s justimpossible to feelor know
about her disability till her mother and
mentor. Uﬁwala. mentions it. When she
is on stage, one has to look closely and
notice her dancegum,Shumita M
jan.
sitting in the pit at the centre ofthe stage
along with technicians, instead of sitting
on the right side on the stage where the
other accompanying artistes are sitting
and performing. “She doesn't miss the
beat because1 guide her from my place in
the pitwithmyhands." exp '
humita.
who has been teaching and guiding Pre
ranafor nearlytwo decades now.Prerana
is the only special girl that Shumita has
been guiding in her 25»year-old dance
school, Sadhana Nrityalaya.

आदर्श ५ . ~

r

