RAM DAYAL SHARMA
A Music teacher, composer, actor, singer, writer and director, Ram

Dayal Sharma has won numerous awards and citations (or his work.
Ram Dayal Sharma is one at the most renowned artists at Swang,
Raas and Nautanki Iolk Iorms in the country. He is the Guru (senior
most teacher) of the Iornous "Swami-Khera" Gharana (tradition) ot
Raas leela, Swang and Nautanki ol Mathura-Bharatpur region at Uttar

Prodesh and Raiasthan.
His musical and theatrical compositions have been perlormed in Theatre

Royal and Taro Arts, London UK, Japan, Germany, Bulgaria, S.
Korea, Australia, Thailand, Norway, etc. He has participated in many perIormances organised by
Unicel, The Sangeet Natak Academy, National School oI Drama, Sahitya Kala Parishad, Apna-

Utsav, Urdu Academy, Sarthi Group all over India.
A composer and actor/singer, he has contributed to productions in modern theatre also - Agra
Bazar (Dir-Habib Tanvir), Sharvilak And Chhuppu Khan (Dir-Bansi Kaul), Ganga maati (Dir- R.G.
Baiai), Mithya Abhirnaan, Paryavaran, Andher Nagari, Harayali (All Dir. by Shanta Gandhi),
Chhuk-Chhuk Gadi (Dir-Dr. Mayer, Germany), Naya Gokul (Dir-J.N. Kaushal) and Motu Ki Moonchh

(A puppet play dir. by Dadi Padamiee) amongst others - all at which he also perIormed in as actor
and leading singer.
His credits as Director and composer of Nautanki/Swong Productions are too numerous to list (over
3,000 productions). Some of the notable ones, which he also wrote and designed include. Ji Hazoor,
Beti Ka Byah, Shri Krishna Sudarna, Lakar Hara, Roti Kapara Ghar, Harit Vohini, Subah Ka
Bhoola, Raia Bharthri. Those in which he also acted include : Arnar Singh Rathor, Indal Haran,

Mastani Guiari, Satyavan Savitri, Aalha oudal, Padrnavati, Jhansi Ki Rani, Syah Posh (Pak
Mohabbot), Harishchandra Torarnati, etc.

A teacher at the Bal Bhavan (Youth Academy) in New Delhi tor the past 26 years, he is responsible
tor the training at adults and children in all Iorrns at Indian Music including classical, Iolk,

modern Theatre. In addition to Raas, Swang and Nautanki, he is also a specialist in Ram-Lila,
Bhaians, Katha Vachan, Saang and Parsi Theatre.

Apart tram theatre, he has also composed music and has done playback singing (or Films and
electronic media that includes 'Tadak Dham Dham' by Rarnesh Sharma and Pankai Baipayee, 'Rahna
Nahin Desh Birana hai' (a I 6 mm. film), live Short Iilms Ior Human Resource Ministry, a serial

"Sangharsh", all directed by his son Devendra Sharma, ० telelilm "Kaun" directed by Ajay Sharma,
two teletilms directed by Ashok Chakradhar etc.
Ram Dayal Sharma is- also ० regular broadcaster on All India Radio and Doorsarshan. He is ०
visiting proIessor and examiner in Music and Iolk theatre at the National School at Drama New

Delhi. He has also taught at the Jamia Millia Islarnia, Lady Irwin and Zakir Hussain College.
क्या
मब---"--"----"-----------------------------

