SHRI RAM CENTRE ACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre tor Periorming Arts grew out at what was originally known as the Indian National
Theatre in I 948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural Scene. A leading Cultural Organization, its
obiective is to nurture and develop talent in the periorming arts and its programmes are organised towards this end.

Theatre Repertory :
Started in I 980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading companies of the country. The
repertoire ol outstanding plays perlormed by the Repertory including Sakharam Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin
Dekhya Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuii & Pagla Ghoda have contributed signilicantly to Hindustani drama
in the country. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, the Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other
parts oi the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern plays in various styles and
torms under the direction oi such eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Raiendranath,

BM. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has pertormed 53 Hindi plays since its inception.

Acting Course :
To encourage young amateurs, the Shri Ram Centre tor Perlorming Arts conducts a two-year part-time

training programme. The Ist year is devoted to in-depth study on all aspects oi theatre and in the 2nd year
the basic theatre skills Iearnt are integrated into production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western
and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a prolessional team at Actors to sustain the Hinditheotre’s Iuture. Stbdents who complete the course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory or join the National School oI Drama or the media.
Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures :

The Shri Ram Memorial lectures held annually since I 986 are aimed at presenting and documenting the
lite-time achievements oi theatre luminaries oI the century. The three days lecture sessions delivered earlier
by such tamous theatre personalities as Utpal Dutt, Habib Tanvir, Badal Sircar, Nemichand Jain, Viiay

Tendulkar etc. are published by us For theatre posterity.

Children Theatre Workshop :
The SRC Children Theatre Workshop is one-month production oriented workshop conducted during Surnmer vacation every year under the guidance at a renowned Camp director. This Ieature is aimed to impart

theatrical values to children and to improve their communication skills.

