A NOTE ON THE PLAY.
The staging of a Shakespeare play by a group of young amateurs always
‘ involves the tackling of imrrense and often insurmountable problems. 'In ' the production of “KING LEAR" they take on the prOportions of huge mono lithi'c rocks,
irnrnoveably rooted in eavth as fertile as the mind of the genius that created them.

The cast’s collective consciousness and intellect can barely chip away at
thenL
But our humble 'chipping' has been a rewarding exper'ence and has rendered, we hope, a valid and meaningful interpretation. A part of our rehearsaf
pgﬁgd was profitably saent in playing the characters at varying extremes of
possible interpretation, to sound out the com lexity and richness of character,
and foster more subtle and human portrayals. उक्ति have looked for people under
the huge masks of stereotyped universal forces they might easily become. and
sought to project human passions rather than superficial theatrical egomania.
Our main concern has been the thrashing out of ideas on “human nature”

and the socio-philosophiCal conflict between two varying expressions of it; the
one, broadly speaking, based on faith in tradition and custom, an ordered
society and family unit in which each has a duty as a human being to observe
laws, relationships and rituals allegedly writ down by Beaspn or Faith, Love or

Charity, or various other ideals divine; the other, rejecting all this and governed
by appetite, plunges to the level of f’animal nature", andwith the jungle’s laws
of self interest and survival-of-the-fittest as its code, projects a horrifying and
, cautionary view of a dark, monstrous nature.
Edmund, the bastard and the villain, might draw sympathy, at least initially,
with his rationalising on society's inhuman attitudes towards baSIards. Lear, on
the other hand, the king and the tragic hero, should repel us in the first scene,
or at least shock us as a self-indulgent, foolish old man, lacking in patience and
wisdom. His two elder daughters, Goneril and Regan, though they ultimately
behave iriliurrtartly, feeding on unbridled selfish passions for power and sexual
satisfaction (much the same as in contemporary competitive societies), their initial reasoning over the ever-current social problem of “What to do with the
old?" should draw the sympathy of most adults, especially in view of the demanding, irritable father with whom they are forced to cope.
It would take a long essay to list the number of situations, characters and
themes that we have discovered ta be relavant to our society—for example,
Lear's pilgrimage to a harsh reality, away from the superficial, hypocritical retreat of court-life, out into a painful ‘ world of deprivation, cold and hunger, to
which he had given no thought previously. His sufferings bring him self-knowledge and wisdom; they are a survey of social injustices, a realization that all
men are men with no right to judge each other, and that lives devoted to the
securing of power, money and material goods at the expense of basic human
decencies will grow warpedly, rnonstrously and self-destructively. Even a lesser
character like Oswald, the ultimate 'yes-man' who Will do anything to please
his boss and earn a wage- increase, is representative of a vaSt portion of modern
urban society.
If we have come some way towards raising these issues meaningfully, then
we hope that you theaudrence can consider them along with us the performers;
and perhaps, along wrth the Fool, feel that the only {sane' attitude towards the
’normal'_world is to laugh at it cruelly and grbtequely—for the terrible reason
that so little In that world makes acceptable sense.
i
' '
Barry John

