I I Iu r u: - l—n'r. चम ४

I.
I

Afternoon Despatch Br Courier ‘

I/

vvww aitc rn(io n(ic r n

Sarudiya chcnrlra strikes man
chordswitltlris soulful IIIIISIIE

अँ'

‘ ' ८ am ‘4श्या

MUMBAI 1 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015

«< lN BRIEF»
{RAND MUSIC LAUNCH 0r ‘KATYAAR
KALIAAT GHUSLI’
'Katyaar Kaljaat Ghusli' a film
directed by Subodh Btiave has
already been in tire news for its
awesome rriusic. The complete
album of 20 songs for tilts film was
‘‘
launched recently in a grand event.
The play waswritten by Purushottam Dawekar and its immortal
musicwas composed by Panditiitendra Abliislieki with additional
songs composed by Shankar Ellsaan Loy who launched the aiburn.
The film stars Sachin, Ammta Khanviikar, Subodii Bhave, Sakshi
Tanvar, Mninmayeé Deshparide and Shankar Maiiadevan in
leading roles.

pupil of the maestro .\iilil(li)
(Ihatteriee.
The directorate of i iil'iii’".
Government oi बि1९111९1त्मार्त्तशामू1.
celebrated the world audio
visual (lay h_\ nrganmng a
special programme at the
Ravindra Natya Mandir. it
was a listening session Hill]
actual raga demonstrations
and the [Oplt‘ of 'Raagrlari
and Marathi lihavgeet The

cyzazcarnrbramna;r
rIWlie sarod is one of the
most wonderful instru-

ments of Hindustani
music. The depth of its sound
and its look itself keeps the
music lover glued to their

seats. If the sarodist is a brilliant player then it is impossible to become aware of

external surroundings and

GRAND MUSIC LAUNCH OF ‘LORD OF
SHINGNAPUR’

programme received an m er-

one would simply immerse
oneself into the sound waves
generated by the sarod. This

whelming response from the
audience which had queued
up for the seat at least an
पृ happened last Sunday at the
hour in advance.
.‘ Habitat Centre where ace sarClassics composed by P l.
odiya Tejendra Narayan MaShridhar
jumdar was featured in a national award for his score a distinct pulse which held Deshpande,
Parsekar, G N Joshi. Sudhir
morning concert which was for the epic ﬁlm 'Garm Hava‘ . the attention of the listener.
Phadke.
Gajanan
Wane.
Vas»
He
made
a
wise
decision
to
'I‘ejendra
has
also
trained
‘ in the open with sun rays
warming the pores of one's under Ali Akbar Khan after make a shift to the raga 'Bas- ant Prabhu and sting hy
Bahadur Khan's death. 'I‘ejen— ant Mukhari' for the exposi- Hirabai Badodekar. Saraswati
skin off and on.
'I'ejendra is a pupil of the dra began with alaps in the tion of the gat portion. It Rane, Madhubala lhaveri,
Asha
great Bahadur Khan. Not raga 'Ahir Bhairav', the raga made room for welcome ad- Lata Mangeshkar,
manypeople would recall Ba- which is a ﬁne blend of ditions. He later on played a Bhonsale. Suman Kalyanpur,
hadur Khan who was a 'Bhairav' and 'Kaﬁ' evokes in- composition in the raga 'De- Dashrath Puiari and others
cousin of the greatest Ali stant response if rightly vgiri Bilawal' which is rarely who played and relevant
Akbar Khan. Bahadur Khan played. Tejendra's glides and heard on the instrument. He ragas were demonstrated to
played'for the immortal clas— oscillations were effective received brilliant support on the delight of the huge audisics of the ﬁlm maker Ritwik and touched one's innermost the tabla by young Anubrata ence which cheered the effort
Ghatak and he also bagged a feelings. His 'jod' portion had Chatterjee who is the son and wholeheartedly.

The music of ‘ Lord otShinganapur'
was launched in a glamorous event
recently. The film is based on a
popular deity - Shani Maharaj and
has been written-directed by Raj
Rathod. For the event, boliywood
singer Sukiiwinder Singir, actress
Varsha Usgaonkar and TV celebrity
Rahui Mahajan were present. Entire cast and crew ofthe ﬁlm was
present including Ashutoslr Kulkami. Miiind Jostil,
cinematographer Prashantiadhav and editor Ajit Devie.The film
also marks debut ofTVcelebrity Rahui Mahajan in Marathi ﬁlms.
Tire lyrics is by Farukh Barelvi and the music has been given by
Farhan Shaikh and background music has been scored by Monty
Shanna.
-

‘1;

NAZAR TO RELEASE 0N
NOVEMBER 6
Nazar. a ﬁlm produced by Vision Arts will be
releasing on 6November all over
Maharashtra. The film stars Swapnil
Raishekhar and T'eia Devkar in the lead miss.
The ﬁlm is direded by Gorakh iogdand and
produced by May R Gupta, Dillp Wagr, Dr.
Hart Kokare.The plot ofthe ﬁlm revolves around a vision impaired
and beautiful young girl and how her love becomesthe strugge of
her life. The other cast of the ﬁlm includes Ravi Patwardhan, Arun
Nalawade. Viiay Gokhale, Pradoep Patwardhan and Kishor
Chauguie. The ﬁlm is mitten by GurkhaJogdand and dialogues
are written by Sana More.

३ ।१:१1-मि१०य१९९१शिबशि१नि/, different shades
oeratlialr‘ioiSahilya‘Sanglr audience
ByVIIAYSHANKBR ‘ -

Bapte, Madhura Aatie, Apurva Schcnl, Pools
strode, Aakansira Padho. Maushml Jain and

one based accomplished Kattiakcarpoiient lsha itothawato. While the chaupalii was
Maneesha Sathe and her "disciples perfumed In fouriaya, the chatur rang formed
presented an enthralling performance at four colours of dance. including kavya and
.Murnbal Marathi Sahitya sangh ’auditorium'in sargam, acomposition of Pandlt Balwant Roi.
The Hori number depicted the festival of
Glrgaum. last week. The performance was
notewortin for Its professional exocrtlse,
structural quality and substance.
Maneeslra Satire is among the senior most
exponents In Pune, who has been gaining
recognition for her startling perfonnanoes and

has also trained several dancers and herdance
academy has airoa‘in contributed forty one
yearsof its fruitful ardstence, which speaks
volumes of her devotion to the Kathak dance
fonnsllilaneesha with two of her disciples

commenced the perfonnanca with

an

' invocation to Lord Ganesha-followod'with the
pure dance of nine matras in Matti T'aai.‘ which
was performed with predision‘ and with .a
» pr'ofdssionaltouch. .

The disciples who performed were Vallarl

colours and was performedby sixdancers. Tho
place-dareslstance of the evening was the
depiction of'three different naylkas. Unlike
the naylkas who are always pining for the
Lord. Maneoha want astep hrrthartowards
'lokadhdnni' and interpreted three
different women namely a simple, a restless
and a proud women as- to how each one of
them visited the temple buthow they vary when
it comesto their behaviourandtheirmannarlsm
caught the attention and applause of the
audience. it was a commendable rendering by
M a ncash a Satire.
Besides tlro~natya sangoat number by the , , , ,..

dancers, Maneesha concluded
ह्मर्शाग्रश्याआध्यक्लीठग्नटामृधाफूश्याष्णु.

SUMIRAN-A MUSICAL TRIBUTE TO A
CLASSICAL VOCALIST GENIUS
The year2002 witnessed the
sudden demise of legendary
vocalist Late Pandlt c.R.Was since
then the Pancham Nishadhas been
organizing ‘Cirlntamanl Jayand
Samaroh' to celebrate birth
Anniversary otPanditc. R.Vyastor
»
the past 12 years in Puno. Manystalwarts like Kishori Amonkar,
Pandit Hart Prasad'Chaurasla, Dr. L Subramaniam, Raian a
Salon Mlshra, M;S.~ Gopalakrishnan. Rashid Khan, Budhaditya
Mukherjee, U. Srinivas. Satish Vyas. Malini Rajurkarand Shankar
Mahadovan to name a few have porfonnod in this musical solrae.
This year; Chintamanliayanti Samaroh is being organized torthe
ﬁrst time in the city of Mumbai titled 'SUMIRAN‘ at 1 pm. on the
9th of November 2015 atthe swatantrayaveer Savarkar
Sabhagruh, Cadell Road. Dadar (W). Mumbal to celebrate his91st
birth anniversary.

..

५३' आं .
_` 'रिव-व्या/यु:, a

the ३ i it
‘ I!“

८
हैड:

SWAPNlL JOSH l_S_iiiil_liSAli_iliN lN ‘MUMBAI PUNE MUMBAi-Z’
leased five years ago and directed by Satish Rajwade
Swapnil loshi, the choco- and starred Mukta Barve
late boy of Marathi cin— alongside Swapnil was the
ema who started as a child surprise hit of that year. Now
actor and achieved house- it's sequel is much more an
hold fame with the popular entertaining version with
show 'Ramayana‘ is now Swapnil playing a Pune boy
achieving stardom status in all out to marry a Murnbai
hit Marathi films
like girl played by Mukta Barve.
When quizzed about feel'Duniyadaari',
‘Mitwaa’,
‘Welcorne Zindagi', etc is ing any changes while
now upbeat about his latest shooting the sequel, Swapnil
release
‘Murnbai
Pune said, “Now we are much
Mumbai-Z Lagnala Yaychay' more a cohesive unit and
which releases on November understand each other more
better than five years ago
12 as a Diwali treat.
they were new to each
The original which was re- when
i r

By Sandeep Hattangadi

है r -

r

r . i

- r i t r

i

,

USHA NADKARNl T0 STAR IN
‘LONDONCIIYA AJIBAI’

other. Also the comfort level
had increased while shoot—
ing the sequel and they had
enjoyed the shoot more
now."
When asked about his
gaining stardom, Swapnil
added, “ 1 am still the good
old Girgaurn boy without any
trappings of a star but might
be the way people perceive
him. now as a star might
have changed the outlook
about him.” Now Swapnil is
all set to test the Hindi waters
with many stars like Akshuy
Kuinar and Ajay Devgn planning ﬁlms with him.

r ’r t r ' . _ \

r ५ t r . l

| r . .

t … .‘r को r r r .

.

Well known actor Ashok Sarafand
hischartered accountant brother
. Subhosh Sarafare all set to revive
their uncle Prasad Savkar‘s Drama
Group Kalamandlr. As part of this
(7
plan.they have decided to launch
"
--'
their play 'Londonchya Aailbal’. in
London itself. Grandma Banarse is a famous character Inspired
from writer Sarojini Vaidya's book ‘Kahani London Chya
Aajibalnchl'. Rally ioshi has converted liar story into this drama. It
is a story of a domestic servant from Choundl village In Vidarbha.
who goes to London forhousehold work; but later starts her own
catering business and becomes a very rich business woman.
r

.

