.5

Mu mbaI.
Thursday,August Z7, 2015
eoaperdna"tiiacorn

r”

"

cl a;

i it

३

'

‘ RafiaJa/di rector Manish Gupta insists that the
३ टु ialvar producer did, in fact, seek the Talwars
‘ consent, something VB has denied

मृ.

Subhuh K Jha

Mrs Vandana 'I‘alwar (Dr Rajesh
’I‘alwar’s sister-in-law) had given the
same offer to my producers and me at
our oﬂice in Malad in May 2014 after we
kept a special screening of our ﬁlm for
her. We had been asked to do so by the
Bombay High Court following the 'I‘alwar’s petition against our ﬁlm.

८५ v A. and

५ ५ .‘,,,८am , . “h . -_ 1.1m

hen a ﬁlm is based on a real-life incident, one of the
most obvious questions a
_ producer will be askedis if
he has secured consent fromthe parties
concerned. The same question was put
to Vishal Bhardwaj, whose production
Tatum: based on the Arushi-Hemraj What was her reaction to your ﬁlm?
murder cases due for release soon. He After viewing my ﬁlm, Vandana handreplied in the negative, saying, ।‘We have ed us two booklets written by her, that
not taken the permission. Through
रे
describe how the 'l‘alwars are comthis ﬁlm, we have shown the in‘
,
pletely innocent and how the povestigations of the police. The हैं
३ है
lice, CBI and the judiciary
CB1 did the investigation, f'ol- ‘-’ 3 ८३'३ i botched up their case. She said,
lowed by a probe by one more
त्माचे. ‘ ‘We want aﬁlm-maker or author
CBI team. So there are three ver३
to bring our true story to the
sions and we have tried to show that
world,to show the world that we are
with asmuch honestyas we could.” But innocent and how we’ve been wrongly
director Manish Gupta, whose ﬁlm Ra- implicated. If you could incorporate
hasya was based on the same case, isn’t these true details of our case in your
buying it. He insists that the producer; ﬁlm, we’d support your ﬁlm.’
did, in fact, seek the Talwars’ permission before starting work on the film Your reaction to her offer?
and makes some more revelations...
I refused her offer. She then pressed
hard for a stay order on my ﬁlm in the

Excerpts:

Bombay High Court. For 11 months, the

Vishal Bhardwaj says he didn’t seek
the Talwars’ permission before producing Talvar’?
Vishal is lying. The Talwars have given
him permission in exchange for an undisclosed amount of money. Also, Vishal
hasportrayed the 'I‘alwars as absolutely
innocent in the ﬁlm, which was the Talwar‘s primary condition while giving
Vishal the rights to their story.

Talwars fought this case against our
ﬁlm Rahasya employing the best lawyers in Mumbai. ‘Who was funding

श्या

Vishal Bhardwaj
is l ing. The
Ta wars have
given him permission in
exchange for an undis—
closed amount of money,
Also, Vishal has portrayed
the Talwars as absolutely
innocent in the film...
them?’ I Wondered. Our lawyers’ bill had
gone up to १45 lakhwhich was borne by
my ﬁlm’s producer and distributor. 'I‘he
’I‘alwars' lawyers' bill would have been
close to (15 cr since their lawyers had
been working very hard and round-theclock on this case for 11 months.
Who was paying their legal bills?
You tell me! A middle-class dentist couple who’ve been in prison and unem-

ployed for six years... Could they
afford to spend so much time,

energy and money in ﬁghting a case against a mere

film? How did my film
matter when they are
facing a death sentence?
Wouldn’t their focus be

I
,
: I
_, ‘

on saving their own lives rather than
pursue a ﬁlm that says it’s ﬁctitious?
Why were they so against your ﬁlm?
The answer became clear a few weeks
later when Vishal Bhardwaj announced
his ﬁlm. He had assured his ﬁnanciers
that myﬁlm Rahasya posed no threat to
his film since it‘d never release, due to
the High Court case pending against it.
The court case against our ﬁlmand the
lawyers who fought the case against us,
were ﬁnanced by Vishal because he was
the only one who stood to gain by our
ﬁlm not releasing. The uniqueness and
freshness of his ﬁlm would be affected
if our ﬁlm released ﬁrst.
Aren’t your observations on Vishal’s
involvement in suppressing your

ﬁlm, mere conjecture?
No. After we won the case and my ﬁlm
released, Iapproached the lawyers who
_ fought against us and grilled them
‘
personally ’I‘hey admitted that
Vishal had been funding
them and stated that they
had nothing personal
- against me or my film.
They had been employed
to do a job. And they'd be

happy to do that for any
client.
Did the court rule in favour
of your ﬁlm Rahasya?
Our lawyers won the case, largely be»
cause they exposed the true intentions

of the Talwars and Vishal by showing
How do you know this?

the judge, news articles and clippings
about the other ﬁlm ’I’alvar being made

with the consent of the 'I‘alwar family.
The judge understood the ploy; was thoroughly convinced with the logic our
lawyer presented before him and gave a

ruling in our favour.
Your observations on Vishal Bhardwaj could hurt his ﬁlm.
He is a great ﬁlmmaker and I respect

him. But I did not expect him to resort
to such deplorable tactics.

