ABOUT OURSELVES
’arvatiya Kala Kendra was registered as society in 1968
with a view to promote the folk forms of Uttarakhand in
order to enhance and enrich opera theatre. The Kendra
began slowly by adapting the folk dances and songs of
this region to the requirements of contemporary stage,
resulting in various choreographic compositions, which

were staged on different occasions in Delhi and other cities
of the country, as well as abroad.

BALLADS AND TRADITIONAL THEATRE
Notwithstanding the utility and popularity of such ensemble
work, wherein were presented folk songs and dances, the
Kendra developed a strong urge to build an indigenous
theatre, which could encompass the entire gamut of the
life of the hill people of Kurnaon and Garhwal and their
aspiration for a better life. Such a theatre, could only emerge

out of the various segments of the folklores of that region,
ofwhich the ballads constituted the strongest and the richest
source. The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase
by adapting the folk ballads of Kurnaon and Garhwal to
contemporary stage. Rajula-Malushahi (1981) was the ﬁrst
remarkable attempt of its kind.
Since this event the Kendra did not look back. It took up a

new ballad of the region and gave it a dramatic form. Ajua
Bafaul (1982), Mahabharata (1984), Rasik Ramola (1985),

leetu Bagdwal (1986), Hill-latra (1987), Bhana Gangnath
(1989), Haru Heet (1990), Rami (1992) were memorable
theatrical presentations. Of these Rasik Ramol was picked

up by Doordarshan for its national telecast in 1986. The
other dimension of the second phase was traditional

theatrical presentations. The Kendra staged Ramlila of
Uttraakhand (1981-85) which happens to be a unique
theatrical form in as much as it synthesizes Ramcharitmanas

ofTulsi with Hindustani, Awadhi and Brij song-compositions
by local poets of Kurnaon. Some of the episodes of this
Ramlila or its abridged version, were presented not only in

Delhi, Bhopal and Ayodhya but also in China, North Korea
and Bangkok. On the insistence ofthe organizers of Calcutta
Theatre Festival of Nanclikar, the complete abridged version
was staged.
Not is this all. The Kendra ventured into another

experimentation—that of presenting folk ballads of central
Himalayan Region - Haru-Heet (1 990), Lok Devta (1 994) and
Gori Dhana (1996), in Hindustani, so as to reach larger
audiences. These were well received.

