India, Pakistan Sing
at Each Other
Indian outﬁt Aisi 'I‘aisi Democracy and a band led
by an Army officer in Pakistan tackle subcontinent
politics through poetry and music

Musician Rahul Ram KunaI Batra

‘India writes the script for us’
SO MYA LAK H A N I

EVEN though the NSA~level talks between
India and Pakistan have been called off.
a different kind ofdialogue Iias ensued on
the iriternet. When the trio frorri starid—up
act Aisi Taisi Democracy posted their song
Mere saamne waali' sarhad pe recently to
promote the second season of their per—
formance. it became an instant hit in the
two countries and went on to even spawn
its counterpart in Pakistan.
Thesong. available on YouTube. is part of
a 90—minute act by stand—up comic Sanjay
Rajoura. musician Rahul Rain (of Indian
Ocean) and Varun Grover. Back on stage
with new content. part two of Aisi Taisi
Democracy takes potsliots at all involved in
shaping the current political landscape of
India. “Humaru desli liumaare liye khud Iii
sm'ptIiklita liai," says Ram. “Modi suit. the
Sardar Patel statue. Rahul Gandhi’s sabbat—
ical. Swaclich Bharat Aandolan. Kejriwal's
constant fighting with the centre. the FIT]
debacle... now that Mulayam Siriin has
made that atrocious rape comment. it
might become part of the script. A fair
amount of improvisation also happens."
says Rajoura.
The act is punctuated with a few songs.
written keeping the political atmosphere

in mi nd. There is I'm a Bubri don that Ram
wrotea few months ago. on right—wi rig iri—
tellectuals. set to the melody of the pop '
song I'm a Barbie girl.
Apart frorri political satire. there is also
commentaryon societal norms. famin sys—
terns.social media websites. among other
suchtopics. Rajoura's piece on questioning
one's parents. albeit liuniou rous, questions ‘
patriarchy. “These personal stories are
deeply political. There is a wrapper around
‘farnily' as a unit and that pushes patriarchy." he says. Grover. on the other hand.
will talk about the plight of couples who
choose not to have children. as well as the
rainbow-coloured display pictures on
Facebook when the US court verdict about
gay marriages was announced. "I also talk
about porn. my memories of growing up
and the porn ban." says Grover. whowrote
thecritically acclaimed film Masaan.
With Grover in Mumbai. Ram and
Rajoura inDelhi. a lot oftlieir work happens
on Skype and a WhatsApp group.There are
no rehearsals that the three ever indulge in
due to logistical reasons “Luckily. we have
the same politics and the same humour. It
works." says Ram.
Aisi Taisi Democracy will perform in
Bangalore, Kolkata. Mimibai and Delhifrom
September 7— IO. Tickets are available on
www.boo kmyshowco m

