THE INDIAN EXPRESS. मृ '५1

F
r दृ…'दृच्चा

'५ i ’ . i “t 1 i ' l 1 ‘ … ‘ l l 1

न
K A R'l‘, M 1 Mt: S’i‘i’ 1.1३, Ft )()1)

.v

Scenes from the play A Silly Story ofBondapa111'

Drama in a Foodie’s Kingdom
A new children's play. A SillyStory ofBoridapalli. looks at the sometimes contentious
relationship between children and food
v
v दृ . रूक्या६'८५९९णा.ग्ना५ 91‘.” mu:wa
RAD H IKA S IN G H

PLAYING WITH FOOD
SAAG M LAT: ln thisone-woman
play. Seema Pahwa talks about the
class disparities as she cooks
snag meat that she shares with

the audience.
CASSEROIE CASANOVA: A play
written by Herbert McCollurn has the
recently-widowed Roger visited by
ﬁve women. each carrying food to
woohirri.
COOKIN' NAle A South Korean

musical comedyabout three cooks

racing to preparea wedding banquet.
COOK YOUR LIFE: In this play from
Hong Kong. MayMay Chan cooks live
on stage as she draws parallels
betweenfood and love.
THE ART OF DINING:Set in a
restaurant. with live cooking and

eating.this playby TIna
Howe showcasesthe relationships
three groups of diametersshare.

has entaptured the kids.
“Children are obsessed with food. ‘
whether they like what the food is or not" ,
sastanit Temkar. who playsone ofthechefs
“During one performance.a child came up ‘
on stage and snatched a rasgulla that was
part of the set." recalls 'l'ernkan While the
kingdeclares. “l arria Food re King.and wherever you go in my kingdorii people love
food." children are able to let theirirnagrna- ‘
tioris run wtld. ‘lheir mouths water for the
diefs‘watermelon parathas — “crisp on the
outside. cool on the inside. the perfect way '
to beatthe summer heat”— and the stulled
turkey cooking in a tandoor that the king
ordered all the way fromIran
"Weall have traurrratic memories of be- ५
ing forte-fed as a child." says Gupta. adding
“In the play. I've tried to showthat adults are
often disconnected wrth the eatinghabits of
their child.“ She herselfishaunted by merriories of having to drink the "horrendously
pink" rose rnrlk athergrandmother‘s home.
Similarly. as the chefs try desperately to ﬁnd
something theprincess likes. she complains
that everyone is trying tofeed hersomething .
“specia against herwill "I’m happyeating
chapati. even plain rice." she cries out.
While Gupta and Sharli Satlryu. the play/s
producer and founder of the theatre group
Gillo. want to maintain the essence of the
story. theyare also aware that the fussrness
ofthe Rajkuman might triggerthe satire be
liaviour in a child in the audience, 'l'emkar
believes that the play has the potential to
bridgeinisunderstandrngsbeMeenparents r
andtheir children."After watching theplay. '
achi I dm igh tsay to I]iei r parents. '1 al so don't
like dalkhrrlrdi. whydo youmakeme eat it7 '
That's thechallenge. for parents to make t he
child understand their reasoning."

1JUST hate dal khichdi." screarris the disgusted Rajkumari. flinging her toys on the
floor.“Have youseen what dal khichdi looks
like? You can't see the dal. you can't see the
clrawal. ltjust looks like vomiL"
'
The children watchingthe play eruptinto
giggles at the Rajkumari's antics: some
nudge each other and exchangeknowing
looks.recalling. nodoubt. their own food-nelated peeves.
Someofthem had spenttheir lunchtime
scrambling on top ofoneanother at the
door's small openingandpressing their faces
against the windows oftherehearsal rootii at
the Akshara School inMumbai's Kandivili to
get aglimpse of the play.A Silly Story of
Bondapalli, Adapted’from the book ofthe
same name writtenby Shamim Padamsee.
it is a talemany children are familiarwith.
Director Timlra Guptaused the best—loved
portions ofthe bookto draw out the storyof
a food-obsessed king. his extremer fussy
daughter. and the three poor chefs tasked
wrth ﬁndingSomething the princess would
eat. Toprepare (or their roles, theactors say
they rernain9d in character even outside of
rehearsal They have even based the charac‘
ters' likes and dislikeson their preferences
in real life RH Instance. Sahil Cangurde. who
plays the king hates dalki'clidi too.
There is much achild would love about/1
Silly Story alﬂondapalli'. The chefs draw ad— ‘
miration With therryuggli‘ng antics. throwing up whi5k5. barlans.spatulas. and other
kitchen utensrls. "I love the idea of three
chefs." says Cu pta. “I have a background in
clowning.and a trio rs atypical clown forrnula." The bullets turn cartwheels and
dance arm illarm. Theking pt'ances around.
Inthe end. however. the play lonrsses on ५
applauding his chels' innovations one "celebrating food“.says Stitlryu. AsCangtrrde
nirnute,ai1d the next rnrnute hethreatens to says of his character. "theking relatesload to
cut their heads oli when they fail to please happiness. 111 his kingdorni happiness Is
the princess. Duringthe performance. the derived from eating."
tharacters often break the “fourth wall" of
A Silly Story of Boridapall I Will prem lt’l’t’ ‘
theatre to intiirovrse andaddress the chilon May 2 l. 6.30 pm. tit btpenrrieritol llreatn'.
dren drreclll’ But there rs little doubt that
NG’A Mn1r 1bti i: ut l’i1 1Irvr 711mm? orr May25
t he core ‘1’ the play, food, is what
tmtl Mtrv Joit! 1! pm and 4 prri

