भ
r ﬂuchika’s
/

As a part of our 25th anniversary celebrations, we are happy to have begun a
number of ‘Litte Actors Clubs located in different neighbourhoods of Delhi. These
have been started because we believe that there is increasingly a need for a new
kind of relationship between the arts and young people. It is an overstated fact that

the child’s exposure to ' creativity through actual participation in dance, drama,
music, art etc. forms an essential part of his/her developmental process. However

"‘9 availability of adequate facilities to make this possible, are few and far between.
3 "3 result young people tend to look on the arts as entertainment, as seeing the

artist as being a different kind of individual. There is an acute need to change this
kind of thinking. especially in the ﬁeld at theatre where, because the activity Is a
gimp 0’79 dealing With tangible living problems, the growth process of the individual
is not secondary, but reany primary.

Each Little AOiOIS ClUb PmVides a 35 session program run by experts covering an
QXte"SiV9 '3’799 Oi drama aCliVities. Movement, acting and improvisation, music

and elocution, creative writing and exm-essicn, art based activities and mask
making......... all these help the child gain in self confidence and self expression,
improve group-based interaction and put the child in touch with his/her
own

OI'GaiiViiM Through this process we are preparing the child to eventually be involved
in the entire production process, including backstage and onstage skills. The size

of each group is limited, so that each child gets individual attention.

Our first group began in November ‘96 in GK-II and three more groups located in
Noida, G.K. II and at Amity International School, Saket have been added since
then.

In AUQUSi 970‘” ”'3? Production 'Alibaba & Alladin' that you are going to see today,
was presented to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Ftuchika. Later the same year

in collaboration With the British Council, we presented ‘Man Born to be King’
based on the exhibition from the British Museum, ‘The Enduring Image '. In 1998
we mounted an original musical in Hindi 'Raunaqpur ke Bachche’ followed by

‘Telling Wilde Tales’ based on Oscar Wilde'5 St‘OI'ies for children. In August 99 we
'Ohe CoolI Cat’, a delightful new musical in Hinglish that
present a new pI'OductionNew
Delhi
tells of a lion at large in

Meera Jain is the course coordinator; Noida; Radhika MUlliokAIkazi is the course
coordinator; GK—II and Jagan Shah coordinates at Amity International School,
Saket‘udetails call Radhika at 6419862 or Meera at 91 ~512156

