4

Twenty Years of Parvatiya Kala Kendra
Parvatiya Kala Kendra was formed in 1968 with a view to promoting the folk forms
of Uttarakhand comprising the Central Himalayan regions of Kumaon and Garhwalm
the folk forms connected with the rituals, ceremonies, dances and songs, legends,
ballads, tales, as also the traditional Ramlila (the sole theatrically developed form of
Uttarkhand). The Kendra began slowly by adapting the folk dances and songs of this
region to the requirements of contemporary stage, resulting in various choreographic
compositions, which were staged on different occasion in Delhi and other cities of the
country, as well as abroad.

FIRST PHASE

The song & dance ensemble was the ﬁrst phase of artistic growth of the Kendra extending from 1968 to 1980. A programme of about two hours duration were presented
which projected the complete cultural milieu of the region. The Kendra was cautious
from the very begining to choose such a path, that would help it to avoid pitfalls at

both the ends—the pitfall of the so called pure presentations in the name of authenticity which could only be a crude copy of the original forms on the one hand, or an
individualistically oriented abstract choreography as would have gone beyond the

matrix of prerelent folk forms, on the other. This approach helped the Kendra to
preserve the vitality of the folk forms as also to make them stage-worthy. This was
also necessitated by the fact that the Kendra was trying to cater to the cultural needs
of a fast growing population of uttrakhand dewelling in a vast metropalis like Delhi
and what is more important, to a new generation seeking its roots in its ethnic CUlture:
In a way this was an extension of the work started by the Lok Kalakar Sangh in

Almora, Swayback in the ﬁfties.

SECOND PHASE
Notwithstanding the utility and papularity of
such ensemble work which presented the
songs and dances only, the Kendra started feeling a stran
g urge to build an indegene-

ous theatre, which could encompass the entire gamut
of the life of the hill people of
Kumaon and Garhwal, their aspiration for a better life,
a theatre which could reﬂect
their problems, as also deepen their aesthetic sensib
ility and awareness making them
aware of their
past the present and the future. Such a
theatre, we thought would onl
emerge out of the various segments of the folkl
ore of that regiOn, of which the ballad);
constituted the strongest and the richest source.
Being the unwritten records of the lif'
of the perop

le, as lived

by them for centuries in the lap of the Himalaya
s the se 6
ed to offer a very strong potential for any
the atrical venture.
’
y em-

