5
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting the folk ballads of
Kumaon & Garhwal to contemporary stage. Rajula—Malushahi was the ﬁrst attempt
of its kind. Shri Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely familiar with the background
culture and folk traditions of that region, prepared the ﬁrst script which, however,
covered only half of the ballad. The script was in Kumaoni, and was produced in
an operatic form. The ﬁrst performance of this production was given in 1980 at
Kamani to packed houses.
Encouraged by the tremendous respose we received, we decided to present the
full ballad. It was produced & presented in 198], This production was a turning

point in the life of the Parvatiya Kala Kandra. It was remarkable in the sense that
for the ﬁrst time a production of this dimension was mounted capturing the essence
of the cultural heritage of the people of Uttarakhand. It was also remarkable in the
sense that stalwats of Delhi stage like Vinod Nagpal and V. M . Badola performed

in the production alongwith many fresh entrants to theatre and another eminent
theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directed it. The script, as of earlier, was that of
Shri Briendra Lal and musical score was that of Mohan Upreti. Since this event the
Kendra did not looked back. Every year it has taken up a new ballad of the region
and given it a dramatic form. The wide spectrum of the f'olklores of the region that
have been covered are given below in the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES

Founded as a Registered Society.

1968

Uttarakhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.
Repeat Performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.

1969
1969

-

Uttarakhand Folk Songs and Dances, AIFACS Hall, Inaugurated by
Late Smt. Indira Gandhi.

1969-1971३

Repeat Performances at Rashtrapati Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, Gandhi
Darshan, USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditorium, INT Hall, and

Doordarsan.
1971 4

.

1972-76

»

I.C.C.R sponsored performances in Sikkim.
Repeat Performances for Delhi-based Uttarakhand people at Ramakrishnapuram, Lodi Colony, Talkatora Stadium, Aiwane Galib, Red

Fort (Kumaoni Battalion III-Regiment), Tin Murti Bhawan Mavlankar
Hall, TV recording for New Year Programme.
Repeat Performances for Uttarakhand people based in Bombay,
Jaipur, Kotdwar. Rishikesh and Moradabad.

1976

Uttarakhand Folk Songs and Dances, Kamani Hall, graced by the
then President of India Late Shri Fakruddin Ali Ahmed, on the
occasion of Jawahar Lal Nehru Birthday celebration.

