9

GANGNATH JAAGAR
Among the ritualistic forms prevalent in Kurnaon Garhwal, Jaagar constitues a class
by itself. The dances related to this are intimately connected with ghost-worship or
worship of gram devta or devies. Mostly they are exorcist in nature, and are held in
the region to drive away the evil spirits. There is a lot of singing, dancing and percussion playing in this form—Hurka and 'I'hali (Bronze plate) being the main
instruments. Some of these like the Ganghath Jaagar also enact the account through
typical gestures and movements. Gangnath falls among those gram devatas who were
the victims of a caste-bound society. These characters perished at the hands of a
conservative social order, but were tranf'ormed into demi-gods to be invoked and
worshipped in these Jaagars. It is a strange kind of poetic justice done into them by
the community.
The present stage adaptation of the original balled ‘Gangnath’ has been named
‘Bhana-Gangnath’ because Bhana, the leading female character emerges as a
deﬁant Bhana, who curses the existing society and its moral code which are still
strong. Certain new characters have also been introduced by Shri B.L. Shah in the
story in order to give it a proper dramatic structure. Before intermission the main
episodes are as follows:

PRELUDE AND THE RITUAL
Episode—J
Gangnath appears as a mendicant going out in search of Bhana, his beloved. Bhana
too is waiting for him. They both introduce themselves alongwith their problems to
the audience.
Episode—II
Gangnath, on his way to Almora, reaches the forest of Devidhura where Latua
Masan, the evil spirit, regns supreme. The viilagers including travellers are mortally
afraid of him. Gangnath tames him with his power which he has acquired from .
Gorkahnath, his spiritual mentor. This combat between the two is witnessed by
Bhagirath and Jasodhar, who while on their way to Alrnora for getting some land
two traders, from the powerful Dewan, are resting at Devindhura. They also
overhear the dialogues between Gangnath and the village belles who, have come
there to collect grass. The traders come to know about the secret of Gangnath’s

है power which lies in the belt around his waist, andthe scaraf tied on his forehead,
given to him by his Guru Gorakhnath. All sing to Gangnath’s glory.
Episode—III
In Almora, the doors of a famous temple of Bhairabnath are blocked by a huge

piece of rock, There is an announcement that the— king would be visiting the temple
the next morning for worship. He would also inaugurate the Holi festival. The

announcement further proceeds to say that whoever succeeds in removing the rock

