10

entire town
would be rewarded ten gold coins, but if the rock was not removed, th?
At that
would be ﬁned. All try, ﬁrst one-by-one, and later collectively, bUt fallby

with ease. Everyone 18 taken
rnovent, Gangnath arrives. He removes the rock
surprise by this feat.
Episode—IV

and requests him to stay there for
The king comes for worship. He praise Gangnath
All come to participate in
sometime and preach. He also invites him to his palace.
gets restive, as Bhana, for
the religious festivity kirtan and leave. But Gangnath
Bhana’s close friend Gopi also
whom he has come, does not turn up. Meanwhile
himself busy in reading palms
comes to participate in the kirtan. Gangnath keeps
and horoscopes. waiting all the time for Bhana.
Episode—V
has a child to look
Bhana resides out of the town boundaries as an outcaste. She
of his accompliafter. Gopi tells Bhana about the mendicant giving full description
her ﬁrst meeting
shment. Bhana gets suspicious and tells Gopi about Gangnath and
with him.
Episode—VI
the Nandadevi
(FLASH-BACK): Bhana, the daughter of Diwan, who is a widow visits
from him.
fair and falls in love with Gangnath, the prince of Doti. She conceives
her,
Her parents and the entire community torture her, and ﬁnally ex-communicate
throwing her out of the village, where she stays waiting for Gangnath.
INTERMISSION
Episode—VII
Gangnath is busy with his kirtan, when Diwan visits him. He shows his palm to him.
While Gangnath reads his palm, the Diwan immediately realises his folly as many a
turth about his life and character would be disclosed. He withdraws his hand and
leaves the place. Everyone is puzzled by his behaviour. Gangnath keeps himself busy
with his routine.
Episode—VIII
The two traders, who had seen Gangnath’s f'eat at the Devidhura f'orest, reach Almora
Near the Bhairabhath temple they are attracted by the singing which is going on
there. They recognise Gangnath and decide to tell the Diwan about him and his missionto take Bhana away. They also express their opinion that Gangnath may be a
foreign spy in the garb of a mend icant.
Episode—IX

Jasodhar and Bhagirath inform Diwan about the real personality of Gangnath and
1115 1111551011. Dlwan, a shrewd character hatches a conspiracy to do away with him
. shares. his plans with his
८ trusted lieutenants N arot a m, Ba 1 ad
and1m
_ u_ tt_ , Sheru w a and

