acceptancespeech

SARASWATI SAMMAN AWARD
by Vijay Tend u | kar

7 ’

” Much before embarking upon the road to literature, even before giving expression to a

i

word,I had learnt a trick — you can get anything you want simply by crying. Only your
voice shuld be very loud, in fact it should be aggressive. People will be forced to pay attention
. _ ' {to you; Soon enough I realized one more thing — it may not always be necessary to shout and

' make noiseii-You get rewarded ifyou act according to the wishes of others — not be every time

‘ ३ but often“: , ,. _
हेहुकीहुँछाऱरेहैदृहूँ1ऱपादृठ्ठेहूँड्डा011 do come across a person who has seen through your game. Then you do

...:r5itit”gain anything, but nor do you lose. You get a pat, “How clever he is, he is acting.” It is
३ also.added, “See, he knows how to please others. ” Obviously it was not the age to understand
the import of these words. But a man acquires cleverness before he learns to give expression
to himself. With time, this inherent cleverness grew. I realized that an examination can be
passed with minimum efforts. Ifyou keep clearing the examinations, parents do not normally
trouble you. They might only lament the fact that you are not able to secure as good marks
as others managed. Once, but I do not know when exactly, this thought also occurred to me

that it was not at all necessary to study, that an examination could be passed without studying
also. By the time this fact sunk in I had finished my studies and the 1942 movement virtually
put an end to that. “Put an end” meant the end to school education only; the education to
learn to live continued, in fact, more vigorously.

We achieved Independence in 1947. The sequence of events after that happened fast.
Changes came at an amazingly rapid speed. It appeared that the ground under our feet was
slipping and much that was expected to survive got devastated. This happened not only in
our country but the world over.
Just as a man departs and leaves behind his shadows, values disappeared leaving

meaningless rituals behind. They had lost their basis and we were left with nothing but
hurdles. We did not know how to deal with them. Then came the alienation between values
and conduct. The former were turned into tales and we kept on relating the latter
to
circumstances. But this too was not very easy and it created problems. Consequently,
we

suffered. Struggle was inevitable in our efforts to seek support for our actions and we had to
resort to various manipulations in order to maintain some sort of balance in life.
We were smart alecs and many amongst us had reached the top during this
struggle. I
am one of the representatives of these generations. I grew up witnessing all
these, in fact, I
lived with it. It is not that we were the only people concerned. Much more happen
ed in this
era. And it is that which is of real importance. The last few years saw Imperia
lism fading
away, governments collapsing and vital changes in the thinking
of people. There were

no
. readyrnade anSwers and questions became merely complexities of
problems and situations.

While'iithi's churning was on, we, like Chaplin in a film, instead of tacklin
g them head
.gon', kept dilly—dallying these issues by our native shrewdness
and the skill in trying to be

- Clever. It‘Waséa facade that we were going ahead while the fact was that we were
sinking in
the quagmi
re.

;

,Where were we going we did not know, because we were not
moving at all.
”Ihe ground underneath was Slipping. The process is still on and no
solution is in sight.
GharIiefChaplin used to dodge everyone in his characteristic
attire and manner — our
\
g ३ eration did the same and ailoided the issue‘s. While Chaplin
used to come out in a more
' ३
c
and peaceful/world whiCh‘ had answers to his every query, the
situation is far more

