alarming for us. However, we also tried to d

»e mad race started with no end.

We are still without a direction and the rat rac
g on relentlessly. You are honouring a
figure who represents that class and generatior . The work which has been selected for the
Saraswati Samman is related to this generation and era. It is not the story of any victory, it is
an admission of defeat and intellectual confusion. It gives expression to a deep rooted malaise
and its pains. Value, victory and fame are normally honoured. The ambition and the will to
Evin of tlcilose who jump into the fray with the aim of winning and come out on top are

onoure .
This is the reason why this award leaves me disturbed and confused. I am wondering as
to what I have really done to get this honour. It is true that I have written what I have gone
through and what I have seen in others around me. I have been true to all these and I have

not cheated my generation. I did not attempt to simplify the matters and issues for the
audience while presenting my plays, though it would have been easier to do so through such
a medium. Sometimes my plays jolted the society and I was punished. I faced this rnanfully
but never regretted my creation. I was adamant as it is an old habit with me to do what I am

asked not to.
I could not have written anything other than what I wrote. That is exactly what I saw
and I do not have as a writer the capability to write what I cannot perceive. It was not a sense

of purpose or duty which forced me to write. The itch to write whatever it may be is the real
reason for my writing. The fact is that I could not have done anything other than writing. If

that were possible I would have become a painter or a musician or a chartered accountant or
a management expert. I do feel jealous of them for different reasons.
It was my fate to be a writer and perhaps what and how I write was also a part of that
fate: Otherwise I do not know why after my decision not to write a play again after my ﬁrst
attempt at it flopped I kept on writing plays. I was lambasted for a play and had to undergo
great mental tension for the same and yet I wrote another play which stirred a hornet’s nest.
Fate, I think. I do not ﬁnd another answer to that. As a part of this Fate, I may refer to a

coincidence. For the play for which you are honouring me with the Saraswati Samman today
I was once insulted when at a function a chappal was hurled at me. Perhaps it was the fate of
the play to have earned both this honour and that chappal and I as its creator respect both
the verdicts.
Some people think I have been given this award rather early. Their point ofview is that
I am not that old to receive such a prestigious award since these are given when a writer is
past his prime. My creative urges have not yet betrayed me. Casting my eyes all around I still
get inspiration to write. I do not suffer from Parkinson’s disease or cataract and so there is no
hindrance to writing. I must, therefore, warn you that I will continue to write even after
receiving this Samman.

In the end I would like to share a thought with you. The rapid progress of the electronic
media and its acceptance has alarmed many people. They are of the opinion that literature
and art will not be able to survive. I think man’s quest to know/and express himselfwill push
him to his language and literature. These two, definitely will change in the future but the
desire to acquire knowledge and an outlet for it will overcome all such hurdles. The battle of
survival will see man going against some ofhis traits and characteristics in the coming times.
It will be a grim struggle every day. Chaplin and his antics to survive fascinated me and

Mickey Mouse with his indomitable, courage will represent the man of the twenty first
century. A writer is not a social scientist, nor is he an astrologer. He does not strive for
answers on a mathematical basis. He only perceives or feels and this makes him restless.
And I have the same restlessness today.

