@XCGIDISﬂom

meiorvvardtoGolpltha
by Vijay Tendulkar

. . . even today I do not feel that I have understood the poems (of Namdeo Dhasal) completely.
But now I understand it a little better, infact I even like it more then I did earlier. I have given up

the attempt to experience Dhasals world to make sense of his poems. Now I use his poems as a
bridge that gives me access into his world. The brief, but real venture into his world, that he allowed

me the access to, has helped me a lot in this process. Where the boundaries of my bourgeois world
end, the world or what people from my world call 'No Man's Land' begins! This is the world of
Namdeo Dhasal’s poetry. It is the world known to the Mumbaikar’s as Golpitha.
This is the world of days that are nights of empty or half filled stomachs, of death defying
perseverance, of tomorrow's anxieties, of the human body that remains after all feeling and modesty

have died. It’s the world of overflowing gutters and young diseased bodies huddled together in
deathly cold, by its side. It’s a world of the unemployed, of beggars, of pick—pocketeers of dons, and
pimps, of durgas and crucifixes, of mossy walls with peeling paint, and a hundred Rajesh Khannas

hanging on those walls. It’s a world of creaking cots spread with dope, and an innocent child asleep
beside it, of the tuberculotic chowkidar of the brothel who works nights, so that the sleeping child
can grow up to become a respectable human being. It’s a world of hijdas, of cheap liquor factories,

of spiritual qawwalis and of the warm and sticky blood that can flow any time like water. It’s a
world of steaming .hot tea, of smuggling rings, of unsheathed knives, and of the drug barons.

In 1943, in the Godi area, of Mumbai, a man called Nanga Baba began to scream,

“come with me, the world is coming to an end, come with me. The hungry, the poor, the diseased,
the deformed, anyone who cared to believe him, ran after him, for their lives, were saved

because he brought them to Golpitha. Or so the story claims. There was a big blast in the Godi
area. The Nanga Baba brought them to Golpitha, to Dhasal's Golpitha, and saved their lives.
Here even the leprosy ridden bodies can be bought for a price,—by the roadside, sex with such
bought bodies abounds, beside these copulating bodies, infants wail a deathly wail, whores sing
from their heart to lure customers. From where no one can run to save their lives, and if they try to

they inevitably end up at the same place, that place is Golpitha. A place where—empathy,
forgiveness, peace, have absolutely no access.
Dhasal says that every season here is heartless or a sense of the heart upturned. This is the
world that surrounds Dhasal, the blood that runs in his veins is of a rnahar — a dalit. Those who
suffered the curse of untouchability, like a sacred wound, those that preserved this curse, along with

their untouchable shadows, only in the core of their silent beings, were his ancestors. He is the
descendant of these very ancestors. He could have been born, he could have lived in the same way
that they did, but one mahar was born different. He promised himself that he would change his
world. He gave his subservient, weakened world the power of anger. Anger is a sign of being
human, he etched this sign in the hearts of his generation. The untouchables converted to
Buddhism, the constitution freed them from slavery. But in the obscurity of the villages, their fate

remained the same. Arnbedkar passed away .The chain of exploitation, torture, humiliation,

