abuse, did not end. Discrimination continued, as it had for centuries. The wounds did not heal.

Namdeo Dhasal ‘5 poetry has a very intimate, and unbreakable relationship, with these wounds. An
intense desolation, and anger erupts through every word of his poetry like volcanoes. This young

poetry that wants to be at once angry and tender, is at many places singed by internal, all
consuming fire. It revels in the repulsive and gory details of the life around it. It ﬂaunts them,
remorselessly. Suddenly, details that ﬂaunt the vulgarity of life, openly, no longer remain superficial.
They’ become eruptions of a well spring of anger that continuously ﬂows within him, and becomes

poetry. Many strange colloquial words flow through it, one can see the novel .use of known words,
and this usage is carried out with great amount of self conﬁdence.

At his hands, the language nurtured, and so loved by the intelligentsia, is ruptured with an
arrogant heartlessness. Its purity gets adulterated with his deliberate usage of vulgarity. This is his

creative need to get to the essence of what he wants to express. Even while doing so one does get
glimpses of his awareness of the power and the beauty that conventional usage has to offer. The
unbearable torture of living becomes poetry. This poetry begins to hurl the embers of its anger at
society with a fearlessness that makes many claims. It refuses to be another ‘traveller in the dark.‘ It
evokes the ‘thousand burning suns in the bloodstream’ to (burn down the cities’. The claims are a
proof of a rare quality, the quality of being an honest, apolitical rebel. I am overwhelmed by this
honesty. More commendable is the fact that there is no sense of propaganda to his writing. The
need to rebel comes from the very core of his being, its not superﬁcial. It is not coloured by any

political bias, not even for the sake of poetry. The need to express is more basic, more fundamental
and therefore completely unadulterated. It asks, which ass is called freedom? It is decisive about the

actions that need to be taken and can proclaim that mass rapes should happen on every dais, the
literary organisations, schools, colleges, hospitals, airports, should be destroyed.
It has already destroyed all bridges that lead to a compromise, and has heartily pledged to raze
the establishment to the ground. Its almost as if Dhasals poetry longs for a last battle that will

decide everything once and for all. Even the momentary desolation that is expressed in longing is
vibrant with energy. Even the desolation seems like the momentary tiredness of a gigantic creativity.
Its not the wail of defeat, its a battle cry. Everything, even love, separation, the momentary bouts of
meaninglessness, the tales of woe, or of detachment, are all fired by the ﬂaming spirit of rebellion.
Its this tinge of the rebellious, that attracts me the most. He is not the first poet to represent a
society that has been subjugated for ages. He is not even the first talented poet to represent this class
and caste. But he surely is one of the few dalit poets, who refuses to let the contemporary bourgeois
mind inﬂuence his expressivity. He has the genius to keep the essence of his poetry rooted firmly in
the world that it ﬂowers in. There is never any intention of propaganda, nor any need to be a
sensationalist. His effort to express is always honest, pure and deep rooted. So far he has managed to
do all this unerringly. If I say that many a times I have been reminded ofTukarams’ Abhangas.
While reading his poems, no one should think that I am saying it due to a formal obligation to

praise his work. It is not my intention to compare the spiritual context ofTukarams’ Abhangas with
Dhasals poems, but I see a strong similarity where the spontaneous, brazen, angry expression of

thoughts is concerned.

I have no idea what Dhasal’s future holds for him. I have seen poets, and writers, from his class
whose initial works seemed quite promising, but these poets eventually became the bourgeois
themselves or naive, wordy romantics in the wrong sense. Their creativity lost its soul and became
powerless. They lived off old fame. I hope that Dhasal does not meet that same fate.
— Translated by Sonalee Hardekar

