FR 0 M 5 AP 01' AR A
When one thinks of a traditional form in Gujarat the one name which
crops up in most minds is 'Bhavai'. A sad but true fact that other forms remain
unrecognised from lack of exposure.
Dang was actually discovered for us by Mr. Kalpesh Dalal and Utpalaben.
These friends are associated with "Aavishkaar" an organization with a clear
objective to preserve the wonderful legacy of tribal folklore and protect it from
the invasion of ”modern civilization".
They had been surveying Dang District for a period of 5-6 years. Utpala
suggested that it would be interesting to undertake an untapped area.
I travelled with them to Dang to see for myself and must admit was
completely fascinated. Hills which go on endlessly to merge with the horizon,
lush forests resounding with character, strong gusts of wind that leave you
breathless and above all a serenity that we disturbed city dwellers will always
crave for. Saputara it had to be.
All adrnistrative negotiations turned out fruitful and for this we
acknowledge the help rendered by Mr. C. S. Meena, Commissioner of Youth
and Mr. J. P. Gupta the District Collector.
The llnd year students arrived at the Sahyadri cottages on the 1 st of
the New Year. As much as one longed to lose oneself to the beauty of the
surroundings it was important to keep in mind that much work was to be
done.
The translation of Brecht's 'The Good Woman of Schezwan‘ kept
arriving in batches. Meanwhile arangernents were made for the students to
visit nearby villages. We are grateful to Mr. D.l<. Parrnar for providing us with
a hall for rehearsals. The students however preferred rehearsing outdoors.
It was in Baripada that we first encountered the Madalayas. Their
performance was simply hilarious. What is most striking about these perforners
is their abounding energy and freedom to make digs at faults in the system
through the diverse characters they play.
As our rehearsals began to get more serious, we had to construct a set.
We were helped grealty by Mr. Flam Kurnar (District Forest Officer) who
provided us with bamboo. His kindness went further in providing us with
accornodation in the forest guest house when we visited Mahal.

At Chakhal we were lucky to witness the following traditional forms.
Thalivadan - As the name suggest it is playing or producing music from Thali,
a metal plate of Bronze. Thalivadan is basically narration of stories. In a bronze
thali a hollow stick is affixed with the help of wax. A team of two players work
together. One is the main singer and story teller and the accompanist give
him support by assisting him. Generally stories of Kings, Gods and Shravan
are very popular. Thalivandan is performed in all seasons.

Madalaya - Madalaya is music and dance together with theater. A group of
about 12 to 18 persons performs Madalya. The madal players dance sing

