and play the Madal - a big Dhol simultaneously. A separate team of actors
perform skits related to the Dangis daily lives. These 'Vesh' as they call it

come straight from their lifestyle hence win hearts instantly. Madalay is
performed by men only.
Thakkarya - All dances, whether tribal or folk are realted to either seasons or
festivals. Thakarya Nritya, the dance of the monsoon is done at night. The
group divides itself into two segments. One team sings and dances wearing
ghungroos on both the legs, while the other team sits on the floor sings and
plays the Dholak and Tin Dabba. As the rythrn increases the speed of
dancing also increases. Being a very vigorous dance it is perforned by
men. The dancers exhibit acrobatics as well. The songs are generally
about Gods or popular myths.
Dangi Kahalya Nritya - Dangi Nritya the favourite dance of the Dangis is
perforned by men and women together. lt can be perforned at any place by
anyone irrespective of their age, sex or tribe
The musical accompaniments are sur, Kahaliya and Dholak which do
not belong to the region but are brought from Maharashtra. Men and women
in the typical tribal way make a chain with their hands and dance for hours.
This they do in exquisite harmony continually changing the chala 'steps' even the colours of the costumes are not typical Dangi. Bandhni has
become very popular among organized troupes. This dance is performed
throughout the year on various occassions like marriages, Holi and Diwali.
We owe a very special thanks to Mahesh and his family members for
their largess and warm hospitality at Chankhal.
We are also grateful to Mr. Kathiya - Manager at Toran hotel, Mr. Patel
the catering manager - who made sure we had enough mouth watering Gujrati
Thalis to sustain us. Their staff - Mr. Ram Das, Pandu, L. K. Thakaray Manohar
for providing us with fresh sheets, clean towels and hot water which
made a huge difference.

Our gratitude is also due to Smt. Poornirna Pakvasa who runs the
'Ritambhara Vishva Vidyapeeth' for allowing us to do our first perfornance at
herschooL

It takes years to understand a certain way of life and we'd barely began
our journey when it was time to return. This production therefore is a
humble attempt to imbibe the vivacious and untiring spirit of the Dangs simple, humble and good looking people.

For each of us the experience

will have been different. We have tried to understand the sound patterns,
movements, hopes and fears of a people who walk on a hard earth. The two

Madaliyas - Govind Dada and Nanu Bhai have also made us sensitive in
appreciating simple things.

I enjoyed working with this batch immensely and realise that children
will always be lovable but also need help to grow. I can only hope that
somewhere down life's winding road they will recall Saputara and smile.

If we have missed anyone they must know that we've been equally
grateful to them.

