Synopsis आँ" The Scenes
Scenel

The Madalyas go to heaven and find the gods squabbling among themselves.
it is decided that three of the Gods will go to earth and look for a good person.

They arrive and meet Banta the water seller who leads them to Laoohi's humble
abode. After having spent the night there they give her six thousand rupees for her
hospitality.

Scene II
Lacchi has started a tea shop which however begins to turn into a boarding
house harboured by parasites. All these people begin to exploit Laoohi's willingness
to help.
Scene Ill
The Gods appear in Banta's dream and ask him to keep an eye on Lacchi and

leave continuing their search of a good person.
ScenelV
Lacchi becomes Laxman Dangi and throws out the parasites. He also

establishes a rapport with the village policeman to protect his business.
Scene V

An aspiring youth Bouriya is trying to commit suicide Lacchi appears on the
scene and a relationship begins to flower between the two.
Scene V I

The Gods appear before Banta asking about Lacchi's affairs and are pleased
to find that she is in love

Scene V l l

Gafoor the barber beats Banta and reveals his love for Lacchi. Banta is
encouraged to go to court but nobody is willing to be a witness Lacchi decides to
give a false witness. Bouriya's mother arrives asking Lacchi to help with finances
to make Bouriya's dream a reality.
Scene V | l I

Sheetala confides in Laxman and reveals her dislike for Bouriya's and Lacchi's
relationsip. Bouriya arrives and Laxman is shocked to find out that Bouriya does
not actually love Lacchi. As Laxman she decides to get to Lacchi married to the
barber.
ScenelX

The Madalyas go to Lacchi's marriage which breaks up because she can't
come up with the money.
Scene X
An emotionally and financially broken Lacchi is about to sell her shop to pay
her debts. Gafoor offers to help her out, the plot thickens because Lacchi discovers
that she is pregnant. She decides to play Laxman once more and begins a new
business.
Scene XI

Bouriya's mother is very pleased that Laxman Dangi has made a better man of
her son. Meanwhile everyone thinks that Lacchi is missing. Sheetala however
knows her troubles and reassures her. Bouriya arrives to find out that Lacchi IS
pregnant and is concerned for her. He becomes suspicious about Laxman and
begins to challenge his position in the factory.
Scene X l ।

The two Madalyas narrate how the police arrived at the shop and found Lacchi's
clothes there.
Sce ne X | I I

all
In the final court scene all truths are revealed and Lacchi is proved beyond
r
doubt to be the good person.
३1-३ड्डेरग Exiting r J

'WW-‘stm .
'

\

l

लिनुरट्वेवृ'चूद्रुल्यठर्द्ध

