1 ‘Today’s generation does not see

.~> Partition the way I do. They do
.
not know its consequences’
Artist श्याठेगिस्था 1९1131१11300 turning 90, why I 947 recurs in hiswork and buying a Husainfor Rs 50

vmniiiirritii

।३

ne ot‘thc last sun/Wing members of the
Progressive/mistsGroup. Krislien Khanna
turned 90 onJuly 5 but is still an artist at
workin his basementstud to in Ciirpaon. For
years. heivas themost underratedmaster of
Indian art. while his friends MF IIusain and VS
Gartonde shonein the limelight Hisart ranges across
many references, from the trauma of I’artinon tothe
grandiose bandwallahs. Each ofhis subjects still turn
up on hiscanvases andhis older works fetch Iakhs at
auctions In this mtervtew. helooks backat the 1960s
when hequrt his Job ata bankto become a full»time
artist. his ﬁrst exhibition. and why hedoesn't find
time to meet his friends. Excerpts:
Congramlatlons on turning90.You alsohavean
ongoing soloat Grosvenor Galleryin tendon.
When theBond Began to Play.
Thank you We did notdo mucluustasmall thing
where everyone inthe family turned up. Yes, the exh ibition I it Lon don features the batid wal Iahs: the
gallery wantedtire to paintthem so I did.
Couldyou alt: us backto the 19413"! When
World War I] brokeout. you were in Britain.
weren‘tyou? Atthe ImperialService (alley In
Windsor.
Ihad been at theschool for fout—and- ahalfyears
when the war brokeout and ttiy patentsasked tire
toteturti. but I didn't want to.I was prepati rigfor
all sorts of thing . 1 was captain of the Iencitigteam
andwas hoping towin the publicsdiool
championship.Then rtty headrtlastertold trie that
thelast convoy from Liverpool to Indiawas leaving.
andI hadto board it. Iwas 17 then It took three
months byship. Once Iwas back iti Multan. |j oitied
college. I was I3 when Ihad goneto England.I
coul dn'tspeak ध1"11, Urduor Punjabi.I onlyspoke
English Soon. rrry parentsrtioved to Iahareand I
startedworking at apress there. WhenPartition
happened] hadtakenaweekoﬁ’. ' '
’
would setde downBut then we hadto leave
Lahoreand moveto Sirnla I neverreturned
Sincethen. you have tinned to the Partition
innumerable ﬁrm in yourwork. Howdifferent
Ihaven't ﬁnished the series on Partition, it is
sortiethirig that will continue to be apart of nrywork.
When I show Partition some peoplecome up with
stupidquestions 'I'odays generation does not see
Partition the way I do. theydo not know its consequences. they have no friends or familythere.
'
is adifferent country for them. but Iyew
up there I have friends there. I‘ve visited Pakistan
more than ﬁve timessince. 50I‘ll continue to depict
Partition iri rrryan. rriaybenot sell it because people

[Usually] thebiggerthe picture. thertiore expensive
it is. which is nonsense.
(add you tell us abouthow youcame to quit
yourjobat क्या Bank in 196] and become a
full-time artist?You had
1‘
years. Had youconsidered becoming a
wotssional
ore
I had thought about it. but the financial coristraints nrled it out. I was kind of moonlighting. I
wentfor evening classes atMayo Sd‘iool ofArt. And
l wasveryhappy atthe bank. It wasa wonderfuljob.
Grad
. however.I foundit difﬁcultto pursueboth
professions which is when I quit. 0n rtty last dayat
work. [MI-'1 Husain. [VS] Gaitonde andBa! Chhabta
were at the door, waiting for me to comeout. The
moment Icame out Ba! Gihabratook mytie on.saying Iwon'tneed it anymore We wentout. had teatogdier tocelebrate and then dinnerat a placecalled
The Coronation Durbar. Raza threw aparty in Paris;
thethall wantedme toquit.
Ihad sortie mo . Rs 25,000savedover 14 years
But Iwas conﬁdent Iwould do welL One had to put
in alot ofliard work. mudimore thanat the bank.
My ﬁrst work was sold to (nuclearphysicist) Homi
Bhabha througi IIusain.Once meball was set tolling.

there wereinternational exhibitions as well. Kumar
Galleryin Delhiused to hireartists ona montth ba-

sisWith a stipend of Rs 500.in returnfor awork of
an.When Tyeb [Mehta] returned front London. I re-

,1३८…८

,… १,

, , '

Youfamoust drew क्रि०हुसे० da Vind‘smum
Suppa-wlrerryou tune seven.

.

he bougllithome :smallprint of it from Milan. He
was exp aimng t e concept to us. how it de itts

क्या or betrayal. When hesaw me drawﬁton
paper, he wasveryim pressedChi Idhoodmemories
[gave a strong impression, so the theme kept corri-

A

timeat an exhlbItlon In 1949‘!
um“
A series of events led to my carwas reaching the
Bombay ArtSociety show organised bySB Palsikar.
My wifewas ona ship when she met someonewho
knew Palsikar.and wrotea letter. asking himto soc
my workOne day. Palisikarjust arrived at myplace
and tookaway a small canvas that depicted crowds
reading the newspaperalter Gandhiir'sassassi nation
and put it up Inthe exhlbitiort Soon. I was inducted
intothe Progressive Artists'Group byIIusai’n.

ing back to me. In 11w last Bite, I drew allof us —
Do youmeet SH Han and Ram Krrmar non/IAll
olyouare In Delhi.

०o o

.

We used tobe neighbours years ago. and met

'on_my '35!day at me bank "क्या

every day. Now the distances are longand going to

(:3me and Ba] Chhab'a were at
‘
. .
the d001, Walllllg{01'
to come

Poet them means spendingthe wholeday away
torn work. We talkon the phone. We exchanged
marry letter once.which I have kept carefully. I also

or it We went out for dinner. Raza
.
.
threw a PartyIn Pan-11119had all

or at it usains an

wanted meto धागा'
.. .

दृ

. . .
Manjit Bawa. Akbar Padanisee. FN Souza gathered
around aartist-like Iiusain ina dhaba. reminiscent
of out several discussions. We inspired each other
and were also critical of each other. They were all
good artists. and greatpeople as well.

Whatledmyour

stipend.and not Rs 250that he was offering

My Etherintroduced melon-211m

fZin'IKamji‘a ;

DownMEMORY LANE
Krishen Khanna at hisstudio In Guipon. The artist worksthrough theday, and is revisiting
old mans in his newcanvases

Meg-ﬁg”!Winks- क्या'ष्ण0M WW‘DW-SM"
Padamsee. one ofhis ﬁnest
works Ibought myﬁrstiiusarn forRs 50.wheti Iwas

still atGrindlays. WhenI quit. hejaked that theywere
all committing suicide. because I was the onlyOne
with a steady income.

