A note on the play

Uncle Vanya is a play about beauty and its transience.
About the conflict between impulses—the impulse to destroy

and the impulse to create.
The scenes of the play are placed within the framework of
the arrival of the Professor Serebryakov and his wife Yellena
to their country estate, and their departure in the end. The
short space of time in between the two carries the essential
drama of the human condition. The tensions of aversion and
attraction between characters and the uncertainty of their

relationships is subtly revealed to us in the country estate of
the retired Professor. The estate is cared for by Sonya, his
daughter by his ﬁrst marriage, and his brother-in law, Vanya.
They have worn themselves out for the Professor because of
their blind faith in his “genius”. Disillusionrnent, however,
sets in. The arrival of the the Professor and his charming

wife irnbues the atmosphere with indolence and empty talk.
Vanya falls in love with

Yellena and his bitterness towards
Sonya, too, feels the impact of the

the Professor increases.
new situation when the district doctor Astrov, whom she loves
from childhood, also fails in love with Yellena. The crisis is

aggravated when Vanya learns that his brother-in-law, for
whom he has slaved for years, intends to oust him from the
estate by selling it. In a great outburst of violence Vanya
shoots the Professor but the shots go off the mark. The
Professor and रं Yellena decide to leave the estate. Farewells
take place, and all is back to ‘normal’.
Yet this seeming normacy enhances the subtle internal

changes that have taken place within the characters.

Their

creative impulses are crushed by their addiction to the safe
routine of every day life. Dulled by the boredom of their lives,

they are incapable of ﬁnding the “new life" that they dream of.
Melancholic resignation sets in. The complexity of character
relationships are sharpened by the poignant sound of the

storm, the lonely tapping of the night watchman, silences and
rhythmic often repetetive dialogues.

