NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

(कि

The Repertory Company of the National School of
Drama was formed on an experimental basis by
Shri E. Alkazi, who played a major role in nurturing
and expanding the Company when he was Director
of the School (1962-77). In the beginning, the
Company consisted of only four actors. It later

REPERTORY COMPANY

In 1994 the Company started a new activitypresentation of fringe performances consisting of
dramatic readings of world classics as well as new
plays, enactment of poetry and other experiments
in form, content and presentation of theatre.

expanded into a larger group of actors, musicians
and technicians, mainly graduates of the School.

Acting Chief of Repertory

Initially, in 1964, the late Om Shivpuri led the

Company

LN. Kaushal

Business Manager

A.C.Gandhi

Sound Technician

S.N. Dasgupta

Wardrobe Incharge

Gursharan Kaur

Workshop Incharge

Abdul Hakim

Company and later in 1977 Shri Manohar Singh
was appointed the first Chief of the Company.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a
variety of plays ranging from stylised musicals
through realistic contemporary works of Indian
drama to translations and adaptations of foreign
language plays.

Accounts

O.P. Sagar

Eminent directors from within the country and
abroad have worked with the Company in the

PA to Chief

C.D. Tewari

past years.

Box office

Ramesh

Apart from performing in Delhi, the Company
tours extensively all over India and has also made
successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal,
and Mauritius.

As part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations the
Company toured extensively and organised the
Ranga Yatra Theatre Festival in 1991. It also put
up a special exhibition, Ranga Yatra, designed by

Shri Bansi Kaul. The work of the National School
of Drama Repertory Company since its inception
is depicted through photographs, models,

jewellery, costumes, etc. in this exhibition. It has
been on view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay,
I’une, Goa and Bangalore as well.

In December-January 1992-93, the Repertory
commemorated Mohan Rakesh, the celebrated
playwright, twenty years after his demise. The
Repertory organised a major festival of all his
plays and dramatic adaptations of his short stories.
It was a significant, major event in theatre.

In December 1993, the Repertory participated in
the First Hindi Sarnmelan at Mauritius with
performances of three of Mohan Rakesh’s plays:

Aashad Ka Ek Din, Aadhe-Adhure and Lehron

Ke Rajhans.

Athwal,

S.R. Yadav, C.P.
Gautam, Tika Ram

Bhaﬁ
Director of the National
School of Drama

Kirti J ai n

