DIRECTOR’ 8 NOTE

कीडे

We can quench our curiosity about the Hindus
and their ancient customs from the records of
Greek and Chinese travellers, or from the
chronicles of Muslim historians; but there is hardly

any account available to us about what the Hindu
natives thought of their guests from abroad - not
even about the Muslims, with whom they coexisted

for so long, and who presided over their destinies
with a supreme coercive power and an aggresive
religious ideology, which could not have been
easily ignored. Nor do we find any account of
philosophical or religious debates with ulernas in
traditional Hindu literature. This is all the more
striking; for Hindu pundits, whatever their other

This brings me to the point of the basic “repertoire
of images” which both India and Europe fabricated
for each other when they came into contact with

one another for the first time. The fact that they
oscillated so wildly from one extreme of
exaggerated praise and admiration to the other of
contempt and rejection, only proves that they

were fantastic images which had very little to do
with reality. Indeed, if anything, the reality itself
was fantasised about to the extent where it became

embarrassing for both to see each other as they
really were and not what they thought they ought
to be. No wonder Max Mueller, with all this

weaknesses, rarely suffered from intellectual

sympathetic insight into India’s traditions, never
bothered to visit the land where they ﬂowered and

humility. When it came to metaphysical
discussions, they conducted them with vigour

land existed for him; it was washed away ages ago

with their Buddhist opponents in the past and
were destined to continue, in a limited manner,
with the Christian missionaries, in the future.
Buddhism posed a challenge quite different from
that of other traditions, both in its origins and its
philosophical content. It was both the “other” and

still survived, for the simple reason that no such
by the waves of history, leaving behind the ruins

which were the only object of his interest and
fascination. Europe, which claimed to have

discovered India’s past, is also to be rightly credited
with abolishing its present-which has changed the
complete trend of Indian theatre.

not the “other”. If Hindu scholars and seers felt

To Marx, it was a moribund culture of outlived

compelled to engage themselves in passionate
intellectual discussions with their Buddhist
counterparts while being the “other”, at the same

feudalism seething with savage gods and dark

time they shared some fundamental concepts of
common reference; the questions of “moksha”
and “nirvana”; of “self”and “nothingness”.

If Islam and Christianity failed to arouse the same

interest or curiosity, it is because they were the
“other” in the absolute sense of the term. Semitic
religions distanced themselves from their

ontological moorings to such an extent that they
lost most of their challenging power for Hindu
traditionalists. So far as Buddhism being a
philosophical threat to Hinduism went, the
“otherness" of it became redundant for Hindus,

and it ultimately disappeared from India. On the
other hand, Islam and Christianity,who, in their
indubitable “otherness” never posed such a threat,
continue to exist as institutionalised religions even

to this day.

superstitions. To Hegel, Indian thought was
reduced to an abstract “dream image”, never

reaching the level of philosophy, which was
regarded as an uniquely European achievement.
And to the first Indian modernist, these Western

institutions were the source of enlightenment which
would bring Indians out of the darkness of their
superstitions, like the present day cosmopolitan
modernists who are more interested in exhibiting
and getting the credit for neo-colonial India. The
depth to which Europe penetrated the urban
middle class psyche is revealed by the fact that the
first issue of one of the “enlightened” Bengali

Journals described itself as an organ of people who
were “Hindu by birth yet European by education .
''
Abhilash Pillai

