MO D ERNITY

कि

When asked how we perceive India, the sensible
answer is to focus on the nation-state. India is
certainly an administrative political unity. More
than this, the notion of India yields no definite

contents. Many adivasis do not consider
themselves Indian, not many dalits, nor many a
cosmopolitan citizen of the world, not to speak of
some people of Kashmir, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, etc.
The only unambiguous thing is that modern India
is a nation-state. On the whole, in spite of the so-

called “criminalisation of politics’ ’, in comparison
with many other countries Indian politics are alive,

dynamic, full of initiatives and follow a more or

less democratic pattern. We are not a dictatorship,

culture. This is why we have in India this peculiar

phenomenon of utilising culture as a means to
strengthen the Republic - which, tellingly enough,
is the policy of dictatorial regimes, although in
India it is not done with dictatorial means.
Culture is the all-encompassing myth at a given

time of a given people. If it is not submitted to a
higher pressure it will create institutions for its
political life. In sum, the political world is a cultural
construct and one of its most important
manifestations.The present nation-state justifies
itself by affirming that the values it represents are
neutral, universal and, thus, supra-cultural.
However, the western archetype

nor a theocracy, notwithstanding political

tendencies in this direction. In spite of many

of “One God,

one Empire, one Church, one Civilisation” has
now turned into “One World Democracy, One

negative features, India is a strong nation-state.

World Market (and Bank), one Science, one
However, the nation-state is an important but

Technology”. The technocratic complex is all-

alien notion. India is not a nation, but a bundle of

powerful. The dominion of the technological world

nations naturally or unnaturally brought together

is such that if we do not accept the status quo we

under the one single State. As a nation-state, it has

may eventually starve, or disappear from the map.

no bright future. New partitions into smaller

Moreover, the astounding achievements of modern

nation-states, have no chance of creating a political

science have been interpreted as the confirmation

order capable of offering an under-structure for
the well-being of the peoples of the sub-continent.
The very concept of the nation-state is a cultural
concept ingrained in a particular culture and within

of the universality of the western model. After so
many centuries of branding the other world-views

a given kosmological myth. In other words, the
theory and praxis of a nation-state is intrinsically
related to what we may call the modern western

as unscientific and mythical, modern India has

uncritically subscribed to the belief in the
universality of the findings of modem science. We
have given absolution to the western scientific

culture, and in no way congenial to the different

cosmology. We are reacting against an unconfessed
inferiority complex, because the “great" indic

cultures of the peoples of the sub-continent.

civilisations were incapable of such definitive

Now, each culture secretes its own political system.
It may be that the traditional cultures were dead

discoveries. We are unaware that the conceptions

of time, space, matter, energy (not to say of life,

already; or perhaps because they were oppressed
they were unable to establish their own political

at loggerheads with the traditional concepts of

systems; or they were simply superseded, over-

classical India.

run or stifled. The fact is that a culture without its

Because of this, the seperation of religion and

own political order hardly deserves the name of

politics is lethal, and their identification suicidal.

world, and reality) underlying modern science are

