THE PLAY

की

“A long time ago, in a land not so far away, lived

from instruments. Electronic instruments have

Laila and Isahaac..” So begins the fable of Laila
and Isahaac which is based on H.H. Munro’s “The
Background”. “Ant-Anant” has been written using
this fable as a base. Laila and Isahaac could belong

been used throughout, reflecting the change in the

to any village in any corner of India and the
setting of “Ant-Anant” is also such. It does not
reﬂect any particular geographical area, but rather
a composite of contemporary India. The play

used stylisation through texture; suggestion, rather
than actuality, and that too mainly through the
use of line. Changing the quality of textures, they

at times look surreal yet relate to present day

explores the transformation of an ordinary man,

fashions and trends.

essentially from a rural background, when he is
thrown into the maelstrom of present day

Since the context of the play is religious, one

quality of listening of people today. I have also
tried to portray violence through the use of
unnatural sound effects. The costume design has

The treatment of the play, therefore, also takes the

theme keeps coming up over and over again. The
basic instincts of a human are connected to
religion—and this very same force changes a
human being into an animal by instigating his
baser violent animal instinct to come to the fore

electronica. It is an exercise in nostalgia, in which
simplicity and order gradually develop into manic
obsession.

form of a journey through theatre styles, ranging

when emergency strikes. As I have mentioned

from Naturalism to the present day pop art culture.

before, of the two religions India gave birth to, one

In other words, it shows Indian theatre and its

journey. Till the 18th century, Indian theatre was

(Hinduism) has now enveloped the country
through these same instincts; the other (Buddhism)

very much its own, but with the imposition of

while originally Indian, now seems totally

English drawing-room theatre, it immediately

foreign—and develops none of these instincts.

became totally different. The very theatre culture
has been affected; whether favourably or adversely

The one has become violent; the other non-violent.

is a decision that is largely personal. Thus, the

play does not necessarily show a chronological
transition, but uses various styles according to the
needs of the various scenes.
Simultaneously, the transitions in Indian culture

are reﬂected through its art and various schools of

painting. The same exploratory journey is
undertaken by the actors, trying to bridge the gap

between the Indian schools of painting, such as
Kangra art, and present day modern art. Raw
colours, which are the basis of art, are not used
today; rather, colour is captured on chemical film,
which gives a totally different look. As any “ism”

originates in painting, I have tried to play with
raw colours as much as possible, these being the
basis of painting - and therefore of any “ism”.

Following from this, lighting has been used to

create different colours to capture the attitude of a
scene. Music has been composed using unnatural
sounds and effects, creating the feeling wanted

The one is inward looking; the other has been
adopted by the world. Both pose questions; both

provide answers. We know where we stand.
Abhilash Pillai

