RAMLILA
Sita Haran was the ﬁrst portion ofRamlila, in its Uttarakhand

style that was attempted by Parvatiya Kala Kendra in 1981. It
was followed by the portion from ‘Pushpa-Vatika’ to ‘Sita-

Swayamver’ in 1 983 . Another attempt was made in 1985 when
major portion covering an abridged version of Ramlila was
presented. The Kendra has had the occasions to present these
portions in India and in 1988, ‘Pushpa-Vatika’ was presented
in Pyongyang. Beijing and Bangkok.

The present effort to present all the major portions in parts, is
aimed at developing further its traditional design in respect
of all its presentational aspects, especially music, acting,
costumes and stage techniques. Owing to lack offunds it could
not be presented in an open air theatre. The current practice
of various Ramlila groups to build a temporary proscenium
theatre in the open air, does not keep its original form intact
which combined a proscenium stage with a rectangular acting
area open in three sides for the audience to sit. Parvatiya Kala
Kendra hopes to do it in future.

Ramlila of Uttarakhand is fully operatic in character. All the
characters develop the story through a plethora of songs sung
in all kinds of musical forms ranging from classical ragas to
bhajans, gazals, quawalis etc. and surprisingly, no indegenous
tunes are used. The languages used too ranges from Brij to

Khari Boli, Hindi and Urdu. It has copiously drawn upon the
rich musical repertoire ofNorth-Indian traditionaltheatre like

Nautanki, Maach, Jatra and Raas. Ramcharitmans is the basis
ofthis Ramlila, but songs in Hindi, Urdu and Hindustani have
replaced most of the original verses of the manas lending it a

theatricality.

The main objective of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, taking up this
venture is to preserve as also to creatively enrich the original
compositions. Another objective is to improve it in all its
presentational aspects so as to enable the modern audiences
to enjoy its music and theatrical charm. The Kendra is

conﬁdent that by making sustained efforts for a sustained
period oftime Ramlila can acquire the status ofa real National

Opera.

