National School of Drama Repertory Company

The Repertory Company of the National
School of Drama was formed on an experimental basis by Shri E. AI kazi, who played a
major role in nurturing and expanding the
Company when he was the Director of the

School (1 962-7 7). l n the beginning, the Cornpany consisted of only four actors. It later
expanded into a larger group of actors, musicians and technicians, mainly graduates of
the School. Initially in 1964 the late Om
Sh ivpu ri was lead i ng the Company a nd | ater
in 1 977 Sh ri Manohar Singh was appointed
the first Ch iefofthe Company. He continued
ti | I 1 985. From 1 988 Ram Gopal Bajaj is the
acting ch ief ofthe company. Over the years
the Repertory has produced a variety ofplays
rangingfrom stylised musicals through realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to
translations and adaptations of foreign language plays.
Eminent directors from within the country

Actors who worked with the Company in the
past include the late Om Shivpuri, Sudha
Sh ivpuri, Meena Wil liams, Mohan Maharishi,
Anjala Maharishi, Ram Gopal Bajaj, Karnlakar
Sontakke, Usha Banerjee, Uttara Baokar,
Manohar Singh, Surekha Sikri, Jyoti
Deshpande, Rajendra Gupta, Rajesh Vivek,
VasantJosaI ka r, Vijay Kashyap, Madhurnal ti
Mehta, Sudhir Kulkarni, Pankaj Kapoor,
Raghuvir Yadav, Vi rendra Rajdan, Raja
Bundela, K.K. Raina, Deepak Kazir, Anang
Desai, G.P. Namdev, DollyAhluwalia, Anila
Singh, Yuvraj Sharma, LalitTewari, Lokendra
Trived i, H imani Sh ivpu ri, Nutan Surya, Hema

Singh, Shrivallabh Vyas, Anupam Shyarn,
Jitendra Shastri and others.
M.K. Raina, Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri,

An upa m Khe r and Ms. Zoh ra Sega l are some
important actors who have been associated
with the repertory in the past for a brief
period.

and abroad have worked with the Company
in the past years.
Apart from performing in Delhi, the Cornpany tours extensively a | ред over ред ndia and has
also made successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, and Nepal.
As part ofthe Si IverJubilee celebrations the
Company toured extensively and organised
Rangyatra Theatre Festival in 1 991 . It also put
up a special exhibition designed by Shri Bansi
Kaul. The work of N .S. D. Repertory Company since its inception is depicted through
photographs, models, Jewellery, costumes
etc. in this exhibition. It has been on view in
Delhi and has travelled to Bombay, Pune,
Goa and Bangalore as well .
In December-January 1 99 2-93, the RepertOry
commemorated Mohan Ra kesh, the celebrated
play wright, twenty years after his demise.
The repertory organised a major festival ofa I ред

Act ing Ch ief of Rep .Corn pa n y
Ram Gopal Bajaj
Business Manager
A.C. Gandhi
Stage Manager
Yashwant Nikose
Sound Technician
S.N. Dasgupta
Wardrobe I ncha rge
Gursharan Kaur
Workshop I ncha rge
Abdul Hakim
Technical & Administrative Staff
0. P. Sagar, C. D. Tewari, C.S. Bhatia,
Rarnesh Athwa I, S. R. Yadav,
Tikaram Bhatt

his plays and dramatic adaptations of his
short stories. It was a significant, major event
in theatre.

Di rector of National School of Drama

K i rt i l a i n

