The Playwright

approached by the Moscow Art Theatre to adapt
for it’s stage his first novel ’The White Cuard’ It
was the play The Days of the Turbins’, the result
of the MAT, that brought Bulgakov fame and
brief fortune. By the end of 1928, Bulgakov could
see his name on three of Moscow’s leading
theatres. Thereafter another vicious circle closed
around him: the imperative to live by his art at
a time when the artist was required to hymn,
without any disturbing wrong, ambiguity or
excess of wit, the Soviet Union's monumental
struggle to industrialize, col lectivize and
transform society under the leadership of Stalin.
From 1927 until his death Bulgakov published
nothing in the Soviet Union.
Bu lgokov died in 1 940, of sclerosis of the kidneys.

Mikhail Bulgakov (1891 -1940)
Mikhail Afanas’evich Bulgakov was born in 1891 .
By birth, culture and temperament he belonged
to the pre-revolutionary order that came to an
end in Russia in 1917. It was in 1920, when he

was not quite thirty that he decided to abandon
his career in medicine and devote himself entirely
to writing. He started his literary career in a

society that had declared obsolate allegiance to

Bu lgakov’s literary resurrection began in 1955,
with the publication of ’The Days of the Turbins’
and ’Pushkin’. During the 19505 and 39605, the
Soviet Union became aware, through
performance and publication, of the extensive
literary heritage left behind for posterity by
Mikhail Bulgakov. Throughout the 19705 and
into the 19805 the steady flow of publications
and critical articles bore witness to a constant
enthusiasm for Bu lgakov’s works among readers
old and new. The second half of the 19805, the
beginning of the period of glasnost and
perestroyka, saw another turning point when a
sudden surge of activity culminated in the new
publication in 1987 of the play Adam and doe
and the story ’Heart of a Dog’. They were

welcomed by the Soviet reading public as their
intellectual probity and astringent humour
corresponded ideally to the new world.

that which he so clearly represented. In 1921,
before his career even started, before he had
more than a few provincial newspaper sketches to his name, Bulgakov was being relegated by
the critics to the ranks of 1former writers’.

By the end of 19805, a literary legend had been
de-mythologized and a literary personality had
emerged, for more complex and interesting than

This implication that he had no place in the new,
post - revolutionary Russia set the tone for the
critical reception that he was to receive
throughout his lifetime. Bulgakov was a ’yesterday
man’, a label that could be, and was, translated
into ’today’s enemy’.

In a poem addressed to his memory, Anna
Akhrnatova paid tribute to the convivial ity of his
company, the clarity of his purpose, the
splendour of his wit, and that ’rnagnificent
contempt’ with which he had borne himself to

By 1924, however, he had begun to accurnu late
a literary reputation, albeit in narrow circles. The
collection of stories ’Diaboliada’ (D’yavoliada)
appeared in 1925, a year that was a turning point
for Bulgakov. In the spring of 1925, he was

the legend.

the end. He had been a literary patrician in
times that were moved by a proletarian ethos
and he had refused to ingratiate himself.
(Source of information—
Mikhail BulgakovA critical Biography
by- Lesely Milne).

