A Note on Mikhail Bulgakov

Mikhail Bulgakov (1891-1940) is better
known for his last novel The Master and

Margarita, which was published in Moscow
for the first time nearly 30 years after the
writer’s death. The Soviet Cultural scene of
the 1970's and 80's was heavily indebted
to this work with its multilayered ”rnagical
real ism”, its effortless shift from the

legendary to contemporaneity, from the
comrc to the supernatural.
Yet, Bulgakov was equally versatile as a
dramatist, with nearly a dozen plays to his
credit. Just as Chekhov’s name became

synonymous with Stainslavsky’s Moscow Art
Theatre in its formative years, Bulgakov’s
name and works personified this theatre in
its post - revolutionary period. In fact, it
was this theatre that discovered Bulgakov’s
talent as a dramatist. His maiden venture,

The Days of the Turbins heralded the first
production of the Moscow Art Theatre on
a contemporary theme. Bulgakov’s long
association with this theatre lasted over 1 0
years. Some of his plays were staged here,
the writer, for a time, worked as an assistant

director and even acted in the stage version

of Dicken’s Pickwick Papers. This long
association with its ups and downs in the
relationship (including tensions with
K. Stanislavsky over his handling of the play
you are watching today on Moliere are
described in Bulgakov’s novel, Black Snow
or The Theatrical Novel.
Life was not a bed of roses for the Soviet
writer of the Stalinist period and especially

for a satirist. One after another Bulgakov’s
plays were removed from the repertoire of
theatres. In the last decade of his life the
writer turns increasingly to history to tackle
contemporary problems of the state and the
individual, the difficulties of the artist in
withstanding pressure, the self-respect and

right to express oneself. Bulgakov the
dramatist turns to Pushkin, Don Quixote

and of course, Moliere. In the life of the
French dramatist, his fate and times,

—-Kalpana Sahni l

Bu Igakov discovers a parallel with his own
life and times. Moliere turns into an
Obsession. Not only does the Russian author
write a play on the last days of Moliere,
The Cabal of Hypocrites, he writes a

biographical novel on him, another play,
Ha lf—witted Jourdin - a variation on some

of Moliere’s plays, and then proceeds to
translate Moliere’s The Miser.
Through Moliere Bulgakov does not merely
depict the travails of a particular dramatist
but also his own personal conflicts and
those of his countrymen. For his biography
of Moliere Bulgakov chooses the epigraph
from Horace ”What will hinder me, if

laughing, i tell the truth?”

