The Directors' Note

Let me start by thanking Kirti ma’am &
Bajaj Sir for this opportunity they gave me
to do a play with the Repertory Cornpany.
Having to decide one play from the two
that I had thought of was a problem. I had

a group activity, can make the artists’

almost made up my mind to do ’Timon of

' problems even more complex. What with

Athens’ while I had also mentioned
’Moliere’ to Mr. Bajaj. it was his suggestion
which finally made me choose ’Moliere'. |
now think it was the best decision.

ego, jelousies, loves and hatreds almost
destroying their teams.

Bhaskarji, apart from having done music

for the play, has been involved in our
rehearsals and has been a great help as well
as encouragement for the production. Mr.
Ashok Bhagat has also been extremely
helpful to the team and me. I must also

personal, political, cultural, social life of
an artiste and the Arch Bishop used all his
power to achieve this. Every artiste would
have to address this question. Theatre, being

There was an interesting conversation
between Louis XIV and Bolieu the french
philosopher. When Louis asked Bolieu why
people created commotion over Moliere’s
play Tartuffe and not over Scaramoudhe’s
play that directly dealt with heaven and
hell,
the
philosopher
replied

”Scaramoudhe’s play dealt with heaven and
thank Piyushbha i for an excellent translation.
Also, this production would not have been
possible without the co—operation of my
colleagues both senior and junior in the
Repertory.
When Bulgakov wrote Moliere, he was going
through very difficult times under Stalin’s
repressive, oppressive reign. His experiences
of being a non-communist writer in that

regime are clearly seen in the play, inspite
of the historical theme he chose. ’Moliere’
as a play is not just history. Bulgakov does
not go for a ”historian’s truth”. He quite
obviously interprets history. As a Director I

too have looked for‘my own interpretation
and made some changes, especially in the
last scene. History tells us that Jean Baptiste
Moliere actually died two hours after his
last performance of ’La Malade Imaginaire’.
' But my attachment with the play and my
c0nstant attempt to put myself in various
jackets told me that he should have to
perform Tartuffe, his banned play, to reach
that stage.

When an artist starts to realize the meaning
of art and wants to be true to that art he
would have to handle issues with courage
and conviction. Moliere chose the Arch
Bishop as the model for his Tartuffe. On
the other hand guilt can destroy the

hell while Moliere deals with the gentry.”
Dealing with abstract concepts is not as
dangerous as dealing with real people.

Towards the end of his life, Bulgakov wrote
a story. He had a talented but poor character
in the story go to the king seeking
permission to write a story so that the he
could earn some money. The king in the
story grants his the permission but when
his majesty discovers the theme of the story
is about an oppressive tyrant king the writer
is beheaded. Did the writer sell himself for
nothing?

— छि'

