Mo I i e re (1 622-1673)

company ended in bankruptcy and Moliere
was jailed. Once again his father came to
his rescue and bailed him out.
In July, 1653, the company received the
privilege of performing in the private theatre
of the Prince of Conti. With Conti’s
patronage, the company's popularity and
prosperity increased. In 1657, Conti decided
to withdraw his patronage after accusing
Moliere of atheism.

‘

\ ,/ 1)"'lr1211

क्यों।

`दु ,, के'

Jean Baptiste Poquel in was born to Jean
Poquelin, a prosperous Parisian upholsterer,
and Marie Creasse on Jan 15, 1622. The

eldest of six children, Jean Baptiste was

brought up in solid middle class comfort.
Unfortunately, his mother died in 1633,
Arrnande Bejart

when he was only 10 years old.

Till the age of 14, he attended the school

On Oct 28, 1 658, the company performed

of Notre Dame and then joined the Jesuit

before King Louis XIV, under the patronage

College of Clerrnont, where he learnt Latin

of Monseiur, the King’s brother.
’Nicomedes’ Cornielle’s tragedy was a

and French. Thereafter he studied law but
soon gave it up succumbing to his desire to
be an actor.
In 1 642, Jean Baptiste met Madeleine Bejart,
and under her inﬂuence renounced his family
and embarked upon a theatrical career. In
the same year, together with Madeleine he
f0unded the ’II lustre Theatre' (The Illustrious
Theatre) in Paris which was financed by his
father. It was at this time that the name
Moliere was suggested to him by Madeleine,
which he adopted. However, despite the
efforts of Moliere and Madeleine, the

failure, but the King was impressed with

one of his own farces, ’The Amorous
Quarrel’, and commanded the company to
stay in Paris. In 1659, the company won
the King’s patronage and their troubles were

over for a few years.
On Feb 20, 1 662, Moliere married Arrnande
Bejart, believed to be Madeleine's sister,
but who was, in fact, her daughter. There
are numerous theories about Arrnande’s
origins, some claiming that she was
Moliere’s own daughter. However, it is

