Ikk Ladai Hor (DOGRI)
Plaml'r‘ngt : Mohan Singh
Direction : Bhupinder Singh ,Iamwal
Presented by : Duggar Manch, Jammu

Bhupinder Singh Jamwal
Born in 1969, Bhupinder Singh has directed fifteen short and full length plays
in different languages across the country in zonal as well [15 national theatre
festivals. He has conducted six theatre workshops for children and produced
plays including Mural/m Lo/e, Dalia Roman, A moi/yer Nagam’, and Dale Gbczr in
several languages.
He has won the Best Music Director Award from the J&K Academy of Art,
Culture 8: Languages four times and the Best Folk Singer Award from Rama
Kala Mandir at Pathankot. He has composed music for many productions of ‘
Jammu 8: Kashmir Doordarshan and for Doordarshan’s National Channel. He
has composed music for more than 20 plays at State and national levels,
including Raja, Pmﬁbz’mb, Aizdba Yug, SurajK61 Sam‘me Gboda, Mali/ea (Asbad

Ka Ele Din), Sawa Ser Kama/e, Der/yam, Apne Apne Ajnabz‘, A moi/ya Yug (in
Dogri), Matz'ya Burj and Maba Brahman, the latter for the Shri Ram Centre
Repertory Company, New Delhi.
Synopsis
A critique of post-independence developments in the country, the play begins
with the main characters, Panjab Singh and Farangi Ram, ex-soldiers of the
Indian National Army, expressing their anxiety about the way the common

man is being treated in present times. The soldiers feel that freedom, for
which thousands laid down their lives, has been hijacked by a particular group
of people, and others are simply being manipulated. Indianness is forsaken for
Westernization. The slogans of social equality and a society without
discrimination are mere eyewash. Communalization and criminalization are
the preferred tools of the politicians who feel proud of their skill to divide
people for their petty benefits. The play, a kind of document of the last 50
years, is also an appeal to countrymen, especially India’s youth, to fight against
the stranglehold of evil forces.
Cast

lie/e : Bhupinder Singh Jamwal, Swatentar Bharat
Dbo : Subash Singh Jamwal

Punjab Sing/9 : Shivdev Singh

