—
December 7, 6.00 pm

ZULVA
l.P.T.A., Maharashtra

Story : Uttam Bandu Tupe
Drama : Chetan Datar
Direction : Waman Kendre

The fruits of scientific. economic and social development are
rnonopolised by a few and while the nation is on the threshold of the
] 1 st century. hundreds and thousands of people belonging to different
communities and groups still carry on their neck, a heavy yoke of
customs. traditions and superstitions and are thus forced to lag far,
far behind.

“Jogte” is one of such communities. A Community infested by very
strong customs and traditions. “Yellarnrna”, the deity of the Jogtes,
controls their entire existence. The female worshippers of Yellarnrna are
called “Jogtinis” and the male worshippers, “Jogte”. These are the
children offered to Yellarmna in fulfilment of a vow. The children,

virtually thrown out of family bondage, are absorbed into the
community to worship and serve Yellamrna. The ways of service are
also strange. When a male or female child comes of age he/she is
married to Yellamrna and becomes a “Jogtya/Jogtin”. This marriage
ritual is known as “Karan”. After the Karan is performed, Jogtinis

cannot marry again or set up a family. A Jogtya cannot marry as right
from childhood he is used for homosexuality and is converted into an
eunuch. The Jogtya gets tied up to one or a few Jogtinis and is treated
as their guru. Jogtinis, are however, permitted to perform a semirnarriage ritual which is called “ZULVA” and lead the life of a keep to
a wealthy man in the village. The children born out of such Zulva
relationships are not given the social status of their fathers but they
become Jogtiyas/Jogtinis. This ensures continuity of the Jogte
community … a perennial source for quenching the lust of the sexstarved. In other words, the Jogte/Jogtinis are compelled to dissolve
their total existence —physical, mental and emotional -_ in exchange
for mere survival.
१
,१
…
.
..
..
दृ
,W... .. ,... .

,
f“ ..w¥
a न्देच्चाट्स¸ 58९९५३
।
\iTZJ
WW“% 1 १०

