दृ

understand Joan’s character we must understand her
env ironment; and,
considered in this light, a 21st century audience would tur
n out to be as guilty
of burning the Joans of their age as was the 15th century.
Joan’s undeclared, unconscious mission is to de
stroy medieval
civilization and a production of the play shou
ld not allow us to see her only

The trial and execution in Rouen in 1431 m
ight have been an
event of today. The whole value of Joan to us
is, how you can bring her and
her circumstances into contact with our
life and circumstances. To

against their rulers. This is the spirit that Joan represents.

was, in fact, a rising of the scholars against thei
r teachers, of the ruled

To establish the right of private judgment, was to appeal
from
the church to individuals; it was to increase the play of ea
ch man’s intellect;
it was to test the opinions of the priesthood by the opin
ions of laymen; it

was all Joan’s own. Joan’s miracles have, similarly, a rat
ional basis.

innocence of the world to a tragic death which has secured her immortality
what more do you want for a tragedy as great as that of Prometheus? All the
forces that bring about the catastrophe are on the grandest scale; and the
individual soul on which they press is of the most indomitable force and
temper. In the play itself, Shaw incorporates discussion about whether it is
Joan’s pride on her virtues and innocence that bring about her downfall.
Brieﬂy, then, Joan is a mental giant who is dreaded by her inferiors.
Unfortunately, Joan is ignorant of the effect her superiority creates on others.
Sometimes she does seem to realize this fact, but, convinced of her being
right every time, she ﬁnds it impossible to understand why people are not
obliged to her for pointing out their blunders. The victims of her implied
ridicule must defend themselves. They, however, can interpret her character
only in conventional terms.
I do not profess to understand Joan of Arc and neither will you,
unless you are growing rasher with advancing years, instead of
more
cautious. Lots of directors have tried to explain her, and to account
her, to
dramatize her and to glorify her. I simply arranged what I found t
here for the
stage, relying on Joan to pull me through. Joan’s voices and visions
were the
inspirations and unconsciously reasoned conclusions of genius: t
heir wisdom

protestantism and ecclesiasticism, and driven by her virtues and her

and the holy Roman empire, between feudalism and nationalism, between

JOan is a first-class subject readymade. You have a heroic
character, caught between “ the fell incensed points” of the Catholic church

DIRECTOR’S NOTE

