पीश्र1रा1ल
बसंतसेना, उज्जैन की एक प्ररव्यात गणिका है जो जि चारनदत्त नामक ब्राह्मण से
प्रेम करती है l चारूदत्त अपनी उदारता के कारण अब दरिद्रता का जीवन व्यतीत
कर रहा है l राजा का साला, संस्थानक, वसंतसेना को पाना चाहता है I एक रात
वसंन्तसेना संरप्यानक से बचने के लिए चारूदत्त के घर में आश्रय लेती है ’और
अपने आभूषण वहाँ छोड आती है । वसंतसेना की दासी, मदनिका, शर्विलक
नामक ब्राह्मण से प्रेम करती है । शर्चिलक चारूदत्त के घर में चोरी करता है
जिससे यह धन प्राप्त करक मदनिका को मुक्त करवा सके । इस तरह शर्वित्नक
वसंतसेना के आभूषण उस तक पहुचा देता है । चोरी की बात छिपाने के लिए
चारूदत्त कहता है जि आभूषण उसने जुए में हार दिए हैं और यसत्सिंना दी खोई
हुई रत्नावली को चारूदत्त की पत्नी, अपनी रत्नावली से बदलने के लिए देकर
चारूदत्त की सहायता करती है I
इसी दौरान वर्षा में ही वसंतसेना, चारूदत्त कं घर जाती है । निकाल वसंतसेना,
चारूदत्त के पुत्र रोहसेन को रोता देन्द्रती है क्योंकि उसकं थासं सोने की गाली
नहीं है । बाद ने चारूदत्त गाडी भेजकर वसंत्तसेना को पुष्पकरडक उद्यान में
बुलाता है । लेकिन भूल से वसंतसेना, संस्थानक द्वारा भेजी गाजी में बैठ जाती है ।
इसी समय आर्यक नामक एक कैदी जेल से भाई चारूदत्त द्वारा भेजी गाडी में
बैल जाता हैं l चारूदत्त के पास पहुचने पर चारूदत्त आर्थक को सम्मान सहित
जाने देता है ।
इसी समय वसंतसेना, स्वयं को संस्थानक के सामने पाकर अचम्भित हो जाती है I
यह संस्थगृनक को कोसती है । संरथानक इस बात से नाराज़ होकर उसंकौ हत्या
कर देता है I इसी समय, चारूदत्त का पुराना मित्र संवाहक (जो कि अब बौद्ध भिक्षु
बन चुका है) वहीं पहुंचता है और उन्हें बचा लेता है ।
इसी समय, राजा का साला. संस्थानक, चारूदत्त पर वसंतसेना की हत्या का झूठा

आरोप लगाकर उसे न्यायालय से मृत्युदंड दिलवाता है । परन्तु इसी दोरान सत्ता
में परिवर्तन होता है और कैंदी आर्थक राजा बन जाता है । संही समय पर
वसंतसेना भी न्यायालय में पहुंच जाती है और चारूदत्त को मृत्युदण्ड से बचा

लेती है l
नया राजा आर्थक, चारूदत्त को राज्य का एक महत्वपूर्ण हिस्सक्च देता है और

वसंतसेना को कुंलवधू कं पद से विभूतियों करता है । चारूदत्त और वसंतसेना
विवाह बंधन से बंध जाते हैं I

The Play
in love
Vasantasena is a famous courtesan of Ujjayini who falls
shed by
with the Brahman merchant Charudutta, now impoveri
w of
son«in-Ia
his own charity by being generous to a faultThe
ne
the king, Samsthanaka,however,wants her for himseIfO
of
dark night Vasantasena seeks shelter in the home
Charudutta with Samsthanaka in pursuit, and deposits her
ornaments with Charudutta for safekeeping before leaving his
house when the coast is clear.Vasantasena has a maid
servant, Madanika by name, with whom a Brahmin named
Sharvilaka has fallen in loveHe wants to buy her freedom . To
obtain the required money he burgles the house of Charudutta
and steals the ornaments left by Vasantasena. Sharvilak buys
the freedom of Madanika, by offering Vasantasena her own
ornaments In the meantime Charudutta , mortified by the loss
of ornaments left in his charge, concocts the story that he
gambled Vasantasena's ornaments away rather than admit to
their theft; and his loyal wife Dhuta helps him replace
Vasantasena's lost jewelry with her own.ln the meantime the
monsoon has broken and Vasantasena returns to the house of
Charudutta and spends the night there to avail herself of the
romantic opportunity provided by the season. In the morning
Vasantasena finds Charudutta‘s son Rohasen crying because
he owns only a clay cartVasantasena places her ornaments in
his cart and asks him to buy a golden one with them. This
incident provides the title of the play. Later in the clay
Vasantasena and Charudutta has an assignation in the park
called Pushpakrandaka; but by accident she gets into the
chariot of Samsthanaka. In the meantime a political prisoner
escapes and gets into the cart of Charudutta. The driver ,
mistaking the rattle of chains for the tinkling of Vasantasena's
ornaments, drives the vehicle away. The escapee, Aryaka by
name, is accosted by two police guards; but one of them,
being favorably disposed to the prisoner in flight. causes a
commotion, allowing the prisoner to get away. On arriving in
the park and after being helped by Charudutta, the prisoner
makes his gateway, full of gratitude for his benefactor
C harudutta
Meanwhile Vasantasena has also arrived in the park and is in
for a nasty surprise. She runs into the wicked Samsthanaka
whose vehicle she has mistakenly mountedShe spurns the
advances of Samsthanaka, who is so enraged by her rejection
that he chokes her and leaves her for deadFortunater she is
saved by Samvahaka, a reformed gambler and an old friend of
Charudutta, now turned Buddhist monk; who takes her for the
rrrorrestry and revives her.

In the meantime at the instigation of Samsthanaka,
Charudutta is charged with the murder of Vasantasena and is
sentenced to death . But there is a dynastic revolution and the

escapee Aryaka becomes the king, after doing away with the
reigning monarch Palaka who had imprisoned Aryaka on
account of a prophecy that Aryaka would someday be king.

The forces of good triumph over the evil not a moment too
soon. Charudutta is discharged ; he can have Samsthanaka
killed for falsely accusing trim of murder but practices
magnanimity in victory and lets him go, The new king
reinstates Charudutta in a posiotion befitting his virtue and
courtesan is raised to dignity by royal decree. Charudutta and
Vasantasena get married .

