S A N K R A N T I
The story of ‘Sankranti’ (or ‘Transition’), centre round an ancient
zamindar family of Bengal, covers a period of about 30 years and represents three
phases-the

Bengal Partition

I905, the Non-Co—operation

Movement

l920’s and

the Civil Disobedience Movement l930's. It is a drama of transition from feudal
landlordism to capitalist industrialisrn and then again to the dawning of a new era
when, with the achievement of dignity of labour, the Sudras-the lowly, the
depressed, the toiling masses- begin to emerge as a predominant class in society.
The Datta family, aristocrat zamindars of Dattapur,

is split up into two

houses: (i) The Senior House, of which the representative is Nistarini, widow
of the elder brother and (ii) The Junior House, of which the head is
Kalinarayan.
There is family rivalry between the two houses. There is also ideological
conflict between Kalinarayan and his son, though both are greedy and acquisitive
in nature.

Nistarini, with the stamp of aristocracy visible in her appearance and
conduct, symbolises all that is sublime and humane love, sympathy, tolerance and
and a noble flexibility to the ordeals of fate and inevitable changes in the social
set-up. Her foil is Kalinarayan who is orthodox, ostentatious, and a trifle
unscrupulous.
Nistarini’s son, l--larshanarayan, is a worthless sot and libertine has, there-

fore, been deprived. in his father’s will of all proprietary rights except his claim
as a beneficiary only. So, she sets much hope on the birth of her grandson.
ACT I (Time: I905).
The curtain rises with the news of the birth of two babies on the same
day and at the same moment, but under entirely different circumstances.
Nistarini has gOt a grandson. Ratan, her family servant has also got a son. On
astrolygical calculations, the family priest (Chandramaclhab) declares that Nistarini’s
grandson is destined to be man of great wealth and fame arid beloved of the King.
At this Ratan asks: Would the same prediction hold good for his son too, born
at the same split second ? He is derisively dismissed by the orthodox Brahmin
and is mortified. On that night Harsha’s wife dies.
But Ratan does not forget the prophesy. His absurdly high hopes and
his mad fondling of the baby makes him a ridiculous figure.
Time arrives for the ﬁrst rice-giving ceremony to the baby. The ryots, who
used to play music before on such festive occasions, are now हैं mostly
uprooted. They are in ferment. And on the day of ceremony, a horrible news
leaks out. Chandramadhab, the priest stands fallen and ostracised, as his daughter
has elotej with a Mussalman music ustad. Nistarini fails in her lonely struggle to
estaalish that the father cannot be penalised for the daughter’s error. As Harsha
turns against her, she decides to retire to Banaras.

