ACT ll (Time : l5 years later-l920’s)
Shankarnarayan, whom his father, Kalinarayan, wanted to be a Magistrate,
has come back from England as a trained industrialist and has set up his own
cotton mills. He has also brought back a doctor wife, a Sophisticed Brahmo girl,
much against his father’s will. Sita, his wife, is in charge of the mill hospital.
Sita is a humanist at heart and feels frustrated in her efforts as doctor.
Ratan, like other ryots, is a mill labourer.

Soon after Nistarini's depar-

ture to Banaras, Harsha was fobbed by Kalinarayan of his estate in lieu of a
paltry sum of Rs. 5,000/-. Where Ratan had his tiny piece of land, stands now
the mill.
Ratan consults Sita about his son, Charan, who is an absolute dumb
cripple and imbecile. Blood test shows that it is the effect of the father’s corrupt
blood. Ratan becomes the butt of wife’s impotent rage and friends’ ridicule. He
feels eager' to see Harsha’s son, Aditya, but is told that it is not possible.

He is

a Swadeshi patriot terrorist, and comes sometimes only in the secrecy of the night.
And yet, Ratan sees Aditya only for a few brief moments, while the latter takes
refuge in his house as his wife (Durga) lies on her death bed. Aditya gives the
last drink of water to Durga, before he is carried away by the police.
ACT I“ (Time : l0 years later-l930’s)
Shankarnarayan is deeply vexed at the increasing labour troubles.

The

climax comes when Kalinarayan, all excited, breaks in with the news that Aditya
has been released and that Nistarini, back from Banaras, has filed a suit in the
High Court for recovery of the land which Harsha gave away for a paltry sum.

The document which Harsha gave is not tenable under law.
Harsha, now a wasted

decrepit man, comes in entreating just food and

shelter. Shankar sees an opportunity to exploit the situation in his own favour.
Meanwhile, Harish Vakil (the family advocate) is fighting Aditya’s case in the High
Court; his daughter is betrothed to Aditya.

Ratan, completely fatigued, feels that he cannot die until he has disclosed
the burden of a truth.

Nistarini faints, as he discloses that on the night Harsha’s

wife died, he exchanged the two babies out of frustration and anger at the priest’s
derisive laughter when he wanted to know the fate of his son. Aditya is his son,
not Harsha’s.
Ratan

is

dragged

before

Kalinarayan and Shankarnarayan.

The former

threatens to flog him and tries to make him repeat the story that he and not
Harsha is Aditya’s father.

Terriﬁed, Ratan rolls down the stairs and dies.

Aditya

rushesin to embrace his servant father, but too late. Nistarini enters, seekin
Aditya. She is ready to leave everything, her property, her pride of family and

blue blood.
her life.

But, she cries, she cannot leave Aditya, the only surviving lamp in

