THE REPERTORY COMPANY
The Repertory Company of the
National School of Drama is a performing group of players and
technicians who have graduated
from the School in the past years.
Formed in 1964 with just four actors, the Company was started on
an experimental basis by Shri E.
Alkazi, the Director of the School

till the late 19705 and a dynamic
theatre personality who had a
major hand in nurturing and expanding the Company over the
years.
In 1977, when the Company acquired the status of National Repertory, Shri Manohar Singh took
over as its Chief and carried its
activities across the nation, the

foundation for which had been
laid by Shri E. Alkazi. Since the
early 19705 the Company has produced a rich variety of plays that
range from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works. A
few examples: Tughlaq, Andha
Yug, Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed,
Panchvan Savar, Rasgandharoa,

Surya Ki Antim Kiran Se Surya Ki
Pehli Kiran Tak, Charpai, Sainyan

Bhaye Kotwal, Adhe Adhure,
Sandhya Chhaya, Iasma Odan, Mattavilas, Kath Ki Gadi, Virasat,
Mashriqi Hoor, Main Ladli Maina

Teri, Pagla Ghoda, etc.
The Repertory has worked with
a variety of directors from India
and abroad. Besides using the best
available scripts the Company has
also successfully drarnatised and
produced a few novels and short

stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekant,
Begum Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri,
Mahabhoj, and Mitro Marjani. In
the past years its repertoire has

also included foreign plays in
translations and adaptations.
Some examples: Brecht’s Caucasian Challk Circle,. Three Penny Opera and Puntila and His Man Matti;
Shakespeare’s Othello and
Macbeth; Moliere’s School for

Wives; Osborne’s Look Back in Anger; Bond’s The Pool; Chekhov’s
Uncle Vanya and Cherry Orchard;
Pirandello’s Six Characters in
Search of An Author; Istvan
Orkeny’s Totek; Rostand’s Cyrano
de Bergerac, Goldoni’s The Servant
of Two Masters; Saroyan’s The Cave
Dwellers; and Bernard Shaw’s Pygmalion .
The Company is based in New
Delhi, where it gives regular performances. It has a Studio Theatre
and a beautiful Open-Air Theatre.
The latter is one of the best of its
kind, situated in natural sur-

roundings readily adaptable to
different environments and thus
enriching the different style of
productions which have been
staged there.
One of the remarkable contributions of the Company’s activities
which has given a new dimension
and Opened a new avenue for the
Indian theatre is the use of histori-

cal monuments and ruins like

Pinjor Garden, Chandigarh,
Ferozeshah Kotla, Talkatora Garden and Purana Quila in Delhi for

