EXCERPTS FROM
DRAMA AND DIALECTICS OF VIOLENCE
Edward Bond’s Interviewed by the

Editors of Theatre Quarterly

0. In the Saved act of violence is a very representative occurence. Given those circumstances,
this could have happened to almost any body, which is what makes in so terrifying.

A.

A play doesn’t exist on its own.

about human nature,

It has to be taken in relation to our factual knowledge

or to be past political nature of a society.

So that one is always part of a

movement and what I hope happens in SAVED is that an audience better realizes the nature of the
society, what the nature of its problems are, and therefore what sort of solutions are needed.
you believe that people are innately wicked then one soulution is to say, well gas them.

If

Somebody

as recently as Bernard Show could openly say that. And if you do believe that people are innate ly
wicked, its a logical and defensible position. I can’t believe that people are innately wicked at all.
0. In all your plays there is a great deal of physical suffering and violence, executed on
the stage. Obviously you regard this violence as an essential element in your plays .7

A.

Well, as a society we are destroying ourselves through violence.

must do something about these Violent people, lets hit them harder.

All people say is, we

Violence just is the big problem

of our society—in the way that sex was the problem that haunted the Victorians.
of our society is bent on glamourizing-and using violence.

Now, the whole

If you turn on your television set, you

see a programme about killing somebody else, and Mrs. white house says, how dreadful, It shouldn’t

have been made.

But then the ods come on, and there is a government commercial for killers,

saying what a marvellous life it is in the army.

Come and be ene of the boys, go sailing in the

mediterranean, be taught how to use a gun, he a man.
So there is no doubt about it that we live in a very violent society. My plays are all
concerned with the problem of violence because it is the consuming problem—the one that will
decide what happens to us all. And what I have always tried to make clear in my plays is that
violence in it self is not a danger to any species. With human being, all our rnechanisons are
biological, and if I get upset something happens inside me and I have to act.

If I am threatend

I will hit back. All violence is basically defensive ........................ the human being to-day is
always in a state of tension and of being scared and frightened and is therefore agressive. Its
get nothing to do with the world of nature at all where agression functions in a protective way.

A

conpetetive society must destroy itself there is no alternative, because this is the whole dialectic
of violence, I threaten you, you threaten me, and ﬁnally you have to carry out your threats, otherwise there is no evidance behind them. And also because agression creates fear and this leads to
more violence and this has an exalation of its own. So that if society goes on as its going on now,
it will destroy itself. ' Not Will it could it, might it-it will.

