DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The world is in constant ﬂux. And we often question its very being and our presence
here. How can humankind evolve in the best possible way? The more we are developed
in science and technology, the more we seem to regress, to lose our mental and spiritual
balance. Despite the presence of such powerful bodies as the United Nations and
human rights organizations, violence and war continue to accelerate. Increasingly it
seems like the good in man is overwhelmed by the evil. As a result, man has lost
control of his innate qualities, the facility to ﬁnd peace and equanimity within his very
soul. Priyadarshi (Ashoka), the protagonist in this play is one such man — confused,
misguided, beset by evil cornpulsions. We may not choose Priyadarshi’s path to
overcome the destructive in ourselves, but we can choose to be constructive and
compassionate in our journey through life. — Ratan Thiyarn
SYNOPSIS
Prologue
UttaILPr'iyadarshi opens with the chanting of a prayer by the four Samvadaks (monks). These
narrators are joined by eight members of the chorus bearing symbols of the eightfold path of
Lord Buddha. They pray to Lord Buddha and praise his benevolence.
Flashback
.
A child plays with the dust of the earth in a courtyard. He stops suddenly as the wandering
Sakyarnuni (Lord Buddha) stands before him smiling, asking for alrns. The child offers a
handful of dust to Lord Buddha who sprinkles it on the surface of the earth, sanctifying it, for
this child will be reborn as Ashoka (also known as Priyadarshi), future king of the Mauryas.
Wheel of Time
As the Samvadaks extol Lord Buddha, who looks upon all with eyes of compassion, they
form a mandala (wheel of time), and move from the past into the present. In the background,
prayers are chanted.

Scene One
Riding an elephant at the head of his victorious army, Priyadarshi, having vanquished the
kingdom of Kalinga, returns home. The Samvadaks recount his exploits as conqueror of the
vast continent.
Scene Two
Priyadarshi commands his Bhat-charans (royal musicians) to sing Nandi, glorifying his victory
and fame. But the emperor is mocked by the Samvadaks, who call him a proud and lonely
king. He throws away his blood-stained sword, and laments his unfulﬁlled dream of an
empire where people can live a contented life free from fear.

Once more he orders the royal musicians to sing Nandi. Instead, he is greeted with the
agonized cries of the widows ofvwar. He is engulfed by sorrow and grief. He feels the ghosts
of his fallen foes advance and surround him. To drive them away, he vows to punish them by
throwing them into Hell. He orders his minister to ﬁnd someone who is both ferocious and
evil. The minister chooses Ghor, wanton destroyer, and Priyadarshi — against the will of the
'
people — appoints the malevolent Ghor Lord of Hell.

