Cut... Cut...Cut... (Comedy -- Hindi)
Direction: Pawan Maillotra
Script: M. Sayeed Alain
A Pierrot's Troupe's Presentation
at

Sriram Center (Basement)

Pierrot‘ s Troupe ’s presentation of the play,”(7‘ut...Cut...Cut...” is an
indulgence into self-criticism. It brings live the mess the herd of
individuals, called Pierrot's Troupe, create during the rehearsal ofany
play.
Take the case of "Padiye Agar Beemar", to be staged shortly. The
ones cast as the father and the son are 'Bihari' and 'Haryanvi'
respectively. The two add to the director's troubles no end by
simply refusing to tamper the tone and the temper of the diverse
dialects of Hindi they speak. One of the senior members of the
troupe who when hardly five days are leﬁ to staging ot‘the play has
developed a penchant for disrupting, unwittingly, the rehearsal of a

scene by throwing

"ek aur idea". Taking the cue

in the right

tradition of following one's seniors, a junior member also gets into
this practice. One of the members considers his association with the
Pierrot's Troupe as a mere opportunity to socialize with the girls. He,
therefore. takes least interest in doing rehearsal when the female
members are not around , which they are usually not. The ones
playing the romantic duo of the patient and the nurse, cast by the
director taking into account solely the intimacy between them, have
of late developed a grudge against each other that has started making
a spill-over effect on their performance during the rehearsal. The
director himself is no exception either. He categorically rejects the
improvisations, suggested by the actors, which do not ﬁt into his

scheme of things. irritated by the things moving at snail's pace, the
responsibility for which lies squarely with him no matter he does not
admit that, he complains, groans, scolds, but encouraging, boosting
and propping up the actors. Then. there is the ego-clash between the
director and the script-writer. Be it noted that the 'Mantra' of Pierrot's

Troupe. and that is for the knack of creating a separate identity in the
Delhi theatre, is not to attempt a tested script. Nor is it for the Hindi

