o synopsis
DOW N TRAIN
Satyabhushan, station master of an obscure railway station
is deeply distressed, His wife Aparna is desparately ill and

has to be sent to hospital immediately, but the releiving hand
is not yet arrived; his son Khoka whom he has summoned
has not yet come either. Ghosh Babu, a friendly neighbour
volunteers to escort her to the hospital ; much against her
will, Aparna agrees to go. The down-train leaves with Aparna
and casts Satyabhushan in retrospection. Poor and scrupulously
honest, Satyabhushan cannot help accusing himself of having
neglecting his wife too long through poverty, when Naren Pal, a
crafty businessman comes and tempts him with substantial bribes

in return for a shady transaction.
offer :

Naren

Pal

goes away,

but

Satyabhushan spur's the
not

before

he

sown seeds of dishonesty in Satabhushan's honest mind.

had

As

Satyabhushan broods over Brojonath, a Vaisnavite who comes in

his usual round there to see Aparna who has immense affection
and compassion for Brojonath—an ex-convict still hated by many
for his past life as a murderer and dacoit. On hearing that

Aparna has been taken to junction hospital for treatment of her
illness, Brojonath makes his way towards junction station.
The 2nd down-train comes and passes. Naren Pal back,
who misses the train and seeks shelter at Satyabhushan's place.
Satyabhushan advises him to walk the way to the junction
station which is not far.

But when Naren Pal learns from the

pointsrnan Mathura Parsad that Brojonath came there and had
gone to the junction, he decides to stay with Satyabhushan;

mortally afraid as he was of Brojonath whom he considered
to be still a dacoit under the garb of a Vaisnab.

Besides Naren

Pal has with him twenty thousand rupees which he hands over
to Satyabhushan to keep in the safe of the station. Satyabhushan
with much hesitation takes the money and keeps it in the safe.

He then asks Naren Pal to go and sleep in his house. Naren
Pal goes with Mathura Parsad and Satyabhushan keeps awaiting
in the Station for the last up-train of the day. Meanwhile the
up-train comes and to his surprise he ﬁnds his son Khoka

