TRANSLATORS NOTE
Hayavadan has come to be accepted as a modern classic. It is a happy coincident
that two of the plays by celebrated Indian playwright, Mr. Girish Karnad (both translated
by me) should be running the performances in Goa simultaneously. I am referring to
Karnad’s latest play ‘Agni Mattu Male’ (Agni Anni Paaoos’ in my Marathi translation).
I was deeply impressed by the script of Hayavadan and I said to myself, this play

I must put on my priority list of adaptations/translations, in Konkani, a cultural area in
which I have been specializing over the last more than two decades. I did start the

translation some years ago but somehow it didn’t make much headway until my
friend Shri Udaybab Bhernbre once made a chance remark that this play by Karnad
was one of his most favourites. He also told me that his ‘Asmitai Pratisthan’ would

be too glad to publish it.
I Thus this play came before the Konkani readership first and now forthe viewership
in performance through the ‘Kala Academy Rangmell’.
A good play should be both, readable as well as performance worthy. I think
Hayavadan satisfies both these criteria, which is why I took on this exercise of

translation. Most of the plays which I have adapted so far have been my transcreations
and some of them have been published in book form which fact has given me an
idea of my success or failure as an adaptor. Hayavadan, however is a straight
translation of Karnad’s own English rendering read with CT. Khanolkar’s Marathi
version. Hayavadan has various important elements which go to make a play powerful
and effective.

I have always been impressed by Karnad’s approach of choosing Indian themes
and indigenous dramatic material, either from folk literature or history, or mythology,
Hayavadan can be and has been interpreted in numerous ways. This multiplicity of
interpretations and scope for them makes the play rich, thought-provoking but not
too cerebral, entertaining but not cheap. It moves on quite a few different planes
simultaneously. Karnad leaves empty spaces and scope for directors to improvise
and develop as per their ability Hayavadan thus is a play for elite as well as
commoners, for the classes and also for the masses. | feel fortunate and grateful

that Kala Academy’s professional theatre wing ‘Rangmell’ already well known for
high level of professionalism and quality productions, chose my translation in Konkani
of this highly acclaimed play. In my opinion this play will certainly click on the Konkani

stage and this production of Rangmell will reach far and wide in the country and may
be, perhaps, even beyond. It will certainly present the best that is happeningin the

Konkani theatre arena in Goa today.
ly
Of course, as always, I say that whatever that is good in the script certain

must be
belongs to Karnadji, while numerous drawbacks that are sure to be there
es.
taken as translation’s contribution for which this translator is ever-willing to apologi
performers,
By the way of the traditional ‘Bharatavakya', I wish the entire team of
this play, all the very best.
Director of the play and all those involved in producing
- Prakash Uta/i

