' ‘ ' Ii

On Collaboration: Nalini Malani & Anuradha Kapur’
I":-

T ,V . _. .1”

.~‘

दुह ँ

_ is.» w
>112५९

x“ डि

1

है

,पृक्यूँदृ

such as yours, theatre rea'lize‘sfftrirg
K.K: Would you agree that with collaborations
हैंदु
and theta;
esses such as those of Weyfgalgﬂs

the image through proc

realizes performance and the body through prooess'ezs’characﬁeﬁfﬁiﬁtofth tre?

९

Iw,

N.M: Very much so. I feel the potential of theatrical space opens up the minute

-..
cries’outjgb...”
one looks at an installation. In fact the very word linstallation
_ .
., ff.” .

performances.
A.K: Also । find that in usual theatre performance the objects - from tables and
chairs to actual costumes and colours - have a limited life that is, most often
connected to pure function. So even if colour is chosen for colour, it is overlaid
by the habit of seeing; a coat or a handkerchief will be that functional article first
and then colour. Some of these conventions have been turned around with this
collaboration.

K.K: Does this create problems for you as a director who has to at the same
time work within the framework of the text and of theatrical representation as
well as direct the actress Ritu Talwar in say a more conceptual or extra theatrical
tradition than usual?

A.K: Towards this end I have re—worked some of the style of narrative: eg. if I
ask Nalini to create an Object and what I get, which is often the case, is some
echo of a functional object, then I work the performance around the possibilities
thrown up by what she has made. In terms of narrative, a structure particular to
the needs of this collaboration has been evolved and the problems of space and
design too have been solved with that in mind. And since I am working with
installation art, l have worked an inherent stylization into the performance, the
gesture is for instance codified in such a way that it complements the art work,
and is not fluid, or even necessarily logical.

K.K: So the performance could be linked to the image through colour and the
narrative apart from text and language, unravells through objects and gesture?
N.M: These things work both ways, sometimes Anuradha creates a scene or
moment which I have to work with and around. I have always worked with
narratives, but this time its all been quite magical. What I've tried to do is work a
presence into the various objects - including the sets and costumes. In fact
many of the things I 've planned out will come alive only because of the perfor—
mance. At the moment I am quite gripped by this whole experience and its
influence on my work which evolved only after l began sitting in on rehearsals.
Working so closely with theatre people is quite different from working by oneself
in one's studio... . it gives one a nudge, it cuts one's ego, its a good thing.
Ka m a l a K a p o o r

है

