The story-element is underplayed in

a few other sequences.

the play

this act

by

The pub eteer who tells the

explains to the Three

means of

story of

' e ngen who are sDeCtBTOV—

participants, the story of Chemban mu is
spectators to the old times of s ver
aristocratic woman, Ammachi, rece' ed the
Holland
in Kerala from Portugal, Franc

birth. He brings the
in Kerala, when the
lonisers who landed
and EnglandJThis is

to give a historical dimension to the situation

of corruption in

contemporay life. Corruption of values is also physicalised by
means of the encounter between the devil—priest and the Bird;
and the guardian of good
The Bird is a friend of Mariamma
dreams. Mariamma elicits Western planter's wealth and gives

him slow-killing poison.
The story of Thevi progresses through the outcries of her
man, l'hevan. He becomes a martyr of revolt against forces of
power and money. The third act ends when Thevi, raped in
the chucrh, finds Thevan on the cross.
In the fourth act, Varkey flees from Mariamma with her
treasure—pot full of gold coins. The devil-priest allows him to
Puthancham
keep the pot in the inner room of the church
brings the children to the church, kills them and puts them in
the baptism-trough and from the trough, as it were, Thevan is
resurrected. Thevan faces the priest saying that the dead are
not destroyed and that they will pursue him. Then follows a crowd
sequence in which the priest announces that there will no longet
be prayers in the Church. The devil-priest fears that he Will be
tempted towards pity,
and
God's
anger becomes stronger.
So he decides to leave the parish; but the people would nor
let him go.
Mariamma has become a fully modernised woman now.
She is rich; but her life depends on rich men, whose quarrels
she tries to stop by satisfying their lust. She goes on dancing
in the Western style; that is her existence. The famous Christmas song ’Jingle bells' is used for Mariamma's danee, to bring
out the irony of the situation.

Thevan

comes out of

Thevi's expected child.
it off.

the

cross and

promises to save

The devil-priest kills the Bird and carries

