जा, र ' '

i ग्रस्तम्भक्ल )

J

The members of the' BRECHTIAN MIRROR are hurr
of theatre.

The groiip was formed in 1970 at New Del i, with an objective of incul-

“hug and propagating the forms and styles of his ‘ep
.
the group has so far produced 16 productions which have been widely acclaimed
by the public and the press alike. In 1981 its production of Bertold Brecht’s THE
RESISTIBLE RISE OF ARTURO U], in Hindustani, was in collaboration with the
Max Mueller Bhavan, New Delhi.

In this production of Euripides’s ELECTRA, the group is presenting one of the

earliest surviving dramas in the history of theatre. ELECTRA is based on one of the
stories in the Greek mythology—a sequel to the Trojan War. This play was written
by Euripides for the god-fearing audience of Greece; designed and presented in the
open-air-theatre in front of 20,000 audience in highly stylised f'orm, making use of bold
gestures and costumes, and chorus.

We introduce ELECTRA to the Indian audience

for the ﬁrst time—2375 years after it was written in Hindi, recapturing the
secular philosophy of Euripides and his psychological treatment of human emotions.
An attempt has been made to present this play in lucid lyrical style, making use of
elaborate sets and costumes to capture the historical ancient Greek times; the use of
chorus and music has been made to highlight the action of the play—an essential
part of the Greek theatre and style; and the use of ballet to stylise the ancient theatrical

form,
३ The Brechtian Mirror in selecting ELECTRA had in mind the potentialities
provided by the Greek epic theatre for adoption of the Brechtian style in which nonverbal and physical means of expression play important part, a devise of quite increditable power of stirring the intelligence, the feelings, the memory and the imagination
and of communicating messages; drama not just to hypnotise or entrance the audience
but to continually remind them that what they are watching is a representation, a vehicle
for ideas or a fact.

As Brecht uncouthly labelled his devise as

‘alienation’—an

art of placing an action at a distance so that it can be judged objectively and seen in

relation to the world around it.
In this endeavour we are specially grateful to Shri Mohan Upreti who has
composed music for this play; and Shri Krishna Nayak who has choreographed the

ballet in Chau style Mayur bhanja.

