The Playwright

EURIPIDES (c. 484-407 B.C.) was one of the last Greek tragedians, his predecessors
being Aeschylus and Sophocles.
athlete and a skilled painter.

He was born at Phyla in Attica; was an outstanding
He received good education, soon coming under the

inﬂuence of such thinkers as Protagores, Anaxagoras, and Socrates. In later life his
out spoken antagonism to the war-party at Athens drove him further in isolation until,
of
in about 408 B C., he went into voluntary exile, dying the following year at the court
Archelaus, King of Macedon.

Euripides began his career as a dramatist in 455 B.C., winning third place with

the Pleiades. Not till 422 B.C. did be secure the ﬁrst prize, and only four times in all.
The scientiﬁc and philosophic thought expounded in his plays, often approaching
religious scepticism, did not ﬁnd much favour with his contemporaries. '
Euripides was essentially a realist whose art reﬂected the humours and passions
plots and
of daily life, and the vehicle he sought as his medium was a drama of archaic
his rationalism,
simple style, not unmixed with sheer incongruities, but, seen through

instructive
tempered with by. the use of such techniques as the deux ex machina and the
of modern
prologue, was more an inner, psychological realism than the literal realism
by Euripides as
drama. Characters who were traditionally idealised were presented

ordinary human beings, but within the stylised setting.

He limited the function of

gave it many
traditional chorus—which was less useful in his more realistic theatre, but
interlude.
of his most brilliantly conceived lyrics, which were used as a sort of musical

of his
Euripides drew plots for his plays from Greek mythology, as most
contemporary

dramatists

based

on

Homer’s

Iliad

and

s.
Sophocles ane Euripides dealt with the same stories and subject

Odyssey—Aeschylus,

While Aeschylus’s

divine forces which
plays primarily concerned with the power and the continuity of
which could neither be
control the destinies of the doomed families—forces
were governed by the will of
questioned nor resisted; to Aeschylus man’s conﬂicts

led the knot. Sophocles
the god and only He pronounced the verdict and unrave
ed the immortal story of
pronounced no judgement in his plays—he has only narrat
istic
Euripides presented his plays on a secular, human and natural
will or ‘nemesis’, and analyzed
level, rejecting the accepted interpretations of the divine

the mortal beings.

see a conﬂict between emotions
the psychological human emotions. In this plays we
fact Euripides was one of
and rationality, a conﬂict between self and social being. In
authority, the deeds and the
the earliest dramatists who dared question or challenge
philosophy of the prevailing ruling class.

