THEATRE EXPERIENCE FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH
One can say without exaggeration, that the Berlin Theatre of Friendship
is one of the

leading children’s and youth theatres in the world.

During the past 30 years it has

produced more than 150 plays, one third of them premieres.

360 performances are

shown during a season, and, in addition, 30 concerts for children and musiccumliterature programmes are put up.

More than ﬁve million spectators have not been mean with their enthusiasm and
applause since the inauguration of the theatre in November 1950 in Berlin, the capital
of the GDR.

Free seats are rare.

The Theatre of Friendship understands itself as an integral part of the socialist education system of the German Democratic Republic and feels competent, in partnership

with the school, particularly for instilling feelings. There are ﬁrm ties with school
classes, members of the educational department of the theatre go to the schools for
discussions in preparation of a production or after the performance. An introduction
to every play is prepared for the teachers. Discussion with young people in the foyer
play a very important part. The management of the theatre is making efforts to stage

interesting plays that say a great deal and enrich the thinking and feelings of the young
generation and that contribute to winning ﬁrm aesrhetical and moral positions. The
theatre is very interested in family visits and in the development of a partnership
between adults and childeren.

The 200 permanent members of the Theatre of Friend-

ship Berlin see to it that above all fantasy and pleasure will get their fair share.

After

all, theatre is something to be enjoyed and to provide pleasure.

There are altogether ﬁve children’s and youth theatres in the German Democratic
Republic. The ﬁrst one was opend in Leipzig shortly after the liberation from
fascism, the others are situated in Dresden, Berlin, Halle, and Magdeburg—all of
them inaugurated after the foundation of the GD R and sponsored by the Government
of the German Democratic Republic.

From :

The Embassy of German Democratic Republic

