About the author
private school of theatre arts in N. W.

Mr. Dilgir who has distinguished him-

self as a

India and ﬁrst to found Indian Classical
Music Conference at Chandigarh in 1968.

poet, playwright, short story

unique
writer and dramatist, has made a
contribution to the performing arts of the
country. He has been conducting musical
concerts, dance and drama festivals and
poetical symposia since 1943, when he
organised Artists Corporation at Lahore
Once the founder Secretary-General of
Pracheen Kala Kendra, Chandigarh, he
has introduced best of the Punjabi art and
artists now through Kala Darpan. With
his magic voice, stagecraft and poetrystudded commentary he creates a lasting
rapport between
the artist and his
audience.

Born some 45 years ago in Punjab,
Mr. Dilgir has been working for the promotion of art. culture and literature for
than

more

written

25

years.

So far, he

has

more than 100 short stories for

various journals and magazines. His plays
have been equally popular with the A. I. R.
audience and readers. He is a member
of the Sangeet Natak Akademi and the
Tagore Theatre Managing Committee
Chandigarh. To him art is a mode of
worship. He thinks, the art that does
not elevate the spirits of man is no art
atall. He has a burning desire to establish
theatre in the villages of Punjab.

Mr. Dilgir is a published author of 8
books in three different languages, English,
Urdu and Punjabi
His latest work. a
collection of his one-act plays, MORCHE
WICH TE HOR EKANGI received an
award from the language Deptt. Punjab.
In 1967, his book of English verse
SCATTERED THOUGHTS published in
the USA. received a similar award from
the Sahitya Akademi, Chandigarh.

Last year Mr. Dilgir was awarded Robe
of Honour, SIROPA by the leading
artists of the State for his selﬂess service
to the State through performing arts.
Dr.

M.

S. Randhawa; while presenting

the Siropa said, “Mr. Dilgirhas made a
great contribution to the performing arts
and literature of the State. Devotion of
people for him is amply proved that inspite
of rain and cold they have come here to
offer their felicitations.”

He has many FIRSTS to his credit.
He was the ﬁrsr Indian to become a
Teaching Assistant in Theatre Arts at the
Emerson College. U. S. A, first Foreign
student at the Bosten University to receive
President Case’s Fellowship of the International Student Centre, ﬁrst to arrange
a cultural show at Chandigarh in 1953,
ﬁrst to revive Punjabi Kavi Durbars after
the partition of India, ﬁrst to establish a

“It is an irony of fate that our country
fails to recognise the importance of education in theatre arts. A play in the

hands of an inexperienced and unqualiﬁed
producer is like a patient in the hands of
a quack,” says Dilgir.

10

