Gold Medals for Kala Darpan Artist
International Punjabi Society presented two gold medals to K. Preet Pratima Kaur

३ in recognition of her contribution to Punjabi art and culture, at the time of their
annual day celebrations at Delhi recently.
Preet Prati ma had presented Krishna Leela and Puja in Kathanritya style

at the

Sapru House when Kala Darpan staged “Panorama of Punjab ’ which was presided
over by Shri I. K. Gujral. Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting.
S. Meharban Singh Dhupia, Hony. General Secretary of the International Punjabi Society while presenting bouquets on behalf of

the Punjabis of Delhi to Mr. H.S.

Dilgir, Executive Director of Kala Darpan, said. “All the Punjabis are proud of the
work being done by Kala Darpan and its talented artists to revive and propagate the
centuriesvold culture of Punjab. In recognition of their work we have the pleasure to

present two gold medals to their artist, K. Preet Pratima Kaur”.
It is a rare honour bestowed on any institute or artist from Chandigarh by a Delhi
organisation. Kala Darpan gave a repeat performance of their programme at the
Chelmsf’ord Club,

a part of which was viewed on television also on May 25.
— The Punjab Mail, May 31, I970

* This institution is doing a yeoman’s service in the cause of preservation of our culture

and the promotion of art...l hope they will go all over India and make whole of India
understand and appreciate the work done by them.
-——-Dr. D. C. Pavate. Governor, Punjab

* We are fortunate in having men like Dr. Randhawa and Mr. Dilgir in the State who
have been working selflessly for the promotion of arts.

S. Gurnam Singh, Former Chief Minister, Punjab
* I doubt if there is anyone in the auditorium who was not moved by the powerful
theme of the play (Maang Ka Sindoor) which so beautifully reminds us of the sacriﬁces
made by the freedom ﬁghters. I have been very much moved...

—Dr. Y. S. Parmar, Chief Minister, H.P.
* Second time when I was impressed by the powerful force of art was when Mr.
Dilgir presented a programme in Patiala.
— S. K. S. Narang, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University
* I congratulate the organisers and the members of Kala Darpan, Chandig
arh, for
taking a commendable step for promotion of classical music.

—Shri B, N. Chakravarty, Governor, Haryana
" An absorbing three-hour variety entertainment programme... gave the
Ravindralya
audience a faithful peep into the culture and tradition of Punjab. The program
me was
the ﬁrst of its kind in the city.
V
— National Herald, Lucknow
* The standard of performance of Kala Darpan artists‘ has
been very high.

—Dr. M. S. Randhawa, I.C.S.
12

