OF THE UNIQUE PHENOMENA
“Mrichch kat ika m ”

Hailed as a Shakespearean play written ten centuries
before Shakespeare, Shudrak's Mrichchkatikam holds
a unique place in Indian Classical Drama.
Singlehandedly, it refutes the stereotype of Sanskrit
drama as too unworldly, too sweet, too poetic and

hence unﬁt for modern staging. But, strangely, it is
not as popular as the plays of Kalidasa are. The reason seems to be that the West and its followers would
prefer to have a romantic, unworldly spiritual ancient

are depicted as contributing to the same end - enno—
bling, liberating and re-establishing harmony. The
evil, at the political level is annihilated but at the
human level is forgiven and is assimilated by the
good.
The play uses all the devices that The Natyasastra
has codiﬁed and freely violates some of the prescriptions, using the freedom, claimed and asserted by the
later commentators on Natyasastra. It moves freely

India and do not want to see it as a society of ﬂesh

and blood. The idealism which is the hallmark of
Indian art is taken as an impractical, escapist attitude.
towards life. “Mrichchkatikam” proves, in the terms
that are accessible even to the open minded West,
that the idealism of style is a real aspiration and the
impulses behind it are human, concrete and down-toearth.
As is the case with many Sanskrit texts, which
come from a society that did not give much importance to linear, chronological history, the date and
other historical data about the play and playwright
are not available. The Hindu revivalist tendency

to push all the best works of our tradition to as far
back in time as possible complicates the matter
further.
'
The play presents a prosperous but fluid soci—
ety where the class differences are very sharp. The
accumulation of wealth is in obscene proportions
to the poverty, and the fortunes dependent on trade
are quite unstable. There is a strong urge for up-

ward mobility which leads both to a principled life
and rebellion amongst the lower-classes.

The play presents a galaxy of rounded characters from all classes of society and conﬂicts of
universal nature - of economics, human relations,
rebellion, love and existential choice. The theme

of love and the sentiment of Sringara is predominant. The sweat and blood of real life, instead of

distracting, enhance and add flesh and blood to the
theme of love. The extremities of love and revolt

from transcendental poetry on love to the sweat and
blood of street ﬁghting. It balances the delicate and
stylised realism of anxious love with the raw reality
of daily life and poverty.
In its fluidity between the invisible emotions and
the roughness of life, the play is very Shakespearean
but the tone is less bitter, as if the play comes from
a vision in which life is a struggle for inner harmony,
inSpite of the turmoil out-side.
—Rajiv Velicheti

