OF‘ RELATED INTEREST

SHAKESPEAR EAN R EA LI SM
Everyone has a sort of shrewd suspicion that all great
art is “real," but nobody agrees on what the word
means. As a result, the very precise work involved in
staging a play can easily get muddled by a large band
of people valiantly seeking completely different
things.
Any eh i ld today knows that at any given moment
through his living room disembodied images are
invisibly floating toward the television set; he knows
that the substance he breathes called air (which he

cannot see but believes exists) is throbbing with
equilly concealed vibrations of musicians, comedians and BBC announcers. As he grows older, he learns
about the subconscious. Long before he is out of
school, he is aware that his father’s stolid silence
may be concealing a volcanic flow of pent-up hates,
that his sister’s blithe chatter may be a counterpoint
to an inner rumble of obsessive guilt.
By the time he is old enough to be a theatregoer
he will have already learned from ﬁlms if not from
life that space and time are loose and meaningless
terms: that with a cut the mind can ﬂick from yesterday to Australia.
So he will realize that the distinction between the
realistic play and the poetic one, between the
naturalistic and the stylized is artiﬁcal and very old-'
fashioned. He will see that the problem of the play
that takes place in a living room or in a kitchen is no
longer that it is too realistic but that it is not realistic
at all. He will realize that although the chairs and
tables are undoubtedly genuine, everything else smells
false. He will sense that the so-called real dialogue
and the so-called real acting do not actually capture
that totality of information, visible and invisible'that
corresponds to what he instinctively knows as reality.
So we come to Shakespeare. For centuries our
practical understanding of Shakespeare has been
blocked by the false notion that Shakespeare was a
writer of far-fetched plots which he decorated with
genius. Too long we have considered Shakespeare in
separate compartments, dividing the story from the
characters, the verse from the philosophy. Today we

are beginning to see that Shakespeare forged a style
in advance of any style anywhere, before or since,
that enabled him, in a very compact space of time, by
a superb and conscious use of varied means, to create
a realistic image of life.
Let me take a far-fetched parallel. Picasso began
to paint portraits with several eyes and noses the day
he felt that to paint a proﬁle—or to paint full face
was a form of lie. He set out to ﬁnd a technique with
which to capture a larger slice of the truth. ShakeSpeare, knowing that man is living his everyday life
and at the same time is living intensely in the invisible world of his thoughts and feelings, developed a
method through which we can see at one and the
same time the look on the man’s face and the vibrations of his brain. We can hear the particular rhythm
of speech and choice of slang by which we would
know him at once as a character in real life, with a

name, as though we met him on the street. But in the
street his face might be blank and his tongue silent——
Shakespear’s verse gives density to the protrait. This
is the purpose of the striking metaphor, the purple
passage, the ringing phrase. It can no longer be held
for one second that such plays are “stylized," “formalised" or “romantic" as opposed to “realistic."
Our problem is to bring the actor, slowly, step by
step, toward an understanding of this remarkable

invention, this curious structure of free verse and prose
which a few hundred years ago was already the
Cubism of the theatre. We must wean the actor away
from a false belief: that there is a heightened playing
for the classics, a more real playing for the works of
today. We must get him to see that the challenge of
the verse play is that he must bring to it an even
deeper search for truth, for truth of emotion, truth of
ideas, and truth of character—all quite separate and
yet all interwoven—and then as an artist find, with
objectivity, the form that gives these meanings life.
The problem for the actor is to ﬁnd a way of
dealing with verse. If he approaches it too emotion—
ally, he can end up in empty bombast; if he approaches
it too intellectually, he can lose the ever-present hu-

