ACT-WISE SYNOPSIS

Act I : Deposit Of Jewels

The gambler reveals that he is a masseur
(Samvahak) who used to serve Charudatta. Vasantsena

After the Purvarang, the Sutradhar meets
Charudatta’s friend and dependant, Maitreya and invites him for a ritual dinner. Maitreya refuses and
goes to his patron’s house. Charudatta is melancholic
over his ruined fortunes. Maitreya tries to lighten his
mood. Charudatta requests him to go to the crossroads to complete the evening ritual.
In a nearby lane, the famous courtesan Vasantsena
is being chased by the king's brother-in-law Shakar,
alongwith his henchmen, Vit and servant Sthavarak.
In the darkness, searching for her, Shakar reveals that

Charudatta's house is close-by. With a hint from the
Vit, Vasantsena reaches the house.

Charudatta insists on Maitreya‘s going out for the
ritual. Maitreya and a maid Radanika go out when
Vasantsena puts out the lamp in Radanika's hand and
sneaks in. When Maitreya goes into the house to light
the lamp, Shakar catches hold of Radanika, thinking
that she is Vasantsena. Maitreya ﬁghts them. Shakar
leaves, warning of dire consequences.
Mistaking Vasantsena for his maid, Charudatta
asks her to do some work. Maitreya comes to clear
the situation. The mutual affection of Charudatta and
Vasantsena is revealed. Vasantsena deposits her jewels in Charudatta's house as an excuse to continue the

pays his debt and gets him released. As a result of the
humiliation, Samvahak decides to become a Buddhist

monk.
Act III : The House-Breaking
Charudatta returns from a music concert and is full
of appreciation. Maitreya is irritated by the responsibility of safe-keeping Vasantsena’s Jewellery.
Sharvilak, a brahmin, an expert in house-break—
ing and a friend of Aryak breaks into the house but
is disappointed because there is nothing worth stealing. Maitreya, in his troubled sleep, dreams of bur—
glary and asks Charudatta to take care of the jewellery himself. Though Sharvilak is reluctant to take
the jewellery from a man who is asleep, his necessity
forces him to take it.
In the morning, Charudatta is full of appreciation
for the burglar's technical skill in house-breaking but
is worried about returning the jewellery. Dhuta, wife
of Charudatta gives her valuable necklace for this
purpose. Maitreya reluctantly leaves to give it to
Vasantsena.

Act 4 : Madanika & Sharvilak

acquaintance.
Vasantsena, immersed in her love for Charudatta,
Act II : The Masseur Turned gambler
Vasantsena shares her feelings for Charudatta with

her maid and friend Madanika.
In the gambler's street, a gambler, who had lost
ten gold coins in a game is trying to dodge the owner
of the gamble house and the winner. He is captured
and tortured. A ruined man Dardurak saves him by a
trick and leaves the city to join the forces of Aryak,
a cow-herd who is said to be destined for the throne.
The gambler takes shelter in the house of Vasantsena,
who offers him protection.

decliness the gifts of Shakar. Sharvilak comes looking for his beloved Madanika. He meets her secretly
and offers to free her from the bondage of Vasantsena
with the jewellery. Madanika recognises the jewellery and advises Sharvilak to return them to
Vasantsena, pretending to be a messenger of
Charudatta. Vasantsena overhears the conversation,

takes the jewellery and asks Sharvilak to take
Madanika as a gift from Charudatta.
It is declared that Aryak who is destined to be the
king has been arrested. Sharvilak sends Madanika to
a safe place and goes to save his friend.

