. ४५ ﬂ

Ramesh Eakshi, eminent young writer and journalist, has distinguished himself in the
ﬁeld of Hindi ﬁction. He has so far published 5 novels and 3 collections of short stories.
An art ﬁlm is under making on his novel
He is editor of a Hindi magazine “AAVESH".
“DEVYANI KA KAHNA HA1” is his maiden
ATHARAH SU RAJ KE PAUDHE.
p la y.

About the Play:
The play seeks to dissect the man woman relatiOnship which, to the playwright,
is nothing but bordem and intolerable meaninglessness. Devyani and Sadhan decided to live
together in a one room ﬂat in Delhi. Although they are not married, they tell their friends
and relatives that they are husband and wife. The entire play is broken into 3 parts which
explore different facts of the man woman relationship and analyse the reasons that cause their
coming together and drifting apart. The same relationship is explored on different levels
through introducing other characters in the play: Devyani’s father, Tiwaranji (the land lad )
Pateria and Shakuntala, lra and Suresh, Rajaram, (the servant), and Rekha Swaminathan ya

Press Reporter. They are an added comment on th: experiences that Sadhan and Devyani live
through in the three days of their life together.
This 3-day experience is shown as an
equivalent to the thirty years of a married life.

.
I Another equally strong idea in the play is to present two diagonally opposite hun
attitude in life 1 e. one which is calculative and scientific and the other which is s o it
Ian
and instinctive. Devyani’s revolt is against all that is rational and which is acIZeI
tadleous
right approach in life, a result of the over emphasis on system and restrictions in life
p e as a
But the main point of the play is not to condemn the s ystern
and reasoning in life
altogether. Devyani’s innerself too, perhaps knows the weaknes 5 of

her own outer approach.

This is why she is not able to out away from Sadha completely
has left him, there is something which binds them together

Although
.

apparently she

, A. «o- 4 4-

Playwright :

