A Few Words

it is Annual Day again.

It is the day when we. the members of the

Gosthi, are busy with our Annual Stock taking— our gains. our
achievements our losses and ouJ:_:failures. We may not bever
successful in a particular year as 'far as productidn is concerned

yet it is true that it may be year of improving self-discipline among
ourselves by re-organising the group.
'
We have no hesitation to tell our patrons that during the past one
year we did not win any prize in any competition. After the successful 20th Annual Day Function, when we had staged GHUGHU
—-we had a lean time. Though the drama was a hillarious farce

yet majority of the patrons could not eniby it. due to no n‘-functioning of air-conditioning plant तो t'he--~Fine Arts theatre- We
sincerely tender our apology forthe inconvenience" caused to our

patrons. During month of February ’82 the Gosthi had successfully
staged Badal Sircar's fantasy JOD I AAR EK BAR. The production
was neat, action was superb but again due to renovation work then

being undertaken at the Fine Arts theatre. our patrons had to face
some difﬁculties which were beyond our control. Bot-hgthe’plays
were ably directed by Robin Bhattacharya.

The GosthiIhad’SOme

set back during early 1982 When [our director and ex-se'cretary
h.
Robin Bhattacharya had been transferred to Arunachal Prades
as
We,
ion.
Funct
But this not the. cause of delayed Annual Day
which will 7
our patrons are aware, are devoted to present a 'drama

play of our liking
match discriminating taste of our patrons, the
ed to stage KANA
w a s di fﬁ c ult to ﬁnd and atlast' we have decid

we are" conﬁdent ३
MAMA a social satire by Shri Shyamal Sengupta,
of this drama which highthat our patrons will enjoy every moment
witty dialogue and intereslights social and political evils through

s.
ting build up of sequence
ry for not holding the Annual Day during
sor
We are indeed very
. you a II, that in 1983 we are, committed to hold
1982 but we assure
. _
-_;; दृ.
the Annual Day during - Septemb—ér-

d to
our a chievements during l981-82 was limite
It may appear that
i is
on 3 tage but we still happy that the Gosth
fewer apprearance
nineteen
th the same ur iity and Spirit as it was
still co-ordinating wi

years ago.
tude
prese nt here this evening and our grati
We thank all of you
to make

l wishers for their kind co-operation
to all advertisers, wel

the day a success.

l 1”:
'

