Three Arts 611/117
13-A/1, Mayur Vihar—l, Delhi-110091 Ph. 22757105 / 9810220016
E-Mail: threeartsclub@gmail.com

The Three Arts Club, a theatre group founded in the pre-independent India was one of the ﬁrst to
introduce theatre in its present form. Late Shri Om Shanna, Late Shr1 R. M .Kaul and Late Shr1 Dev1 Chand
Kayasth came together in 1943 and founded the Three Arts Club, comprismg primarlly government

employees.
The theatre group shuttled between summer capital: Simla and winter capital: Delhi. Its plays dealt

with themes reﬂecting the mindset ofpeople ofthose times. The famlly, clerk, servant, hawker, who one saw
in one's daily life formed the characters ofthe plays produced by the Three Arts Club.
After Independence, the club worked from Delhi and contributed immensely to the Theatre
movement. Three Arts Club presented its shows at the Prime Minister’s house 111 1954. The shows were

graced several times by luminaries like Dr. Raj endra Prasad, Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr. Zakir Hussain, Shri
Charan Singh, to name a few. Production ofThree Arts Club Children's plays by all adult cast was a new and
successful experiment and was inaugurated on May 1 1 , 1 96 1 at Sapru House by Late Shr1 Jawaharlal Nehru.
Working with no theatre auditoriurns and in testing times, the Club staged some amazing
productions. The Three Arts Club also had the distinction ofbringing on stage female artists for the ﬁrst time

in India. Late Smt. Saroj Bhargava was the ﬁrst woman artist to perform on the Delhi stage.
It was due to far sightedness of the three founder members that the club functioned successfully for
40 years and contributed greatly to the world ofTheatre. Late Shri M.N.Kapur, Late Shri R. M .Kaul and Shri
Rarnesh Mehta ﬁlled in effectively the need for visionary President, a dynamic & competent General
Secretary and a versatile Actor / Director. The excellent camaraderie between the three took the Club to great
heights.

It was the untimely death of Shri R.M.Kaul in the year 1983 that compelled Shri Rarnesh Mehta to
wind up the activities of the club. He felicitated the artists associated with the club and donated the
remaining amount to the Prime Minister Raj iv Gandhi's National ReliefFund. This again was a rare gesture
by an amateur theatre group.
Shri Rarnesh Mehta has been recently conferred with Sangeet Natak Akaderni Award for acting by
the Hon'ble President ofIndia, Srnt Pratibha Patil.

Late Shri R.M.Kaul's daughter Smt. Anuradha Dar, a keen enthusiast in promoting Indian art and
culture 18 reviving the club on the occasion of 25‘h death anniversary of Shri R. M .Kaul popularl
y known as
Raja Kaul in the theatre circle. She is, assisted in her endeavour by Shri Rarnesh Mehta,
Dr. Sadhna
Bhatnagar and Shri D .C .Pandey, IG Police Lucknow.
The ﬁrst event is a three day Drama Festival at Shri Ram Centre, Safdar
Hashmi Marg, New D€1hi as
per the schedule given below:
'
May 1 1: PAISABOLTAHAI: Manchkriti, Lucknow; Direct
or:

Mr. D .C .Pandey / Mr. Gopal Sinha

May 1 2 : UNDER SECRETARY: Akansha Theatre Arts, Luck
now; Director: Mr. PuneetAsthana
May 13: BADEAADMI: Three Arts Club, Delhi; Direc
tor: Dr. Sadhna Bhatnagar
I
The Three Arts Club, an amateur group will continue
working for promotion of Art and Culture
through the medla- ofdance, drama, muSIC and other art forms.
It will strive to work for social causes and to
uplift soc1ety. It proposes to extend its activities to educat
ional institutes with the aim of promoting
histri

onic skills among the new generation so that this ﬁne art does
not die a slow death due to the ravages of
the beam pace ofllfe.
’
I

