R. M. Kaul- The Role Model, Chief Executive of Indian Amateur Theatre
-Reoti Saran Sharma

It is said that very few modern theatre practitioners have learnt some basic lessons from
the astounding success ofthe Parsi commercial theatre companies that ﬂourished in Gujarat and
Maharashtra towards the end of 19‘h century. These companies not only revived theatre in India
after a gap of around 1,000 years but established that to strike roots and proliferate, theatre
requires not only playwrights, performers but management experts as it is 51% persuasive art
and 49% business.
After a successful run of over half a century the Parsi theatre companies closed down as
the silent cinema had become talkie cinema, thus becoming more entertaining. But a new theatre
rose from its ashes- a theatre of 'no proﬁt' but of cultural entertainment. It was baptised as
amateur theatre culturally oriented. Academicians, government employees and social activists
formed clubs and through subscriptions, donations and advertisement revenues performed
plays and cultural programmes. During the British rule, government ofﬁces would shift to Simla
during summer and return to Delhi during winter. In S irnla Gaiety Theatre built by the Britishers
prompted theatric lovers to set up dramatic clubs. It is in Simla, that an amateur theatre club
called 'Three Arts Club' was set up by a group ofgovernrnent employees in l 943 . R. M. Kaul was
one of its promoters, General Secretary, along with Shibu Jhoshal, Janki Sharma and Darnodar
Joshi, the leading actor. The club used to perform both in Simla and in Delhi. I ﬁrst met R. M.
Kaul around 1950 at his residence when Ramesh Mehta, who later became the star playwright,
actor and director ofThree Arts Club, had j oined Three Arts Club and was scheduled to read one
ofhis plays. Mr. Joshi had invited me to join, though I was not a member ofthe club. I was struck
by R. M. Kaul's personality, tall, fair and scholarly looks. Unlike me he was quiet and selfcontained. After the play reading was over everybody except R. M. Kaul spoke about the play.
His face did not display his likes or dislikes of the play or the comments made on it. He quietly
went inside and soon the tea was served. Amidst the chattering over cup of tea and snacks the
quiet Kaul was only ensuring that the serving plates were not empty. He did not exchange a word
with me but the way he saw me off, indicated that he had courtesy, respect and warmth in
required degrees.

In 1960, I switched over from radio plays to stage plays. Establishing my theatre group
'Kala Sadhna Mandir’ I joined Delhi Natya Sangh and Bharatiya Natya Sangh, the theatre
federating groups that Smt. Kamla Devi Chattopadhya had established to deal with local andAll
India problems oftheatre. Three Arts Club was represented by R. M. Kaul and J. N. Sheopern. It
was there that I came to know about the structure of Three Arts Club, which then was at
commanding heights among the amateur theatre groups of Delhi and Northern India. Its
president was Mr. M. N. Kapur, the principal of Modern School, Barakhamba Road. He ﬁne
tuned the approaches and policies ofThree Arts Club. R. M. Kaul and his managing committee
members with clearly deﬁned responsibilities looked after all the ﬁnancial and administrative
matters, providing technical support for staging plays at Delhi and other cities. Ramesh Mehta
as the playwright, actor and artistic director exclusively dealt with play production unconcerned
w1th ﬁnancial or management problems.
i

