-

As the General Secretary, R. M. Kaul played the pivotal role of ensuring the almost

irnp0331ble- that for 40 years an association of artists elected democratically and prone to be
bitten by rivalry, jealously, egoism and lure of power and money worked like a closed ﬁst of
hand and shared the glory ofeach otherjoyously.
True, Three Arts Club had in Mr. M. N. Kapur, keenly involved but non-interfering
President and in Rarnesh Mehta a rnesrneric dramatist, actor and director, yet the credit for
keeping the ﬂock together for four decades goes to R. M. Kaul. The fact that everyone addressed
him as Raj a Bhai bears testimony that he never played one against the other: that for him all were
equal; none was his favourite and each one was precious and equally indispensible.
I noted these qualities of R. M. Kaul not in Three Arts Club but in Delhi Natya Sangh and
Bharatiya Natya Sangh. I. L. Das of LTG, R. G. Anand and Mr. Nayyar of Delhi Art Theatre
hotly contested to the President of Delhi Natya Sangh or of Bharatiya Natya Sangh. Even I was
wooed by one or the other groups to be part of their team. But R. M. Kaul neither contested nor
aligned, on the contrary, he was always elected the Vice—President or a member ofthe managing
committee as a consensus candidate. He was content to be what came automatically to him. In
the managing committee he was never the ﬁrst one to speak. He only spoke when he felt he must,
but without passion and with his typical equanirnity. Organizations of artists need such persons
who have the patience to speak last and to put a full stop to a discussion that has totally lost
relevance.
In an interview Rarnesh Mehta confessed to me that he did not much like me. Even J. N.
Sheopern selectively disfavoured me because I would not agree with him on all the matters. Yet,
R. M. Kaul put me to head the committee for celebrating the silverjubilee ofThree Arts'Club and
approached President Zakir Hussain to inaugurate. In reply to my protestation he said, “Forget
what my committee members say, our President Kapur Sahib and I are convinced what you
would say about Three Arts Club on the inaugural day, he or I would not be able to say.” For R.
M. Kaul the interest ofThree Arts Club was uppermost.
ya
As the former President of Delhi Natya Sangh and the General Secretary of Bharati
Sangh is no less
Natya Sangh, I would like to put on record that R. M. Kaul's role in the Natya
al rapport in the
signiﬁcant. His knowledge of the entertainment and belling tax and his person
the rules ofentertainment
entertainment tax ofﬁce signiﬁcantly helped Delhi Natya Sangh to get
tax on theatre relaxed on two occasions.
Award R. M. Kaul stood
In the matter ofselecting theatre persons for World Theatre Day
A dedicated theatre person to the
by my side in the managing committee to select only the best.
core: honest and stead fast, protagonist ofprinciples.
which has sustained amateur theatre
R. M. Kaul represents that class ofhurnan resources
and shall do so in times to come.

