M.N. Kapur
—Anuradha Kapur

My father, Shri M. N. Kapur, who was principal of the Modern School for 30 years, was very
closely associated to the art scene in post partition Delhi; during this time he was in fact very closely
connected with The Three Arts Club as well, one of the leading and most active theatre groups of that
time. He keenly supported art activity in the city by keeping in touch with practitioners of painting
photography dance and theatre whom he invited to work in the School so that the students ofthe Modern
School had occasion of learning from some ofthe leading artists in India. Theatre groups were offered
place to rehearse in the vast grounds of Modern School and at any one time , dotted across the campus, it
was possible to ﬁnd several young and upcoming performers and distinguished and well—known actors
rehearsing their plays. Such support was invaluable then as it is now, the lack ofrehearsal space hampers
most ofus even today when we want to make a play; so I believe my father was enormously prescient in
offering spaces for performance in those early and formative years ofperformance in Delhi.
My father's engagement with The Three Arts Club extended over many years. The creative team
of the rnulti faceted Shri Rarnesh Mehta, the capable organizer Shri R. M. Kaul, and my father, along
with the dedicated band of actors of The Three Arts Club ( among them my charismatic aunt Uma
Sahay), made possible regular and lively theatre in Delhi; The Three Arts Club used pack in an
enormous audience whenever they used to perform in the city; plays addressing contemporary social
issues were staple fare and were hugely popular with the spectators-the hypocritical values of the
middle class, the increasing divide between rural and urban India, the corrupting power of money, all
these ideas were communicated with a great deal ofzest, using satire and tragedy.
My father was also concerned with theatre for children and was very committed to initiating the
programme that The Three Arts Club undertook to perform for children in the 5Os and 60s. At that time
performances for children were rare and the initiative of The Three Arts Club in this direction was of
great signiﬁcance.
i
For me the memory ofthose years, communicated no doubt to me by my father - as I was then a
very young school child-is colored by a sense of enthusiasm commitment and excitement for and ofthe
theatre, which is the very engine that makes theater work today as it did then.

