Ramesh Mehta
— Anuradha Dar

Born on August 7, 1923 in the town of Jhang Maghiayana, where Heer of Heer—Ranjha fame was
born, Shrl Ramesh Mehta was destined to be a great theatre artist. Today, he is ranked as one of the most
outstandmg names in the history of theatre art in this country. His contribution to Hindustani drama remains

unparallel. Playwright, actor and director all rolled into one, Ramesh Mehta's has unfolded as a personality
that is, to say the least, gifted and extraordinarily charming. He is one ofthe very few who has achieved this
rare privilege ofhaving excelled in and performing all the three roles together.
Ramesh Mehta's plays are landmarks in Hindi theatre. Not only have his plays been translated into
numerous Indlan languages such as Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam etc but have been performed in many other
countries apart from India. The themes of his plays still ﬁnds relevance in our post-modern times and

continue to receive encore when they are staged today.
But, even this is not Ramesh Mehta's biggest achievement. Mehta's real contribution lies in
developing theatre as an art form in Delhi. This is evident from the fact because he also helped in forming the
theatrical clubs in many governmental departments, ministries, industrial houses and establishments in

Delhi. From All India Radio, to Doordarshan, to Prime Minister's House, to performing in front ofthe Indian
Armed Forces, Ramesh Mehta's plays have been staged everywhere. Through the Three Arts Club,
meticulously, a habit ofwatching theatre was inculcated in the people.
Ramesh Mehta has been awarded with Charnanlal Memorial Award for lifetime achievement;

Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi Award; Delhi Natya Sangh shield for best play-wright; Uttar Pradesh Sangeet
Natak Akademi Award; besides a long list of many other awards like the best playwright award etc. On
demi
February 26, 2008 the Hon'ble President of India, Smt Pratibha Patil conferred the Sangeet NatakAka
theatre.
to
ion
contribut
his
to
Award to him. The endless list of awards to his name still doesn't do justice
Ramesh Mehta, a true theatre lover, is almost like an institution in himself.

Today Ramesh Mehta's name stands unmatched in Indian theatre and he has been

for having sustained popular interest in amateur theatre.

chieﬂy responsible

