THREE ARTS CLUB
I came in contact with "Three Arts Club" for the ﬁrst time in the year 1962, when Mr. Ramesh
Mehtas Play " Under Secretary" was to be staged at AIFACS . One day around 4pm Mr. Kapur, Principal

ofModern School (where I was working) and Kaul Sahib, came to me to do very urgentjob i .e. to make a
big portrait ofthe hero ofthe play, latest by 5.30pm, which was to be used on the set ofthe play. Hero was
none other than "SAJJAN' one of the most popular movie star as well as the director and writer of
"Triveni Rangmanch-Bombay". He was my most favourite artist too, and was waiting in Mr. Kapur's
office. When I said I will be very happy to do thejob, he also came and the portrait was given with in an
hour,just before the show. Since that day my association with the club remained till it ceased to function,
and my association with " Sajjan Jee" remained life long.
As far I remember Mr. Kapur was the President, Mr. Kaul Secretary and Mr. Bharat Sahai
Treasurer of the Three Arts Club and Ramesh Jee the writer and Director of the most of the plays
produced and staged by the club. I saw many of the them and photographed as well since 1962. Three
Arts Club was one of the few most active Theatre Group of the capital city of India in those days and
regularly presented well staged plays related to social themes, as well as satires and some for children,
which I recall with fond memories. Some of the artists those who used to be regularly featured in plays
were Om jee, Mr. & Mrs. Sahai, Mr. Sungar, Mr. Saxena, Mrs. Bhargava, Mrs. Sharma and Rameshjee

himselfin many superb roles.

The other day, I was very happy to know from Ms. Anuradha Dar daughter of Mr. Kaul, that
"Three Arts Club" is being revived on the 25th Death Anniversary of Mr. Kaul and a Drama Festival is
being organized at Shri Ram Centre in the month of May. I am sure the new team of the "Three Arts
Club" will fulﬁll needs ofthe Theatre lovers and will reach new heights and glory which was achieved
by the club during its ﬁrst phase from 1943 to 1983 for 40 years

I wish one and all who are with Three Arts Club a very bright future and all success.

April 24, 2008

Q

T

“Ox .lec: U? Q;

i हूँकंरूर्खिगैदूँ \‘tcm U0, ‘UMFNM
Qua $0.1sz3

-९१९संजू-प्र-८१०बो८३११ष्ट्र९--संललि6३१झागा ८०५५१९२ _

