r के

r,

tu‘;

9n
Mob

9 छ । 09 5 हूँ है 2 5 r 2 a
98I089'9l3

INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL

Erma” शाक्ति: lomsm h टु

Sector 3 26. Ta] Expressway. Nouda
( CBSE Affiliation No. 2 | 3073 है i

f’wf ‘é'UWa‘ eYCOY '

"l-

S .C . Arora
M . A. , no .c. li .( U. K )
29/04/08

Vice - Chairman

(रप-हि-टिभी-पु-त्-:In our modern world, I have observed the present generation's obsession for science, information
technology and wealth. They desire to "know more" so that they can become better atjob-procurlng skills to
enable them to grab well paidjobs and they appear 'successful'.

Any society, where there is more emphasis on materialistic pursuits where hedonisrn begins to pervade, it
stagnates and that civilization begins to decay. To conquer the forces ofgreed, arrogance and violence in the
contemporary world, reﬁnement of the soul - Atma Samskriti - is needed. In any balanced society people
should not only try for intellectual growth but also endeavour to inculcate grace of the heart. In addition to
trying for those things which gives us existence it should develop those ﬁner and delicate values whichconstitude the grace of life. The easy and pleasant life made possible by science, technology and wealth is
not the essence ofcivilization. Literature, music, theatre, dance, etc. contribute to the making of a 'full man'.

Man's creative side is nourished by any kind of ﬁne art. Man's soul cannot be satisﬁed by wealth or learning
along: fulﬁllment ofMan abides in the pursuit ofﬁner points oflife. Poverty ofrnind requrires to be removed
by ﬁne arts: they discipline the emotions.

Creative productions, be it art, music, dance or theatre are the most effective means of achieving national

mtengration and international solidarity. All great art is the overﬂow of emotional intensity and heightened
vision. All art is universal in its signiﬁcance: it enlarges our sensibilities, puriﬁes our instincts and lifts us
above the mundane life.

The street levels among the younger age group are raising alarm bells all over the world but unfortunately
people are not able to utllise the "Sanjeevani booti" which is easily within their reach in the form offine arts.
Our negatrvrties disappear when we give expression to our feelings and emotions in any form.
Theatre, dance, music, art are great stress busters. It is in this context that I am happy that Mrs. Anuradha
Par, whowas a very sensrtive teacher with me, is reviving her father late Shri R. M. Koul's the Three Arts
Club, which wrll promote Dance, Drama, Music and culture in general. Fine Arts should be a
part of every

individual's life so that he/she can emote. Anuradha will be making a tremendous contribution towards
the
harmonious growth ofthe society.

३

I wish‘ M rs. Dar and her team the very best in this noble venture. All those who come
to know about the Three
Arts Club should whole-heartedly support its growth.

May the Three Arts Club continue to contribute to the society

W
(s .C. A R0RA )

for years to come.

