Three Cheers for the Amateur
—Keval Arora

into moanmg about the lack of
Every time a play comes over to Delhi from, say, Bombay, we fall
sllck, on the ball, and cool,
professionalism on the Delhi stage. Productions from elsewhere tend to look
capital 5 theatre, with some
regardless ofwhether these are light comedies or weightier texts. In contrast, the
boys. One reason for this gap in
exceptions, often seems like a little kid in shorts trying to run with the b1g

or Engllsh हुँ IS in the
standards could be that much of that city's theatre — be it in Marathi, Gujarati, H1nd1
make a living of this can be
hands of those who do it full—time. Actors, directors and technicians who

e cornrnumty
expected to deliver time and time again, which is more than can be said ofthe ﬂoating, part-tlm
that keeps most ofDelhi's theatre ticking over.
Admittedly, this is an age ofprofessionals and specialists. Even super specialists,.ifyou will. Persons
the
who invest great time and effort in studying and mastering their areas of expertise. Thls is no tune for
We are fed
dabbler and the amateur. For instance, take a look at the idea ofworth as enshrined in the media.

with innumerable accounts of a lifetime's training and concentrated passion, all duly rewarded by the pot
that beckons from the end of the rainbow. Part-time loves or temporary interests are rarely celebrated, and
then too only when there is a 'human interest' spin to the story.
Why should our stories of worth invariably be stories of dedication and expertise? Delving deeper

and deeper into narrower areas of interest is perhaps natural to some professions — for instance, medicine,
law and so on — because the method of exclusive perusal is intrinsic to the nature of the services they offer.
But, when a similar perspective shapes the general opinion ofthe urban educated towards all things trite and
dutiful, then one is no longer sure ofits value.

We have, over the years, grown into the habit of expressing appreciation by narrating the number of
the years and the quality of single-minded zeal spent in the pursuit of goals. It's a rule that everyone has
followed, praisers and players alike. When, for instance, was the last time you heard' someone acknowledge
praise with saying how things comes effortlessly to them? Most ofus would frown upon such confessions as
rude and disparaging if not downright immodest. Privately, we've all experienced the huge role that chance
and luck have played in our ﬁne achievements. Or, the fact that sometimes things have just fallen into place
without any perceptible 'extra' on our part. But, in public, we tend to join the herd in assuming that credit is
due only when there has been conscious intention and conscientious effort.
Don't get me wrong: there's nothing odd about single—minded devotion. After all, where would our
classical traditions be were we all to look at such absorption as rnonomania? My quarrel is not with those
who devote a lifetime to perfecting their passion. My quarrel is with lesser mortals like you and me who
imagine that this is the only way to be, or that nothing of value can be achieved without a surrender of other
interests and cares to the one grand passion.
Whatever happened to the amateur? Hey, what's wrong with having a casual interest in things? Our
cultural pre-disposition to believe that we need to excel at what we do has done more harm than good in the
nurturing of curiosity and interest. Or, in the moulding of balanced children, with their heads screwed on
right. Ifyou don't believe me, take a look at the hordes ofbustling parents hustling their kids through a course
. here and a workshop there, in the touchineg misguided conviction that something is worth doing only when
we do it well. And, that we do something well mainly when we are trained for it. As a result, we put so much
pressure on young children that they either rebel by dismissing all guided activity as a chore or acquiesce by
succumbing to a mindset that deﬁnes itself through constantly pitting itself in competition against
something else.
Yes, you do act better when you are taught the techniques. Or, ride a horse better when someone

shows you the ropes. But, unless you want to make acting or horse riding your bread and butter option you're
better off when left alone to discover the pleasures that these activities can give. And pleasure rather than
excellence 18 made your primary goal. It does not matter if someone else is 'better' at it than you are.
What

matters is your quality of engagement with your action. That's when you become an amateur in the Original

