sense ofthe word: one who does something for the love ofit rather than as a means ofbecorning the king-rat
in some rat race. If, in the process, you run the risk of embodying the more common understanding of the
word ('amateur' 1n the sense oflacking 1n experience and competence), then so be it.
The word 'professional' is perhaps the villain of the piece, for it has painted the amateur into the

corner of incompetence. A professional is not necessarily better than the amateur. Technically speaking, all
that separates him from the amateur is that he depends on his craft for providing him an income, while the
amateur's relation to his craft is not a pecuniary one. Remember when our sportsmen turned 'professional'?
Overnight, they began to get paid for showing the same application, or lack of it, on the ﬁeld. (Today of
course, cricketers have demonstrated that they are professional at more things than we dreamed were in their

philosophy.)
Sure, the professional usually spends more time on his craft than does the amateur who often also has
other things to do. To that extent, the best amongst the professionals tend to be technically more sound, more
disciplined, and more organised in approaching work as compared to amateurs. This obviously has its

advantages, but there is a negative Side to it as well. The professional tends to fall away over a period oftime,
scoring in precision rather than passion, and dependability rather than ability. When the amateur gets bored,
he quits. When the professional gets bored, he falls back on mimicking the things that he once used to do
well; in other words, he falls back on technique. In this sense, the amateur's raw freshness remains an
attractive option to the cooked competence ofthe professional. To return to cricket: there are more cricketers
that are professional in England than in any other country, but it is a moot question whether England has a
cricket team at all.

I am reminded of a comment that Ebrahirn Alkazi, who did so much to establish a professional
integrity in our theatre, once made to students of his school, the Living Theatre. For all his commitment to
the stage and his passion for performance, Alkazi recommended that his students not enter full-time into the
theatre. He argued, paradoxically, that only those with separate sources of income can do justice to their
passion for the art. Those who depend on theatre for a living will ﬁnd themselves compromised at several
steps, consenting to accept assignments they never would have looked at otherwise. Professional actors may

well bear the marks ofsuccess, but it is the amateurs who more often than not keep the ﬂag ﬂying high.
If Delhi's theatre was at its vibrant best in the seventies, it is particularly because ofthe quality of its
amateur members. Most groups were so populated with young students that these sometimes appeared no

different from student theatre groups. And these groups had all the vivacity of a youth theatre. It showed in
the kind of scripts chosen, the styles adopted and the general air of adventurisrn that characterised their
projects. Members worked without payment, and they worked hard. Nobody made any money. (If,
hallelujah, a production did not end up in the red, the surplus was usually kept aside as seed money for the
next.) That helped keep costs down to some extent. Rather, it kept costs down enough for one to look upon
these members and their labour of love as the true sponsors of this theatre. The groups were not always
politically inclined, but they did not do plays with an eye to the box—ofﬁce or social acceptability. The media
was not then ever waiting, ready to devour or deify. Professional theatre did not then exist, except in some
government-supported repertories: the NSD Repertory, the short-lived Puppet Theatre Repertory run by the
Shri Ram Centre, and Shiela Bhatia's group, to name a few. One sign ofthe absence ofthe professional actor
was that there were few older actors around; the roles of elderly people were invariably played by

recognisany young people.
That has all gone. The proﬁle oftoday's theatre audience seems to have generally widened even as in
actual numbers it may well have shrunk. Plays now have large budgets and groups are therefore less inclined

to be bold in their choice of scripts. Things have become more 'professional' — expecting to be paid
something at least is not an inconceivable or obscene idea — but they have also become more sedate. People
do still come into the theatre, but they now tend to come armed with a curriculum vita waiting to be ﬁlled.
The amateur is now no longer a state of mind. It is merely a temporary state in the great chain of

transformation from the novice to the professional.

(An earlier version of this article was first published in FIRST CITY, September 2000)

