Director’s note

Epic is the form and Radha Krishna are
the characters — penned by

Dr. Dharmveer Bharati. An image
emerging as a whole, ocean contained in
the drop, that is KANUPRIYA.

zeal and vigour and hard work. Colleagues from technical departments and
administration too helped and became it
possible.
I must express my personal sense of

Whether about the theme or the interpretation of it or the talk about traditionbound emotions or about modern
sensibilities, from every aspect it encompasses the elements of time in itself, yet
goes bayond time this is Kanupriya.
Kanu's beloved —— Krishna's Radha.
Radha who constantly feels Krishna's
presence even in his absence, and an
absence even as he is present. This
makes Radha the Kanupriya.
She explores deeply the questions of
meaning of fulfillment, she confronts the
self and treads with ease the vast unknown terrain of her own quest. It is this

simplicity that makes Radha, Radha.
Radha whose existence itself is Krishna,
embarks on a journey of self and ’feels
Krishna journeying too. Krishna had
created this path for her journey, on

which she attains the self. But after
Krishna cought in the whrilpool of the
world, finds himself confounded and

questioning the very path he himself had
created. He finds himself strangely at the
very origins of Kanupriya's journey’Who am I? . . . who are you to me.’ He

now has to begin at the beginning of the
journey. Kanupriya waits for him —
und etterred .
One has aimed at evolving a production
from within the theatrical idiomes that
include peforrners and elements of
artistic expressions without distorting the

orginal poetic form or the essence of it.
To quantify or to explain the achived or
unttainable in the process should be
possible after the production has hap-

pened and one has seen it through. I look
fon/vard to that. So here it is.

This production was impossible in a
limited time. All the artists of repertory
company got involved creativity, with

gratitude for Madam Kirti Jain and

Anuradha Kapoor who helped me from
time to time. Madam Nibha Joshi
guidance has been like a leadinglight. i
must express my profound gratitude to
Madam Anamika Haksar also for the
training recived from her.
This Kanupriya is dedicated to Kanupriya
itself.
Nikhi/esh Shanna

