NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA REPERTORY COMPANY
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in

tours extensively all over India and has made several

1964-65 on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi.

successful trips of Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal

In the beginning, it consisted of only four actors,

and Mauritius.

musicians and technicinas, mainly drawn from gradu-

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in
ates of the National School of Drama, Delhi. ln 1964
1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary through a
late Shri Om Shivpuri led the company and later in

major festival of his plays.
1977, Shri Manohar Singh became the first regular
Chief of Repertory. When Manohar Singh left the

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of phototgraphs,

Repertory Company in 1985, for a short period Ms.

set models, costumes, properites, posters etc. of

Uttara Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sirkri looked after

Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on

the functioning of the Company. Later Shri J.N.

the occassion of the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of

Kaushal officiated as the chief till 1988. From 1988 to

the Company. It is a permanent exhibition designed

1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was heading the corn-

by Shri Bansi Kaul.

pany. From 1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal was again
Acting Chief of Rep. Co.

Anuradha Kapur

Business Manager

T.R. Bakshi

functioning as acting Chief.

of plays ranging from stylized musicals to realistic

Technical Director (Lighting) GS Marathe
Sound Technician
S.N. Dasgupta

contemporary works of Indian drama to translations

Music I n charge

Om Prakash

and adaptations of foreign languages plays. Eminent

Wardrobe I n charge

Gursharan Kaur

directors of national and international repute from

Workshop In charge

Abdul Hakim

within the country and abroad have worked with the
Company.

Box Office

S. P. Shanna

Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety

Neelarn Kapoor

Repertory has performed over hundred and twenty

Rarnesh Athwal

plays by seventy playwrights and has worked with fifty
directors. Quite a few of the actor of the company

S. R. Yadav
T.R. Bhatt
Di rector,

have emerged, over the years, as celebrities in
theatre, cinema and television of India. The Repertory

National School of Drama

Ram Gopal Bajaj

