Director

Shri Bajaj is the founder member of the Theatre
Groupe ”Dishanter“. He has keen interest in
playwriting romantic texts and translated many English and Marathi Plays in Hindi. Shri Ram Gopal Bajaj
is a wellknown director in the field of theatre. His few
famous plays are: Mohan Rakesh’s Bahut Bada
Sawal, Aashad Ka Ek Din, (also in Punjabi), Badal
Sarkar’s Ant Nahin, Tagore’s Mukt Dhara, (also in

Punjabi) Jainshankar Prashad’s Sakandgupta,
Surendra Verma‘s Surya Ki Antirn Kiran Se, Surya Ki
Pahli Kiran Tak and Qaid-E-Hayat., Tolstoy’s Pap Aur

Ram Gopal Bajaj

Prakash, Gorki's Talghar, Chekhov’s Seagull,
Vidyadhar, Pundlik’s charuvak and Dharamvir

Bharti’s- Andha Yug.
Shri Ram Gopal Bajaj was born in the year 1940, in
North Bihar, In the year 1960 he did his graduation

Apart from direction, he has also acted in more than

from Patna University. And in the year 1965, he

50 plays and has been also associated with Cinema,

specilized in acting from National School of Drama.

Doordarshan and Radio.

From 1965 to 1967, he was an active member of

He was honoured by National Press India (1992) and
N.S.D. Repertory Company. Later on he joined
Modern School as a Drama Teacher and directed
more than 50 plays for the children. He joined as
Reader in Punjabi University. He was also associated
with Punjabi University Patiala as Head of the
Drama Department in 1973. In the year 1985 he joined
as Acting Professior in the National School of Drama.
And from 1988 to 1994 he was Chief of the NSD
Repertory Company and at present he is working as
the Director of the National School of Drama.

Sahitya Kala Parishad New Delhi (1991-92) for his

contribution in the field of Culture. The Sangeet Natak
Akaaderni honoured him with an awared for all round
contribution to the theatre in 1996. He has participated in the ”Vishwa Hindi Sammelan“ in the year
1993.
He has travelled abroad for lectures and seminars

amongst the countries he has visited are Russia,
France, Rurnania, Denmark & Sri Lanka.

