DI RECT O R |AL
The play "BHOOKH AAG HAl" was introduced to me

and described objects should be visualised and be

by Shri Bhanu Bharti. He wanted to do it himself and

only suggestive. The factual reality should be exploded

more than that he was interested that this should be

and the internal truth should be explored. Initially one

done. Somehow he could not have been called at that

had also talked to Shri Manjit Bawa but it could not

time and it was decided that I will do it. । didn’t have

work out because of the timing factors.

the opportunity to attend the public reading of the play
I am grateful to my colleague and descerning artist-

but when I read it alone in a deep night it disturbed me
director, Robin Das, for having accepted the
and also I was scared since it was a very different play

responsibility of designing the sets, costume and
in its structure and also in its statement. I felt there are
properties. This has helped me during the rehearsals
glimpses of absurd plays. However, the despair of the
and the images so understood have been enriched. i
absurd was overwhelmed by the compassion and

am also grateful to Shri Bhaskar Chandavarkar for the
anquish as I felt. I requested the author for the

music and some suggestions and to Sh. Ashok Sagar
permission and he hesitantly, perhaps, conveyed his
Bhagat for the lighting.

consent. In the production one felt that we should
depend more on actors. They alone should bring out

All the colleagues of the Repertory initially were

the internal disconstruction, inconsistencies and

apprehensive and later on they participated fully and

discomfort. Therefore, much time was given to the

were insipred which has also helped the production. l

rehearsals of the text rendering and speech variations.

have the hopes that theatre lovers will not be

I am really indebted that the groups of actors

disappointed by this production and if it does, I am to

displayed hard work and sensitivity during the

blame.

rehearsals. There was also an idea that its design

- Ram Gopal Baja/
should be visualised by some painter and the scenic

