T H E PRODUCTION

Nautanki is a traditional folk-theatre form of Northern
India with emphasis on music and narration rather than
acting. In this respect the two styles of this age-old art,
namely
opposed

Kanpuri and Hathrasi Nautankis, lack variety as
to the various South Indian Folk Theatre forms,

which are a combination of acting, dancing and music.
in Kanpuri Nautanki the lack of Ras tradition of Hathrasi
style has been supplemented by the introduction of some
glamorous elements from Parsi theatre.
It is neither possible, nor is our aim to present
Nautanki in its original form. Our play is an effort to
discover the possibilities of this traditional style in the
newer and contemporary context; which we trust is also
the purpose of this festival.
The basic theme of our play has been inspired from
Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena's play “Larai"-a thought provoking story which throws doubts on the old ideals and values
as compared to the situations in the world to day. The
central character of our play, Master Haria is a renowned
professional Nautanki artist, who, while portraying Raja
Harishchandra on stage night
after night gets so
hypnotized with the character, that one day he vows before
the Godess to be truthful and honest like the character he
portrays in his real life also. From this point onwards
Master Haria’s problems really start and provide food for
thought and make us wonder if such a life is possible in
today's world.
It has been our endeavour to preserve the spirit of
Nautanki but at the same time trim out the exaggeration
of rnellodrarna where necessary. The language of the play
is a mixture of Avadhi, Bundeli and Brij as spoken in small
towns. The entire play is presented as a combination of
Kanpuri and Hathrasi styles, with a few extracts from
Ustad lnderman's and Pundit Natha Ram Gaur’s Nautanki
"Satya l-larishchandra". At certain places use has also
been made of poetry of Dushyant Kurnar and Dhoornil.

Address :
Secretary, Darpan, Chikan Mattel, 1, Subhash Marg, Lucknow-226 003
Phone : 47888, 72393, 71506

