themselves products of the new capitalism of economic liberalizstion and development programmes pursued by the Indian rulling class where art was no
longer a creative enterprise of human beings in doubt or turmoil.

However,

many Indian directors began to delve in performative cultural traditions of spe.
cific regional areas thereby leading to enrichment of forms, expressions and
of new kaleidoscopic variety, multi-faceted and diversiﬁed. Their place of exposure were the festivals and workshops and internationally sponsored programmes through consummate impressarios The integration of technology,
media, market sources of management, patronage and productive channels
have built up the the new identity of the contemporary theatre. This new
identity of Indian theatre has rised certained problems with great ramifications
on the regional theatre movement in an area of uneven development like
Manipur.

The impact of the search for regional forms for a national cause reached
the entire pan-Indian geographical frontiers in the seventies. The theatre
that became predominant when the regional identities of the theatres in
Kerala, Maharastra, Karnataka, Manipur etc. have sprung forth with tremendous energy created markers for national identification and development
Here passing mention maybe made of Kerala where the new search for tra
dition for contemporary meaning were ushered in by the Kalari movement and
and later by stalwarts like C,N. Srikantha Nair, G. Sankara Pillai. K. Ayappa
Panikar. M. Govindan and MC Deven etc. The new theatre movement came
to be known as Tanatu Natakavedi, where local indigenous dramatic traditions
were utilized for contemporary messages. Western symbolism and expression
ism also influenced many play-wrights in the formative periods oi the contemporary Malayalee theatre. Sankara Pillai's plays were outstanding constructs
which reflected various phenomena of life with contemporary significance,
in metaphoric, symbolic and imagistic form (K. Panikar 1995, P. 159)

Maharastra had a peculiar upsurge of creative writers and creators who
not necessary went for traditional roots, but effected more humanistic outbursts from the environment of men of post-industrial Indian society, Achut
Vaze, Vijay Tendulkar, C.T. Khanolkar Satish Alekar, Mahesh Elkunchwar, directors like Satyadev Dubey, Vijay Mehta, Iabbar Patel, playwriters like Shyarn
Manohar, Shaff'at khan etc. conjured up images of complexities and tensions of
post-industrial life in a splash of creative energy which the critics called the
free, parallel theatre of Maharastra. These new creations from Maharastra were
resplendent with modernism, but with a subtle tinge of nationalistic, typically
Marathi, but reflecting universal human sentiments of great depth and vision
G.P. Despande was” a stalwart who dealt with celebral competence the rela-

371'

