areas, the immediate psychological association by modern Indian and internationnal audiences as belonging to mainstream Indian theatre efforts and capable of reflecting deeper spiritual Indian values as well as the modern, universal
Indian ternpararnent.
Look at the ways in which the intercity and inter-regional networks of plays of regional writers in circulation
and directors interpreting human concerns in many capitals of the north, south
and the southeast. in cities like Delhi, Bombay, Bangalore, Calcutta etc,

The

way Vijay Tendulkar, Girish Karnad, Mahesh Elkunchwar, Manoj Mitra, Mohan
Rokesh, and had been successfully translated and adapted in various languages
and regional
ideoms show the easy manner in which primordial relashionships of inter-regional cultural and emotional integration occured between these peoples with an undersying unity of thought and practice, a humaneness of shared vision and expected values and behaviour. In a sense
the Indian national concept was not hindered, but rather enhanced by these

regional ideorns and styles,

I

How about the case of the plays of Rattan Thiyam and Kanhailal’?
Could
Chakravyuha and Pebet be translated into other regional languages and idioms
and shall they have the same experience as that of other writers ? Shall the answer be that it has no been tried '? Here lies a deep semantic snag and deep
psychdcultural contradication the writer would like to probe further.
Plays from other developed regions, be it big cities or metropolises in
different regions of India, whether they were of modernist nature or of a semiurban rural consciousness, with the complexities and behavioural» tendencies
or perceptions from industrialized pspchological complexes even had a distinct
Pan-Indian universalness, which any , India could adopt as their own. Karnad’s
Tuglag or Naga Mandala could be totally nothern Iddian or even extra-Indian in
out look, temperament or emphasis.
Psychological complexes which dramatur-

gical efforts develop. the reasoning behind the realities of tension and confrontation could belong to the universal human emotions, but the patterns of expressions, behaviour and other cultural inputs into these dramatic unfoldment would

be absolutely alien to modern audiences at Imphal,

The study of audience reac-

tion toSanakhya Ebotombi'smany Indian plays would help analyze this issue
further. Though many of the Indian plays done in Manipur had some esoteric,
elitist and dominance complex motivations which left the audience in awe, but
true integrated association and identification with the issues, characters and
problems in Indian drama would be difficult for contemporary audience
at Imphal.
One could appreciate of the form, the idioms, production
values, and whatever these speritual efforts provide, but true emotional,
psychological and perceptual association with the plays themselves would
be ephemeral. Modern Indian products in drama at lmphal would be

esoteric.

media-dependent and alien to the realities of Manipuri society. It has no dimensions of difference from the consumer designer products from mainstream India,

(29

