issue developed beca use both thesetwo statwarts saild the same boat of accepting
c0mrnodity value of their art and trying to steer into the highly complex dynamics
of the market economy through which they intend to climb the ladder of recognition. success and profit. Culture of uneven development which they carry , in
in their behaviour and attitudes, communication modes with are inborn in them
Would however alienate them from the very world which they thought were in
their grasp. These are issues of people from areas of under development who
however with great effort stuggled to encounter the culture of commodity production and its complex features thereby resulting to great stress to their persorulities and world view, due to its underlying tensions. They however should
not be blamed for they have chosen this path as their avowed profession and
destiny. For them, as Ernst Fisher had said, “Main is aothing, success is all”.

THEATRE AS PROCESS :
Theatre as commodity would then suffer in areas of uneven development
where production has been arrested and the economy deprived of a natural ﬂow
of goods , services and infrastructure. The tensions in the economy provide
unusual stresses and strains whereby perceptions and value system undergo
ﬂux and changes. However, according to the law of uneven development of art
and economy, in an economically inferior society art can ﬂourish to a degree not
found in a society with a more highly developed economy. In no precapitalist
society was material production in principle hostile to art, not even at its very
origins in primitive society. In principle, the hostility of material production to
art is only found under capitalism (Adolfo Sanchez Vasquez. 1965 P. 161).
It is the acceptance of the capitalistic principle and regarding of artistic production as a means of exchange which brings forth complications and tensions in
human behaviour. The relationships are all the more compounded when a
society, semi-feudal and suffering problems of modernization release forces
which dehumanizes people and subvert their natural behaviour. Under such
social economic conditions, theatre as commodity product distrupts processes of
natural equilibrium of man.

An alternative paradigm for theatre development has emerged in Manipur
which had not attracted much attention because of its low proﬁle methods
of working culture and practice. It has no pretensions to transform its activities as products, but it has started probing deeper and deeper into ground realities of society’s connection with art and meaning of processes. The study of
internal aspects of culture and its ramifications,, the energy they generate to
create the world of art, ethnic realities of response to pressure and
assimilated structures inherent in the world 21 being—all these are studied to
experience the core areas of creativity. The more one probes into the inter-

3 'I

