Contemporary Manipuri Playwright
Present Perf’ormative Situation and Vision
Of The Future
Ara mb a m S a morendro-

Though Manipur had an aged old performence tradition, the contact with
Western Drama was rather a late affairs, It was a new experiance for the young
generation of the first two decades of the 20th century to see plays performed
at Bawa-Charan Bundhav Natyasala (1903) and participated in plays organisedby the Education Department and the Johnstone High School during the annual
Swaraswati Puja Festivals. It was Bengalee plays and in 1914 ‘Partha-Parajay’
was translated by Khaidem Nongyai. a teacher and staged as a school play.
The young students of that period were enthusiastic with this artsform and
with their preliminary exposure to western drama on the world 'of Bangalee
plays they carried on producing plays by organising drama. groups when
they returned home after completing their higher academic studies from
sylhet, Gauhati and Dacca. 'I‘ranslations from D.L. Roy and others were
staged by the newly educated youths. The thirties were all active period for
such type of drama productions and it led to the birth of Theatre Houses,
i.e. the Meitei Dramatic Union (1931 है it became Manipur Dramatic Union after
sometimes) the Aryan Theatre in 1935, the’Society Theatre in 1937 etc.
Heavy custurned western Drama, with melodramatic acting and stylised
speech was really a fad for the drama aspirants of the period and Kshetrimayum MunalSingh, an Inspector at the Education Department who hailed from
Cachar was the main architect of this genre of play. He with Khwairakpam
Nabakishwar Singh, a teacher and a gifted actor was responsible for the building up of Prosceium Drama in Manipur. These two ‘ojhas' (teachers)
and
other teachers who hailed from Cachar and sylhet were acquinted with Beng
ales
Dramas during their student period. When they came to Manipur th
ey took
keen interest in performing Dramas and it became an annual affair for
the
Education Department to stage a play annually at the Swaraswati Pujah fe
stival. But almost all the plays were Bengalee and it naturally evoked a
1iking in the minds of the theatre aspirants as well as the audience of
the
period to see an original Manipuri Drama. Thus the first Manipuri Dram
a
'Narasingh‘ was staged on the 80th of September 1925 at the Palace Co
mpound

4. 1.

