writers explored the rich treasurers of our folk cultures and discovered the folk
legends and stories out of which they built up beautiful plays. ‘Yaithingkonu'
'Pidonnu’ 'Haoran Leishang Saphabi' etc. were popular plays and it gave .a fresh
impetus to Manipuri Drama with native colour and taste.
With his involvement to Manipur theatre with the establishment of
the
society Theatre in 1937 and (3.0. Tongbra took to playwriting in 1940
and
though he belonged to the group of writers of post second world wa
r period,

he was an exception of the fold. Belonging to the poor class of the soceity
Tonga
bra felt the problems of the have-nots in his youth and his critical mind
studied
the c0ntradictions and the anomalous situation of the society and ma
ns life in it
and he brought forth many plays one after another mostly say ﬁv
e and half
decades and he didn't stop writing upto' his last stage (1996). There are
some
100 plays to his credit and when we talk of Contemporary Manipuri play
wright
we are bound to have a look back to GO. Tongbra. this extra-ordinary writer
.
He is very critical on the system and serious on the condition .of men who
are similar at the time of birth with a bodv and a soul but different when they
grow up in the society where the previledged takes all the advantages and the
underdogs suffer in their effort to keep the body and soul together. He is con;
cerned on the notion 'Man is born in bondage. lives in bondage and dies in bondage.’ He sees the condition of man in a tragic dimension and cries over it.
Therefore in order to redeem mankind from it he writes for man to become
Wiser, good, understand himself and the society.

severe attackes

on

In his later writings he makes

'Democracy' which instead of liberating man, enslaves,

exploits and corrupts.

‘

But his forte being wit and humour and his gift of the god make the andience
laugh-instead and pines over his fate of the ‘Midas touch'
‘

There are other writers who are a little bit junior to (3.0. Tongbra like Kh.
Tolhal Singh ('I‘haballei, Mataulei) Mr. Ramcharan (Ningol. Laibak) S. Ibomcha
(Yokohalei,
etc. who wrote many plays but mostly, on melodramatic format

with love. hate, good and evil conflicts where as Sanagthem Bormani concentrates on the Meitei Polk story themes.

Next to these writers there are quite a good number of writers who are
actively involved in the present day Manipuri Theatre, Arambam Somorendra
(b. 1935-]udge Sahebki Imung, Dasa, karbar. Leipaklei etc) is an active writer
associating with the Manipuri Theatire since the fifties, He with other W.W- II
(kanhailal- b 1941 , P. Shmu b 1942-1980), Athokpam Tomchou b 1944 etc. built

up view standards of playsiting. Their groups of writers felt the pulse of the
43

