PE RF‘O R MAT IVE S I 'I‘ UA 'I‘ I O N .
In the olden days. the performative situation a written play was that when
a script reached a theatre group it was studied by some one or a group of knowledgeable persons for examining the merit of the text as well as its performance
worthness Usually. the leading director was the authority on this matter.
He was the authority, to give neccesary guidelines as to the manner of the
production and infusing life to the play with physical action. If the play
was found perfect it was produced in toto and if not it was amended and
even improved to make it stage—worthy. The accepted convention of the period
was to keep the script intake as written by the writer. The writer was taken
as the authority of a play and a directors duty was to make it more on the
stage. Their phrase 'Literature that walks’ was an accepted concept, appreciated and revered.
But sometimes, in cases of improvement, resufling of scenes, combinations

as well as divisions of scenes were carried out. Such cases happened when
the scripts are from writers who have not thoroughly mastered the art of
play writing.

But in
the
contemporary
period, with evolution of the alternate
theatre,
the
perforrnative
situation of a written play has changed
radically.
The latest trena of the alternative theatre in the metamorphosis
of a play into a Directors work or a Directors Play.
In such a situation,
the director concieves his own line of play, building not necessarily follo.
wing what is written in a play by the playwright, The Director tries to retain
the basic skeleton and transforms the body to what he thinks best and tries
to communicate the essence to the audience. The essence of the play is the
vital area where the playwright and the Director meet.
In his attempt to
communicate

the

essence,

the

director

makes

his, own choice of creative

devices and wraps the play to his best satisfaction.
Thus when it is performed on the stage. the play sometimes comes out quite differently from
what it was originally envisaged by the playwright;
On the otherhand, there are other Directors who builds up a play retaining
the whole body intact through prenning is done in areas where it is nessesary.
By maintaining the text as set by the writer as the basis, he applies his own
ideas in transforming to written language into action embellishing it with his own

creative ingenuity.

३

This in the present context we find two aspects in the perforrnative situation
of a play. The second aspect is on the live of what was in vogue in the earlier
stages of Drama in Manipur but with a difference. The earlier notion of the playwright being the authority of the text is questioned in the alternative theatre and

the Directors creative ingeneity has been counted as another prime factor in the
physical transformation of a play.

47

