The point of argument arising in this context is the question of dominance of
the writer or to say, literature in a play. It is assumed that to present a play in
toto as given by a playwright negates the creativity of a Director. The Director as
a creative Artiste should not necessarily succumb to the authority of the play.
wright who on the otherhand has no complete requisite knowledge of play production. This argument assume to draw the line in favour of the Director '3
domain in the production of a play.
This arguments tantamounts to create mis-understaning between a playwright and a Director. It should be noted that a play is meant for .production which basically demands two elements, a writer and a performer.
Therefore it shald be understood that a play is the representation of two
creative Artistes or we can say more in the analytical sense from the modern
academic point of view, A play is the composite image of all these elements.
The demand of the alternative theatre is not only on a Director. The
demand falls heavily on a play writer too. Since, the production of the
alternative theatre is quite different from the earlier conventional tr
ends

with a break from the normal constraints of tho stage and direction, th
e play
wrights, too have tried to conform to this trend. That is
why we find
contemporary Drama scripts written on a frame which
do not conform to the
usual structure of a play as we understand it. But
it should not be misunderstood that a playwright does understand the in
tricacies of play production. Most of the well versed playwrights are
associated with one theatre
group or the other. To say in short. the pla
ywrights are the products of the
theatre houses.
’
.
Vision of the Future:

specially for the playwright.

anti-thesis of change.

It is a difficult question to give a fo
olproof answer
What we can deduce at the most

Until] the dialetical

process reaches the phase of
a

synthe31s we shall have to be a
part and parcel
'

.

. .

of the process.

Therfore

o is to «write such pieces whi
ch can

give a very serious ‘critical
thinking’ impact to the peopl
e
s
o
that the process
to a synthe31s— a peaceful.
a liberated society may be
a
chieved the sooner
the better. What else can
Art do if not for this objec
tive 7
l

48

