Director’s Note
It is with utmost humility that I have taken upon
myself the stupendous task of translating the
vangmaya of Kalidasa on stage. My plight could be
better summed up through the following verse of
the poet himself.

movements of Mohiniyattam are used in the first
three acts of this production, in the fourth and fifth

acts the emphasis shifts to vac/oiled to represent
kaisz’lez' and bbamtz’ with" respectively. Here I have
underlined the Karuna by the selective choice of
ragas

like

Dwijawanti,

Kamboji,

Bilahari,

कृ सूर्यप्नभवी वंश: क्व चालयाँरेषया मति:
Madhyamavati etc.

त्तितीर्चुर्टूस्तर मोहादुडुपेनारिम सागरम्
(Where is the race sprung from the sun? And where
my scandy powers of mind? Methinks! from sheer

As in all my previous productions of sanskrit plays 1
have tried to break away from the proscenium in
search of a more flexible presentation, emphasizing

folly I am bent upon crossing the ocean, though
the presence of the actor on a bare stage with
difficult to be passed over, by means of a small raft)

minimal use of properties and accessories.
At the outset, the most difficult part of the production
80 the play is before you, and let me again quote
was to edit a seven act play so that the duration of
Kalidasa
its performance does not exceed two hours.
Traditionally, the fourth and the fifth acts are

Lady, I will tell you the exact state of the case,

considered the most important. Hence, I have kept
them as such and edited the other preceeding and

NO skill in acting can I deem complete,
Till from the wise the actor gair applause,

succeeding acts. It is well known that the cbaleyars.

Know that the heart e’em of the truly skilful,

also do not enact the entire play in a single

Shrinks from too boastful confidence inself.

performance, but select particular acts for their
performances.
I am indebted to Prof. M. Christopher Byrski for
having borrowed his view that while analysing
Sanskrit drama, the methodology of their analysis
should also correspond to that of Natyasastra. Prof.
Byrski interprets the concept of minis as demeanours—
or how the human body conducts itself while
undergoing various emotional states. Sakuntalam,
being a gringampmdban drama, leaisz'lez' mini is to
be employed in its production. However, Karuna
takes over in act four and act five and Karuna is to
be delineated by employing bbamti mini, which
emphasizes the vac/oiled element. This is because
while in a state of sorrow the body becomes numb
and inactive; so minimal use of gestures is advisable
for depicting this state. Eventhough delicate

,८33७

