NATYA SAMAROH ’85
Seven-day National Theatre Festival

The national theatre festival ‘Natya Samaroh’ is an event which has grown out
of a process set in motion two years ago with the broad objective of supporting and
sustaining the creative efforts and energies of young enterprising theatre workers

with a view to helping the experimental segment of theatre activity. This was sought
to be achieved by encouraging young directors to take up experimental productions
which seek inspiration in the traditional/folk theatre forms, and thus through a
process of artistic cross-fertilisation with modern sensibilities help contemporary
theatre assimilate the heritage of the past. There is ample evidence to indicate the
existence of such theatre activity involving serious effort by many theatre workers,
both established and not so established. But the lack, however, of adequate

resources to support such work—being primarily of an experimental nature,
involving high financial and artistic risks—makes it expedient that this potential and '
fruitful activity should receive sustenance on a continuing basis.

Natya Sarnaroh is the outcome of the Akademi’s Scheme for Assistance to
Young Theatre Workers now completing its' second year of operation. The scheme

is operated on the basis of a Statewise division of the country into four zones.
Competent and experienced theatre directors and groups are identified and those

selected ' are offered substantial ﬁnancial assistance to cover the cost of the
production.

During the course of the past one year four zonal festivals, lasting ﬁve days
each, were held in the towns of the States comprising the zone, viz. Cochin (South
Zone), Udaipur (West Zone), Calcutta (East Zone) and Chandigarh (North Zone).
The State Sangeet Natak Akademis were encouraged to collaborate with the
Central Akademi in organising the zonal festivals. Out of the twenty plays presented
at the zonal level, seven selected plays are being staged in the national festival: Natya
Samaroh ’85.

Under the present scheme, the Sangeet Natak Akademi, over a period of ﬁve
years, will have helped to stage over eighty new productions—directorial ventures
by young theatre directors in different Indian languages. It will also have encouraged
exploration of traditional folk and other indigenous theatre forms on an
unprecedented scale. Over the same period, the programme will have resulted in
twenty festivals of five days’ duration each at the regional level and ﬁve major
festivals at the national level involving the participation of hundreds of theatre
workers. It will also result in serious theatrical exposure for nation-wide audiences in
thousands.

Natya Sarnaroh ’85 will enable the theatre lovers of the capital to see a body of
new experimental work originating from a common programme in different language
areas of the country and hold discussions on them as well. Such an exposure will be
an interesting experience for many, but for the more serious segment of the

audience, the Samaroh will hapefully help in crystallising some thoughts on styles of
theatre which are indigenous in character and firmly rooted in the Indian soil, both in
inspiration and outlook.

