NATYA SAMAROH ’85

January 9
NONGDA APAM THOIBA (in Manipuri)
Produced by: The Panthoibi Natya Mandir, Irnphal

Written and Directed by: Y. Rajendra Singh

SYNOPSIS
After the creation of the world, God distributed all things equally between the

Devatas and Rakshasas. The Devatas lived in harmony but the Rakshasas became
jealous of them and started a war against the Devatas.

The Devatas approached the Supreme Lord for their safety, who gave them the
power to kill Rakshasas. But Saroi Ningol Atombi, the younger sister of the
Rakshasas, escaped. She approached Salainlen Shidava, King of the Devatas, who
made her queen of his kingdom against the will of the Devatas. The Devatas
attempted to destroy the new-born child of Saroi Ningol Atombi. But a prophecy
was heard not to kill the child, as he was to accomplish the Lord’s wishes. The Gods
left the child in a dense forest and fled.

For several years the Devatas in their bliss forgot to make offerings to the

Supreme Lord. He in anger flooded the earth. The Devatas were in great distress.
Meanwhile, another prophecy was made to offer Saroi Ningol Atornbi to lraipurel
(God of Water) for the safety of the Devatas. Saroi Ningol Atombi, for the sake of the
Devatas, offered herself to Iraipurel. She became his wife and was known as
lraileirna.

The child who grew up in the midst of the jungle was known as Nongda Apam
Thoiba. One day, Apam Thoiba met his long-separated mother Iraileima while she
was taking a bath in the jungle. The beauty of lraileirna attracted Apam Thoiba, who
molested her. After realizing lraileirna was his mother, Apam Thoiba repented his
behaviour and scooped out his eyes.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The play is based on a myth of Manipur and is written in free verse. Rituals of
Saroi Khongba, martial arts of Manipur and elements of tribal and folk music of
Manipur have been used for the production. It is not confined to one particular form
but there is a search for finding out a contemporary theatre idiom inspired by our
traditional forms.

CAST AND CREDITS
Apam Thoiba: Y. Khogen; Salailen Sadaba: S. Lokendro; Erai Purel: Y. Birnol;
Khoyum: S. Khogen, Y. Mangi, Y. Sarat, Y. Bimol and Kh. Shanti; Saroi: Y. Baby,
Kh. Ratan, H. Jayanta, Y. Binoykumar, and E. Bhubaneshwar; Erai Leirna (Saran
Atombi): Km. 5. Santa; Khoyum Lairembi: Km. L. Nirmala, Km. L. Kamala, Km. G.
Kunjalata and Km. S. Ibeyaima.
Music: Ch. Ranjit, G. Shyamkanhai Shanna; Costumes: Rajen, S. Khogen &
Jayanta; Make-up: Y. Khogen; Stage & Light: Shanti, Binoy, Sharat, Bhogen &
Munindro; Publicity: L. Upendro Shanna; Production Manager: 8. Tomba & Y.
lbetombi.

Y. RAJENDRA SINGH (b. 1953)
Graduated in Science in 1978. An actor, director and a Playwright, he received

his first enlightment in Theatre from H. Kanhai Lal Sith~ Has Worked under Ram”
Thiyam, Probir Guha, Senekhya lbotombi Sl."lgh and A. Netrajit Singh- Hi? Plays

include Matampakta, Nungougi Tengthakholfphekkhalrabl Male", ROkSh‘m and
Nongda Apam Thoiba.

