NATYA SAMAROH ’85

January 15
MUKTA DHARA (In Gujarati)

Produced by: Saptasindhu, Ahmedabad

'Written by: Rabindranath Tagore
Directed by: Bharat Dave

SYNOPSIS
This is the story of an empire, Uttarkut, ruled by King Ranjeet, who subjugates a
' neighbouring state, Shivtarai. The King designs and builds at enormous human cost
a huge dam in the middle of the river Muktadhara to deny water to Shivtarai.

At the integral festival, there is a terrible, hue and cry by the King’s exploited
subject, women like Amba who have lost their sons and relatives in the building of the
dam. All who ~protest are killed, the survivors approached with ﬂattery and fake
consolation.

The King finds a child on the bank of Muktadhara who, it is prophesied will be the
future emperor. The King brings him up as an heir.
Yuvraj Abhijit grows up and resovles to free the water of Muktadhara and by
doing so, achieve freedom for all. The Shivtarai people have a spiritual guide,
Dhananjay Bhairagi, who tells them not to submit to any authority but God.
A war of passive resistance is waged by Dhananjay and the Shivtarai people

against the brutal force of Uttarkut. Yuvraj Abhijit sacriﬁces himself for the freedom.
His life mission is fulfilled. Muktadhara begins to ﬂow freely once again.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Tagore’s very famous play—consists of Jatra elements—to my mind it’s a play for
total theatre, a poetic imagery presented through music, songs, colour and
movement .

CAST AND CREDITS
Mothers: Dipti Brahmbhatt, Archana Bhatt, Mrudula Doctor, Nafeeza Sarot;
Vibhuti: Vinod Nayak; Doot & Yuvraj: Subhash Brahmbhat; King: Kiran Joshi;

Mantri: Nitin Dave; Guru: Firdaus Meuawala; Batu: Jaikrushna Rathod; Sanjay:
Devendra Dikshit; Dhananjaya: Raju Barot, Bharat Dave; Soldiers: Salil Mehta, Iqbal
Nagingar; Vishvajeet: Subahu Bhatt; Uttarkut People: Dipti, Archana, Nizami, Salil,
Raju, Nltin, Mayank, Akshaya; Shivtarai People: Shanker, Shafi, Darshini, Nafeeza,

Mridula, Subahu, Nagingar; Children: Shueta, Neel, Amber, Manali;

Lighting: Dilip & Kiran; Music: Bharat & Raju; Property & Costume: Akshaya Desai
& Jaikrishna Rathod; Make-up: Ashuin Rangmanch.

BHARAT DAVE. (b. 1948)
He is a graduate from National School of Drama. First directed the play
‘Scorpion’ in 1976, and then a play by Tom Stoppard, ‘Albert’s Bridge’. He also
continued his theatre activities like play productions, publication of cyclostyled
monthly theatre bulletin. He has directed number of stage plays-specially, Media,
Inspector General, Khamosh Adalat. Antim Adhyaya. He has translated and
composed music for plays like MenaGurjari and MuktadharaHe received his vocal

music and sitar training for three years in Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, New Delhi in
1973-76. He also directed ‘Mena Gurjari’ for National School of Drama Repertory in

1 980 .

