Perhaps this is the ﬁrst major effort to break through the self-imposed
conﬁnes of modern Indian drama and bring neglected areas of our common
life nearer the theatre; and the theatre to be a dynamic medium (if necessary
a force) we all agree must faithfully and fearlessly reﬂect it. The novelty of
the play does not lie in the roughness of the language—though one must
recognise the skill with which the author has caught the rhythm, idiom and
vocabulary of the social class without interposing any alien note, which
gives it both its vitality and its freshness—but its theme: the struggle, and
consequently the sufferings, that the 'dropouts' of family and society have
to undergo in order to stay alive and come to terms with life. Of this we
have three instances: Sakharam turns a rebel against the hypocrisy of the
affluent of his own class and their double standards of sexual morals;

flaunting his virility as a make-believe to compensate for his inner weakness
and loneliness, only to be shocked later by its transient nature. Sexual
strength is a deceptive substitute for moral strength, whose roots he has
failed to discover in his experience or psyche. There is vivacious Champa,
certainly a type that abounds in our urban slums, who acts as a foil to
expose, rather brutally of course, Sakharam's vaunted self-deception and
unconscious weakness, both sexual and moral. His strangling her to death
on which the play rightly ends is a woeful admission of the failure of what
he had worked out to be his philosophy of life and living. How he rants
about it, in the opening scenes of the play and throughout, as if to reassure
himself that his values are superior to those of his hypocritical neighbours!
Finally there is Lakshmi, the godfearing simpleton, slightly touched, who
pathetically afﬁrrns the beliefs and values which she like millions of her
type and in similar circumstances holds. Notice the savage irony behind
her awkward silence when she is asked her husband's name, a husband who

has hounded her out of his home into a unfriendly world. She has of necessity
to accept the terms of the ﬁrst man who offers her refuge and be reconciled
to him. Here indeed is a sample of the 'slice of life' of a section—the majority,
alas—who everyone takes for granted and turns a blind complacent eye on
their individual trials, sorrows and sufferings and who look up to fate or
fortune for succour or redemption...
—- FRANK THAKURDAS
Excerptedfrom Enact, Aug-Sept. 72

Sakharam Binder / सांद्रारांम न्नाह्रन्डरं
v I~r
. .«
' 'नु r‘ '. ' i ' LT .

,नंदु द्र, दृ'

"T

दृहैग्गट्विन्धुट्ठ"q हु ' "

l

[7326K "’

