D E L H I A RT T H E AT RE
Delhi Art Theatre has earned a distinctive place in the capital for its serious approach
to the theatre. It has many good productions to its credit, which include such good plays as
Kesro, Godan, Dada Darnodar, Kanjoos, Post Oﬁice and Shodoshi.
Their latest offering is a play in Hindi “Devi”.

The Delhi Art Theatre, a pioneer in producing modern operas in this country, has a long
string of successful productions to its credit, culminating in the opera “Prithviraj Chauhan.”

The group has been acclaimed by the Press and public for its contribution in giving a new
direction and shape to a genre, which in times to come will greatly enrich our cultural
heritage.
No art form can ﬂourish without adequate patronage—whether the patronage comes
from the government or from other public institutions is immaterial, as long as the patronage
does not take the form of domination in creative work.

Unfortunately the authorities in this country are not yet conscious of the need to help
this great art form. It is only the creative spirit and the artistic urge that has enabled the
group to put up operas.

But there is a limit.

was put up a decade ago.

Technically we have advanced far ahead since our ﬁrst opera

But the raw material has remained almost the same.

There are

no funds to give training to the singers and actors, there are no funds to employ trained hands

—it is a vicious circle. The public rightly demands productions of a high standard, the'group
Largely a cast of

is capable of delivering the goods, but the wherewithals are missing.

amateurs is collected somehow, training is given during rehearsals and by the time the show
is over, the cast gets scattered. For the next season the same process starts all over again.
a nucleus
How long can it go on ? It prevents the group from giving its best, it prevents
has as yet
being formed of permanent singers and actors. All because no one in authority

considered it necessary to render ﬁnancial help to nurture this art form.
Address .’
Flat No. 36, Shankar Market
Connaught Circus

NEW DELHI-1

.

. 7
३

