A note from the Writer.
Away on a holiday to Port-Blair, one evening I saw a ﬁlm screened by their public
relations department. A saga of development and civilization of the islands. The happy
event being portrayed was the successful installation of the ﬁrst telecommunication
links between the mainland (India) and the Islands. The ﬁrst message from the mainland

was heard, “How are things ?” “Everything is ﬁne," beamed the youngester manning
the controls at this end. There was excitement all over. In a ﬂash dawned on me the total
meaninglessness of the communication, and of a thousand such communications that

ﬁll our daily lives, behind which lies a total travesty of truth
This supplied me with the structure of the play. The intent was to ﬁnd a
construction that would enable one to subvert the all too familiar cliches, events and
attitudes that form the main content of our lives and to convert them into question marks.

Therefore the present construction. Amidst the preparations for the wedding of the
daughter of a middle-class Punjabi-Hindu family, the play opens by asking the matter
of fact question, “Is everything in order ?" The innocent answer is. “Yes," Next, it is
discovered that the young bride has eloped with a Muslim boy. This unleashes a chain
of events that shows the complex and sad reality behind the facade. Throughout the
development of the events, the same question repeats several times in

different

contexts. The answer though “yes”, belies the fate of the characters of the play. In
the end, tragedies established, the same question is voiced once again by an innocent
participant. There is no answer.
Behind the facade of, “All is fine”, the play explores the factors that go into the

making of a mute tragedy that could be easily averted. Foremost is the “silencing", of
a women, both within home, and outside. “Silencing" and “acquiescence", through
domination of male will to usage of physical violence. And hence is seen the fallacy of
the myth of “the acquiescing mother" and of “the woman who always changes her

statement in the police custody (or court of law)". At the same time, there is no denying.
that though advantageously placed as a gender; the position of the dissenting male is
as vulnerable as of most women.

Thus, though spanning only three days; the story, by bringing into play all the
hidden cruelty, subjugation, ignorance and lies, brings to conclusion the long drawn
earlier tragedies and initiates for the same reasons, fresh ones.

