National School of Drama Repertory Company
National School of Drama Repertory was
formed in 1964-65 on an experimental basis
by Sh. E. Alkazi. In the begining, it consisted
of only four actors. it later expanded in to a

celebrities in theatre, cinema and television in

larger group of actors, musicians and

Bangladesh.

technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of
the National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964

India. The Repertory tours extensively all over
India and has made several successful trips of
Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, Mauritius and

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh,
in 1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary
through a major festival of his plays.

Late Shri Om Shivpuri led the Company and
later in 1977, Late Shri Manohar Singh
become the first regular Chief of Repertory
when Manohar Singh left the Repertory
Company in 1885, for a short period Miss.
Uttra Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked
after the functioning of the company.

Jubilee celebration of the Company. The

Late Shri IN. Kaushal officiated as the Chief

company celebrated 40 yrs. of its existance on
20th May 2004.

till 1988. From 1989 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal
Bajaj was handling the company. From 1994
to 97 Shri Kaushal was again functioning as
acting Chief. From 1999 N.S.D. graduate Sh.
Suresh Sharma was appointed as the
permanent chief of the Repertory Company.

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of
photographs, set models, costumes, properties,
posters etc. of Repertory productions was
inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the Silver

Business Manager

: S .P. Shanna

Production Coordinator: Parag Sarmah
Music Incharge

: Om Prakash

Light Technician

: Gyan Chand Batra

Over the years the Repertory has produced a
variety of plays ranging from stylised
musicials to realistic contemporary works of
Indian drama to translations and adaptations
of foreign language plays. Eminent directors
of national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have worked
with the company.

Costume Incharge

: C.S. Bhatia

Sound Technician

: R.S. Gosain

Box Office

: Neelam Kapoor
V.I’. Vashist
Dharamveer

Repertory has performed over 150 plays by 90
playwrights and has worked with 65

Repertory Chief

: Suresh Shanna

directors. Quite a few of the actors of the

Director NSD

: Prof. D.R. Ankur

company have emerged over the years as

