Kafka's Life (1883-1924)
”I write diﬂeren tlyfrom the way I speak, I speak diﬂereh tlyfrom the way I
think, I think diﬁ‘erentlyfrom the way I should think - and so zt goes on
into the darkest depths ofinfinity ”
(Letter to Ottla, July 10, 1914)
Franz Kafka, the son of Julie Lowy and
Hermann Kafka, a merchant, was born into a

middle-class Jewish family. After two brothers
died in infancy, he became the oldest child,
remaining forever conscious of his role as older
brother; Ottla, the youngest of his three sisters,

became the family member closest to him.
Kafka strongly identified with his maternal
ancestors because of their spirituality,
intellectual distinction, piety, rabbinical

learning, eccentricity, melancholy disposition,
and delicate physical and mental constitution.
He was not, however, particularly close to his
mother, a simple woman devoted to her
children. Subservient to her overwhelming, ill-

reﬂected directly in Kafka’s story Das Urteil
(1916; The Judgment). It is projected on a
grander scale in Kafka's novels, which portray
in lucid, deceptively simple prose a man’s
desperate struggle with an overwhelming
power, one that may persecute its victim (as in
The Trial) or one that may be sought after and
begged in vain for approval (as in The Castle).
Yet the roots of Kafka’s anxiety and despair go
deeper than his relationship to his father and
family, with whom he chose to live in close and

cramped proximity for the major part of his
adult life. The source of Kafka’s despair lies in a
sense of ultimate isolation from true
communion with all human beings—the friends

tempered husband and his exacting business,
she shared with her spouse a lack of
comprehension of their son’s unprofitable and
possibly unhealthy dedication to the literary

he cherished, the women he loved, the job he

"recording of [his] . . . dreamlike inner life."

held only perfunctorily to the religious

The figure of Kafka’s father overshadowed

practices and social formalities of the Jewish

Kafka’s work as well as his existence; the figure
is, in fact, one of his most impressive creations.

community, Kafka was German both in
language and culture. He was a timid, guilt-

For, in his imagination, this coarse, practical,

ridden, and obedient child who did well in

and domineering shopkeeper and patriarch,
who worshiped nothing but material success
and social advancement, belonged to a race of

elementary school and in the Altstadter
Staatsgymnasium, an exacting high school for
the academic elite. He was respected and liked
by his teachers. lnwardly, however, he rebelled
against the authoritarian institution and the
dehumanized humanistic curriculum, with its
emphasis on rote learning and classical
languages. Kafka’s opposition to established
society became apparent when, as an

giants and was an awesome, admirable, but

repulsive tyrant. In Kafka’s most important
attempt at autobiography, "Brief an den Vater"
(written 1919; ”Letter to Father"), a letter that
never reached the addressee, Kafka attributed

his failure to live-—to cut loose from parental ties

detested, the society he lived in—-and with God,

or, as he put it, with true indestructible Being.
The son of a would-be assimilated Jew who

and establish himself in marriage and

adolescent, he declared himself a socialist as

fatherhood-~as well as his escape into
literature, to the prohibitive father figure,

well as an atheist. Throughout his adult life he
expressed qualified sympathies for the

which instilled in him the sense of his own

impotence. He felt his will had been broken by

socialists; attended meetings of the Czech
Anarchists (before World War I); and, in his

his father. The conflict with the father is

later years, showed marked interest and

