Set Design
Born on August 23, 1949, Srinagar (]&I<),

Theatre within the country as well as in Sri

Bansi Kaul is an eminent theatre director,

Lanka, Poland, Czechoslovakia, France,
Holland, Italy, London, Columbia, Surinam,

designer and Visualiser, who has developed a

new idiom and performance language. His in
depth research in the sociology of performing
and non-performing art-forms has created an
actors’ gymnasium based on the principles of
the akhada, natgiri, modern dance, story—
telling, indigenous village-games and music.
Experiments through interweaving the
performing and non-performing art-forms
have led him to giving a new dimension to the
existing stage metaphor. He is an eminent
designer of space and Visualizer. His
creativity has been a major force in
establishing relations between theatre
communities

both,

in

India

and

internationally.
Bansi Kaul has travelled widely within the
country to make an exhaustive study of the
sociology of akhadebazi (traditional martial
arts), natgiri (traditional acrobatics),

performing and non—performing folk forms
as well as the kathagayaki (narrative forms).
He has made an in depth study of the
vidushaks or jesters belonging to different
folk theatre forms in India. Extensive written
and audio-visual documentation of the
research on various performing and nonperforming art-forms combined with theatre,
developed into an Actors’ Training
Methodology giving performance a fresh
approach, new idiom and a different
dimension. He has presented research papers
at National and International Theatre
Syrnposia .
He has been a Professor Extension
Programmes at the National School of Drama,
Delhi, 1980—81, the Director of Shrirarn Centre

for the Arts, Delhi, 1981 —82. Invited as Visiting

Professor for Theatre Education to major
Universities in India. He has also held series
of lectures on different aspects of Indian

Greece and Bangladesh. He was invited to the
USA under the International Visitors’
Programme, 1985 as an eminent theatre director.

Through Theatre Workshops Bansi Kaul has been
initiating children belonging to the unorganized
sector into theatre creating through this an
atmosphere for education and learning. He has
conducted and organized theatre workshops for
jail inmates and their children, bringing colour
and laughter back into their lives. His journeys
have led through India and other countries
conducting theatre workshops with amateur and
professional repertories sparking in them the
ability to stage productions.
As a Space Designer, Bansi Kaul has transformed
informal spaces, rocky terrain, sand dunes and

concrete jungles into areas for performance. He
has been experimenting with theatrical spaces
through playing with form, colour and sound.
He has designed and created the mobile Rang
Yatra Theatre Exhibition on the occasion of the
National School of Drarna’s 25th Anniversary,

Delhi 1994. He has been chief designer and coordinator for major cultural events such as the
Festivals of India in France (1984) and
Switzerland (1985), Apna Utsav-a festival of

performing and non-performing art-forms (198687), the Khajuraho Dance Festival (1988), Festival

of India in USSR (1988), the Closing Ceremony of
the Festival of India in the USSR (1989),

Internatinal Puppetry Festival (1990), Festival of
India in China (1994), Edinburgh Mela (2000,

2001), Inauguration of the National Games
(2001), Inauguration of the Youth Festival,

Haryana (2001), Spectacle for Cultural Events for
Republic Day Celebration, Delhi (2002),
Spectacle for Pacific Asian Tourist Association
(PATA) (2002), Spectacle for Mahabharat Utsav,

Haryana (2002), Festival of India in Bhutan
(2003).

