Music
Born in 1953, Mr. Ghosh started to learn Table
from Pandit Vishwanath Bose, at the age of 7.

Kahaniyan, Tracking gold, Opening stroke,
Devi Choudhurani etc.

He has also learnt Hindustani Vocal Music
from Acharya K.C.D. Brahaspati and

Mr. Ghosh has composed music for various TV

SmtSulochana Brahaspati.

Mr. Ghosh started composing music for plays
from 1971 and started as a professional
freelance music composer and music director
from 1974. He has composed more than two
hundred nationally popular plays for stage and
television which includes :
Yasmin, Thehra hua pani, Jeewan Ki Ye - (Dir.
by Shiela Bhatia) Khubsurat Bala, Yahudi Ki
Ladki - (Dir. by Nadira Babbar) Anji, Ali Baba,
”Iota Bola - (Dir. by Rajendranath) Nati
Binodini, Dilli Chalo, Turup Ka Patta - (Dir. by

Bapi Bose) Lal Ghas Per Neela Ghode, Shatranj
Ke Khiladi - (Dir. by Prasanna) Bakri, Mitti Na
Howe Matrai - (Dir. by Kavita Nagpal) Uwalde
Tibbe — (Dir. by Ibrahim Alkazi) Exception the
rule - (Dir. by Rudraprasad Sengupta)

films, which include Fakhroor Mian, Lal ghas

per neela ghore, Kath Ki gaadi etc. For
documentary films, he has composed music for
In Secular India, Troches of courage, Journey
through Kashmir, Willow Warriors, etc.

Mr. Ghosh has scored music for children’s
Feature Film titled Mundu and Disha. He is a
member of IPTA for three decades. Director and

founder-member of Progressive Songs squad
Parcham and founder member of Sahmat.

Mr. Ghosh has represented Indian in the
Festival of Indian in London, East Germany
and Poland. As the director of Parcham he has
represented India in the Thirteenth World
Festival of Youth and Students held in north
Korea in 1989.

serials for Doordarshan which include Titliyan,

In 1980 he was awarded for the best Musical
Play by Sahitya Kala Parishad for the play
Yahudi Ki Ladki. In 1982 he has been felicitated
by Poland State Television. In 1986—87 he got the
N.H.K. Award by Japanese Television. In 1989
he was awarded medals in North Korea. In
1991 he received the Kala Sahitya Evam
Sanskriti Puraskar by Pahal of Faridabad. In
2000 Mr. Ghosh was awarded Sangeet Natak
Academy Award for contribution to Theatre

Police file se, Munshi Premchand Ki arnar

Music.

Mr. Ghosh has also scored and directed music
for many Bengali plays, jatras and dance
dramas. He has composed music for many
street plays for Jana Natya Manch and also
composed music for puppet theatre production
Ramayana directed by Dadi Padamsee.
Mr. Ghosh has composed music for many TV

