PLAYWRIGHT’S NOTE: CHANAKYA VISHNUGUP’I‘A
_
This play about Chanakya, Chandragupta and Rakshasa is not an
adaptation of the famous Mudrarakshasa by Vishakhadutta. It is an
attempt by a late twentieth century intellectual to look at the phenomenon of empire building in
the 3rd Century B.C. It is a long
view at the emergence of India as,
what one might call, a civilisationstate. Mudrarakshasa looked at this
phenomenon when India was at
one of her pinnacles of glory. I am
looking at it when the dark times
are probably already here.
The famous Italian critic Moretti
interpreted Shakespeare’s version
of the story of King Lear as one
which belonged to the times of disintegration of Sovereignty. I might
suggest that in Chanakya Vishnugupta an attempt is made to look
at the process of empire-building
or more accurately the process of
building of a civilisation-state in
times of real dangers emerging to
the very concept of India and Indian civilisation. I hope and trust
that Chanakya Vishnugupta will
come across as a play with a lot of
contemporary relevance. It is in

this sense that it is not an adaptation of Mudramkshasa.
A word about the fictional fig-

ure of Suvasini. The name is taken
from Iai Shanker Prasad’s play
Chandragupta. But apart from the
name there is nothing in common
between Prasad’s Suvasini and
mine. Suvasini represents the
counterpoint to Chanakya in
senses more than one. In the great
philosophical divide of Ancient
India she represents Avaidik
thought as opposed to Chanakya’s
preference for the Vaidik thought.
She stands for the decentralised
political power as against
Chanakya’s centralised state. Likewise she represents the spiritual as
opposed to Chanakya’s relentless
pursuit of political i.e. this-wordly
power. Prasad’s Suvasini does not
represent any of these things. I
liked to the name and borrowed it
as a device of paying my respects to
the late master. My Suvasini is
mine. I have never been able to
decide if my "intellectual" understanding of Chanakya and his politics is greater or smaller than my
love for my beautiful creation! No
wonder, Ancient India has the

myth of Brahma falling in love with
his own daughter, Saraswati!
G .P. Deshpande

