i
9

है

,

३

.

Every time she
perfyrms Ramayana
on stage, JALABALA
VAIDYA gives a fresh
interpretation to the
epic and not repeat
herself. She speaks
to SARIIHA
SARASWAIHY BALAN
aboutthe journey of
her life as a theatre
artiste and how the
cultural
५ transtoirnatioritook
place for‘a'girl born
in London
३ “to the one
rel nteiprotating
the epic hero
Rama

BACKSTAGE 20 M| NUTES—

‘resh ﬂavours t0 the epic
1m“ ignite “boner
She has named her pet cat ‘Kaaﬁ' which

Transforming in in 1111९१९' time
urally lo \"aidyzi 1५110 had acted in
plays while at school Ll'ltl ciillege< Her ‘n
riey to t heworld i if [11८1८ 1८ began utter he:

is an important ‘raag‘ in Hindustani
Classical music. While we continued our
conversation at Akshara Theatre, Kaaﬁ
cameand sat on Jalabala Vaidya’s lap and
stayed there till we were done.

IIIEX” :1 हर्द.

Vaidya has a distinct style of doing
things that reﬂectseven in theway she has
christened her cat. NowiID-years»old,she
is still charmingand from her serene voice

to the elegant look. sheis worth the adjective ‘class’. Vaidya will be on otage as
‘Dasaxatha’ in the pla Ramayana on the
tlenew insights in every characterI play? says the ace artiste.
Vaidya plays the characters
in the Ramayana which was
acters in Ramayana allalone in stages. "It writtenby her husband(from:
' in lune '
came up in my mind that I am not doing Sharrnan,
good as all the characters. That was when year. Shannan altogether gave
I includedthe students ofAkshara Theatre. adiﬁerent interpretation to the
Still I don the role of Dasaratha when the epic, which has been explored
play beginsand there are otheractors." she by the social and culturalscenarios ofvarious periods
says.
In Sliarman's Rama aria.
Vaidya has played Ramayana rriore
than 2,000times on stage across the globe. Rama and Sita stayed in orest
hilosophial reasons. He
Sohow will she overcome the challenge of
getting repeatedover all these years. “Well. an ysed the psychological
mdnieI act, I discover a new aspect. aspect of Rama. Sita and
' I have not thoughtnbout before.This Ravana
Vaidya adds. “ In the
time I got afresh understandhig ofthe rel-1A
tion between Dasaralha and Kaikeyi. In Ramayana written by Gopal, all the charspite ofall the trouble mused by Kailteyi. acters are human, Hanuman being the only
Dasamtha was in absolute love with her. super natural character. He portrayedeven
when comparedto hisrelation with other Ravanaas humanand his actofabducting
wivesand was also pli tally moreattract» ' Site as hisobsession, not a horrible one as
- ed to hm Like this.I ddnnumerable lit- featured usually”.

' ﬁrst day. today. of Id World Theatre
Festival ०

'

at Habitat Centre.

by

Old Class Thane

दृ

'

'Iill 2005.V'aidya pkyed all the 23char-

“Ravana's
\\'llt:
Mandodari is visualised by
Gopal as a woman who has
iriuch power. Ramayana is a
powerful epic. I have read
Ramayana written by IIlulll'
le authors. not just the one
him". Vaidya says.
She continues. "There
has been an attempt by the
British to create a leeling of
disrespect ton‘urds Raina as
an anti—hero. as the one who
abandoned his Wife and all
After the uprising in 1857.
there was a sense of unity
among the various religious
communities in India that
madethe British upset Rama helped tosus~
min the urutedculture ofa country He kept
alive thesense of selt'Aesteem, ot'being them selves in the sub continent. It was amazmg
that we did not change the lessons out of
disrespect to Raina. even after the British

"At that lime. mm; wax not 1 prom.
siori . Then I chose iournahxrn as my cart-er
Shannan mix the one \yhu helped me
return to the world Ul Ilimil’t‘ ~th recul
lects
Vaidya's faintly returned to India trorn
lmiklm’l while पू6धधिद्वापप्त child How was the
trunsrtrori’ ३ We r .lfi'lt’tl 'U ltitlm raw 2are
before lIIle becariie indeperitlen I t ६1 ax
a cultural shock as I turn back riou \ly
mother used to send me to school by bus
and seeing people beggingon theroadside
and streets really shocked me. But the feel
mg was IIIIXt‘d mtli pride as my 1.1111८'1 was
a treedorn tighter.
I could realise the acceptance he
received in the country. My mother. half
British and ।भि1:९पू11या might have also gone
through a tough time as she had to live in
a foreign country". she says.
\'aidya's motherwas a singer and she
attributes hcr taste {or art and writing to her
ents An author ot‘thebooks This is Full'
and ‘That is Full'. \‘aidia has nowcorriplet»
edimting ‘Gopal Sliuriian's. the Ramayana
for Our Time. Our Story from End to Stan:
She reminds, ‘See this is [he other way
round. from end to start? Asked about how
she Will be laying Ramayana now. when
her husban is no more. she says. “It would
be good. it would be"

i.
it

