and sociological bias and was geared to the instruction of the audience through the use of entertaining folk
tales
It was intended to have a cerebral rather than a visceral effect.
The lndian theatre scene, ironically, has not been as intense and widespread as the Brechtian
theatre although the socio—polftical upheavals over the centuries afforded excellent material for the growth
of such meaningful reformatory theatre. Bhartendu I-larishchandra was perhaps the first Indian dramatist
who gave this missionary direction to lndian theatre in the second half of nineteenth century. After
In recent
Bhartendu, however. a long void has continued to exist in creating purposeful lndian theatre
years, however, with the inspiring lead given by National School of Drama since its inception in early sixties.

there has been a spurt of intense theatre activity by many serious theatre groups in different parts of the
country towards evolving a new lndian theatre form with instructional purpose.

We in Abhinet are striving

to make some significant contribution in this direction.
In writing “Aala Afsar", a brilliant Indianised adaptation of Gogol‘s original Russian play, “The
Inspector General", Mudrarakshas has creditably ﬁlled the prolonged void left after Bhartendu. That he has
succeeded in giving us a splendid synthesis of entertainment and instructional drama is an ample meausre

of his creative genius and a deﬁnite proof of his serious concern for social reform.
When I ﬁrst read “Aala Afsar", its appeal was total and immediate.

But soon, overawed by a

large prohibitive cast and a difﬁcult experimental ‘nautanki' style envisaged by the
script aside.

playwright, I put the

The apathy was, however, transitory and superﬁcial, for the typical artistic restlessness deep

inside kept nibbling at my passion for doing theatre.

Within days, therefore, I ventured another reading of

the play in the company of some of the senior colleagues in the group who also immensely liked the play
especially its profound contemporary ﬂavour, and goaded me into essaying it , as our next production. I
must say now that more than

my own passion for theatre,

it was their whole-hearted encouragement

