National School of Drama

Repertory Company
National School of Dram a Repertory was formed in 1 964—
65 on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi in the

beginning, it consisted of only four actors, musicians and
technicians, mainly drawn from graduated of the National
School ofDrama, In Delhi 1964 late Shri Om Shivpuri led
the company and later in 1 977, Shri Manohar Singh

became the ﬁrst regular Chief of Repertory. When
Manohar Singh left the Repertory Company in 1 985, for a
short period Ms. Uttara Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sirkri
looked after the functioning of the company. Later Shri
].N. Kaushal ofﬁciated as the chief tiIl 1 988. From 1994
Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was headling the company. From

1 994 to 97. Shri Kaushal was again functioning as acting
Chief.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of
plays ranging from stylized musicals to realistic
contemporary works of Indian drama to translations and
adaptations of foreign languages plays. Eminent directors
of national and international repute from within the
country and abroad have worked with the company.
Repertory has performed over hundred and twenty plays

Bussiness Manager

Vibha Das

Technical Director

CLS. Marathe

Sound Technician

S.N. Das Gupta

and television of India. The Repertory tours extensively

Music lncharge

Om I’rakash

all over India and has made several successful trips of

Costume lncharge

Charanjeet Bhatia

Workshop lncharge

Abdul Haqim

Box Ofﬁce lncharge

S. P. Sharma

by seventy playwrights and has worked with ﬁfty
directors. Quite a few of the actor the company have
emerged, over the years, as celebrities in theatre, cinema

Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and Mauritius.
The Repertory Paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in 1 99293 on his twentieth death anniversary through a major

Nee lam Kap00 r

festival of his plays.

Ram esh Athwal
S. R. Yadav

Rang Yatra, an exhibitions, consisting of photographs, set
T. R Bh att
models, costumes, properties posters etc. of Repertory

productions was inaugurated in 1991 on the occassion of

Repertory Chief

Suresh Shanna

the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the Company. It is a

Director NSD

Prof. Ram Gopal Balal

permanent exhibition designed by Shri Bansi Kaul.

—

