THE NOVELIST
In the essay ‘Ashok ke I’hool' the symbol of Ashoka tree

is used to survey the changing Indian Cultural milieu and
mores across the centuries and to convey the realisation
that nothing is pure and permanent and that change is
the law of life.
Anarndas Ka Potha-Ath Raikva Akhyan ( 1 976 based on a
stroy of Chandogya Upanishad) is another novel where
Dwevediji recreates his character with psychological

insight and has endowed with qualities of boldness,
frankness & human sympathy which transform him into a
great scholar and poet in a convincing manner. Some of

Hazari PraSad Dwivedi
the characters are directly taken from the Upanishad rest
come from the imaginative mind of the writer. In his
Hazari Prasad Dwivedi ( l 907to 1 979) was born at Dube
novel his scientific approach can clearly be seen. He
Ka Chhapra in the Balia district of Bihar. He is

A
supports family life and believes that a life devoid of

acknowledged as an outstanding Hindi writer, having
woman’s presence specially that of a ascetic is world's
enriched poetry, the novel, the essay and literary

greatest misfortune. According to him a man might
criticism in the language. He was professor of Hindi at
disregard a woman but fails to understand that without

Shatiniketan, Benarus Hindu University and Punjab
her presence his manhood is meaningless 8. unpro
University. What is remarkable about his writing is that he
ductive. Dwivediji describes the spontaneous attraction 8.
combines in himself the ancient Indian wisdom and the
healthy love between man and woman and underlines

progressive modern outlook. His novels, using several
the phpiloshy of active association with and interest in
stylistic devices, re-interpret the past in terms of the
mundane affairs of daily life. Mere ‘Tapa’ leads to a life of
present. Among his notable works are ‘ Hindi Sahitya Ki
resignation. He belives in motivating an individual to
Bhumika' (Literary Criticism) Banabhatta Ki Atrna Katha
move from his solitary sarnadhi in a remote jungle
(novel) and Punarnarwa (1974 : a description of 4th cent.
towards a life , where an individual has to do sewa of the
India novel). For his collection of essays ‘Alok I’arva’ he
down trodden in order to achieve accomplishment in life.
received tha Sahitya Akademi Award. He was also a
After reaching a certain level of contem p—lation, there is
recipient of the I’adma Bhushan. The novel ‘Ban Bhatta
no conflict left between an individual and the world. That
Ki Atmakatha' proves his commendable grasp over the
is why Dwivedi Ji believes that we all should surreder
environment of the concerned period of antiquity. His
ourselves to the ‘I’aram Vaishvanar' in order to
other work ‘Charu Chandralekha' (1963 dealing with the
understand the effectiveness of our accumulated

story of Raja Satvahan 8. Rani Charu Chandralekha) too
knowledge.
has won reputation. Dwivediji was the one example of
the outstanding creation of inter war period. He is
scrupulously correct not only about outword forms but
also about the social more & the sensibilities of the period.

