ABOUT THE NOVEL

ABOUT THE PLAY

The play Anamdas Ka Potha is based on Hazari Prasad

This play contains the story of a tattwadarshi Rishi called

Dwivediji novel of the same title. The story of the novel

Raikva, whose unsatiable appetite for knowledge leads

has its origin in the ﬁrst chapter of Chandogya Upanishad

him through many experiences and experiments in his

titled Raikva-Akhyan. Its an amusing story of a young and

life, all with a scientiﬁc approach thoroughly examined

vibrant Rishi called Raikva, who is sitting under a cart and

and analysed, reasoned and argued in an earnest

scratching the itch, but who. in the possession of highest

attempt to understand the truth of body, mind and soul

wisdom is proud as a King. Hurnbly the wealthy donor,

with their respective relation with each other. But his

Raja Janashruti approaches him in order to seek further

days of contemplation are obstructed by his encounter

knowledge of tattwagyan . But Raikva paid no heed to his

with Jabala the princess, the ﬁrst woman in his life. He is

visit; neither he got up to show any respect to him nor

impulsively drawn towards Jabala but fails to understand

he offered him a seat. The Raja hirnselfwas an expert on

his impulse. He falls in love and goes through intense

tattwagyan and knew the language of swans. Once the

emotional upheavels. But this ﬁrst ﬂush of enshusiasm

Raja was roaming around in a jungle and happened to

soon gives way to deeper self-introspection as he

come across a pair of swans. He heard them conversing.

encounters many more people from the different sections

He could make out that swans were saying that “all the

of the society. The second woman he meets is

wealth ‘rayi' reaches Raikva". Who is this Raikva?

Ritambhara, in the form of mothers 8. the third woman,

Amazed by this information he immediately sent his men

Rijjuka as sister come to his life to begin the process of

to look for this person. The moment he got the news of a

socailisation. These interactions proved pre - dominent

Rishi called Raikva sitting under a cart and scratching the

factor in influencing his thoughts and making him realize

itch, he goes to meet the Rishi with lots of gifts. Raikva

the intellectual hypocrisy on one hand and the inner

calls him a Sudra and laughs at the presents which the

harsh inner reality on the other hand. The most down to

Raja offers him. l’oor Raja had no choice but to withdraw

earth and pragmatic values are provided by Mata

quietly. At the end of the story Raja made another

Ritambhara. He was able to realize the importance of

attempt and approached Raikva alongwith his beautiful

assentior of life in midst of betrayel. exploitation and

daughter Jabala. Raikva was overwhelmed by the beauty

deprivation. From a self in dulgent Rishi he gets

of the princess and was motivated to have a discourse on

transformed into an responsible social being and becomes

tattwagyan with Raja. Raikva told the Raja that the whole

sensitive to the truth of human existance around him.

un'Nerse has originated from ‘Vayu’ and it will get

Thus the novelist is leading us to understand the real

dissolved in ‘Vayu' itself. Hazari Prasad Dwivedi's novel

sense ofTapasya—Adhyana and also the fact that love

Anamdas ka Potha is woven around this very original

should be a way to achieve higher objectives in life i.e.

story of Chandogya Upanishad.

inﬁnite possibility of universal love and compassion.
Novelist intends to make us realise that one should rise
above the obscure & mystical understaning of god, tapa
and sadhna and brings in a scientiﬁcally accepted notion
of the vedas & philosphies where by they become the
medium to achieve the Param Vaishvanar - the supreme
and wholesome form of total creation.

