SYNOPSIS
SCENE 1
Auashasti Rishi as ‘Pita'. Raikva shares his feeling for
Raikva is a young Rishi with an inquisitive mind and

Shubha with mother.

subsists on bhiksha. Through his intense tapasya he is
Scene IV

conviced that ‘prana’ and ‘vayu’ are the most powerful
elements on earth.

labala is anxious to hear some news of Raikva. Just then
Acharya Audumbarayan arrives with the news of

One night after a devastating storm he happens to come

across two creatures lying unconcious near an over-

interesting meeting with Raikva. He narrates the enitre
episode of his encounter with Raikva and his to the Raja.

turned cart. One of them is dead and the other is still
Both Acharya ancl Raja are amused by the entertaining
breathing. This other creatures who appears unearthly to
story but Jabala is hurt by their amusement.
Raikva regains conciousness. They enter into
conversation. Raikva discover that she is a ‘stri padarth' .

Scene V

He comes to know that she is Raja Jana shruti's daughter
Meanwhile Mata Ritarnbhara takes Raikva to meet
Jabala. Jabala instructs Ratikva to address her as shubha
Aurshasti Rishi. He enlightens Raikva by answering all his
Soon Jabala is whisked away by the Raja's search team.
queries regarding the truth of body, mind, soul and the
After she leaves, Raikva sits under the cart and starts
Pararn Vaishvanart. He tells Raikva that though he is well

meditating.
researched but he needs to be associated with other
Scene II

knowledgeable men for the sake of ‘Satsang' .

Jabala is overwhelmed by the innocence of Raikva, who

Scene V]

has casted a spell on her. She is going through great
One day Raikva on his way ﬁnds a helpless woman lying
emotional turmoil and falls sid<. Meanwhile Acharya
on the path, hungry and thristy with a baby clutched in
Audumbarayan returns home with the amazing news of
her weak hands. Raikva is moved by the miserable plight
the fame of Raikva being told by the swans. Raja
of this woman. He helps her to her feet and takes her
Janashruti is also excited on hearing this information and
home. He comes to know that she is the wife of the same
sends his men to look for Raikva.

cart—driver who was lying dead next to Shubha on that
Scene 111

fateful night. He is anguished at the lack of sensitivity of
Jabala and her father towards the widow. He is

The next morning after the storm, he happens to meet
determined to make Jabala her father seek penance for
another ‘stri padarth’ . similar to Shubha but older in age.
their negligence and to engage Jabala in the service of
She is amazed on hearing the child like innocent queries
the oppressed masses.
of Raikva. She feels sympathetic towards Raikva on
knowing that he is an orphan. She takes him along with

Scene Vll

her to her ashram and persuades him to stay in the
It has not rained for the past two years and people are
ashram to pursue with his ‘gyan charcha'. She assures
struggling to survive. One Augharh Rishi is agitated by
Raikva to take him to her Tattwagyani husband Auashasti
the callousness of Raja and on his own free will is busy in
Rishi to seek his guidance on tattwagyan. Mata
doing relief work. He rebukes Acharya on Raja’s
Ritarnbhara instructs Raikva to address her as Maa and

_

