indifference towards his subject. He directs Acharya to

Scene XII

organise Gandharva l’ujan to cure the mental - illness of
Gandharva Pujan is organised in all its pomp glory.
Iabala. While she her self becomes aware of the pathetic
Jabala’s sister Arandhati has also come to witness the
state of affairs and decides to join the relief work.
puja. She is perplexed on watching her sister shedding
Scene Vlll

tears in one of the scene of drama. Arundhati insists
Jabala to share her feeling and finally comes to know

Mata Ritarnbhara takes Raikva to Aushasti Rishi to seek
about her love for Raikva and the consequent silent

further knowledge on taltwagyan, who in turn advises
suffering of Jabala .
him to enter into the phase of Grihastha— Jeewan.
Scene Xlll
Scene XI

lncidently Ashwalayan and Raikva are close friends and
While wandering through the rural region of the state.
are discussing on tattwagyan, their favourite subject.
Mata and Raikva meet one person who is fondly called as
Ashwalayan is amazed to learn that Raikva has left the

‘Mama' by the villagers, he has nobody to call his own
adoration of Vayu because of his attraction towards ‘Stri

and yet does effort to provide food to the poor children.
padarth’ He persuades Raikva to restart his Upasana of

He realised the meaninglessness of his being a
Pararn Vaishvanar During their conversation Ashwalayan,
tattwagyan. He joins hands with Mama and sets off for
comes to know that Raikva is in love with the same girl

the service of masses.
with whom he is proposed to get married. On
Scene X

discovering this fact he immediately decides to withdraw
and informs Acharya about Raikva as the suitable groom

Mata Ritarnbhara is annoyed by Raja's lack of interest in

for labala.
the welfare of masses and herself goes to meet him. On
hearing the hard hitting words of Mata Raja feels guilty

Scene XIV

and assures her of quick remedies to control the situation.
Arundhati has already come to know the reality of Jabala's

Raja seeks her blessings for his ill daughter. During the
situation. On hearing the proposed marriage of
conversation Mata comes to know that Jabala is Raikva's
Ashwalayan'with Jabala, she protests in front of Acharya

Shubha and Jabala also geta conﬁrmed about Raikva's
and Raja. Acharya feels insulted and leaves in haste . So
identity as her beloved.

does the Raja.
Scene XI
Scene XV

Mata is duly getting done the ‘Shradh' for the dead
in the end Raja Janashruti along with his daughter goes to
husband of Rijjuka who by now is adopted in the family

Raikva with lots of gifts to seek knowledge on
as daughter and sister. Just then Acharya arrives to take
tattwagyan. Compelled by the beauty oflabala Raikva

Rijjuka with full honour to Raja's household and promises
agrees to have discourse on tattwagyan with Raja. Raikva
Mata to look after her well being. Relief work is going on
considers this ‘Vivaha’ as ‘Uddvaha'.
in full swing under the supervision of Raja. Just them
Acharya comes up with the proposal of Jabala’s marriage
with Ashwalayan, another great tattwa gyani.

