'

on THE PLAYWRIGHT

. "क्यों

o T"..
चमकी
-. 133i
(all

ow
Michel Vinaver (born 1927) is the outstanding dramatist of the theatre (l
only
the
is
'gume
His plays enact the crisis between human beings and their l'a‘n
ze the realities
performed playwright in contemporary France who is seeking to dramati
of industry and marketing under late twentieth-century capitalism.
in working
The majority of Vinaver's twelve published plays deal with people
after-sales
situations, for example Les Travaux et/es jours, 1978 which is set in the
'1969'
office of a ﬁrm manufacturing coffee grinders; . Par-dessus bord' (Overboard),
to ‘
which tells the story of an old-fashioned French toilet-paper manufacturer facing up
the challenge of American-imported ‘softies’. In this respect, his most recent play,

Portrait of a Woman, is an exception : it is the only one to be set in a period other
than the present. The play is, however closely based on accounts of the real case of
Pauline Dubuisson, a medical student who murdered her lover and was condemned to
hard labour for life in 1951. Vinaver followed the case at the time, collecting the daily
accounts of the trial that were publish-ed in Le Monde. Having put the cuttings away
in an attic, Vinaver forgot all about it until the early 19803, when he rediscovered the
file.

On re-reading it, he was struck by the way in which ‘the court authorities failed to

persuade Pauline Dubuisson to enter into their linguistic ﬁeld. She adopted none ३ of
the attitudes expected in such circumstances: she was neither contrite nor angry-she
simply appeared untouched by the court’s proceedings. Vinaver decided to construct a
play based not so much on_ the murder as on the accounts of the trial and he chose to
limit himself to those published in Le Monde: every word that was reported as having
been spoken in court would be included in the play.
The result is a fragmentary dialogue comprising a multiplicity of voices. The
- various witnesses speak a bewildering variety of different idioms, whose ideological
presuppositions are gradually revealed through their words and their manner of speaking them. > But the central character seems untouched by the confrontations in the
courtroom; her replies simply do not coincide with the expectations of her questioners.
Her own emotional needs only emerge from the ﬂash-back scenes evoking her relationships with parents, friends, lovers, teachers.

But here, too, she is in conﬂict with other

people's expectations of her: each of these peOple has a particular idea of what she
should be, an image that each tries to impose upon her. When her behaviour or' her
language‘fail to coincide with what her interlocutors expect of her they make no attempt

to adapt or adjust (with the exception of Xavier) and we gradually see how each of
these relationships is, to some degree, a power relationship: Sophie is never allowed

, to take a dominant role. _ If shedhad been able to impose her view of herself and of
social relations on "the others, or if she had been able to integrate the different ‘selves’
that she manifests in her different relationships, then she might have been able to
survive.

As it is, she can only experience life as a sum of fragmented parts with no

