centre to hold it together. Her crime is an act of desperation, a protest against the
, intolerable strain of trying to pull together so many separate, subservient selves. it is
clear that her predicament is to a large extent the consequence of having to conform to
role models proposed by men. Her lover,herteacher, her father, her boyfriend,all in different ways, cast her in roles that condemn her to passivity, denying her the possibility of
personal development or fulﬁlment. Her one real ally is the landlady, Mme Guibot,
whose sympathy is not enough to make up for her inability to understand SOphie.
There are obvious similarities between Sophie and Camus's Meursault in L'Etranger
(The OutSIder) both are victims of a legal process that functions according to its
own logic, taking little account of the real needs of the character concerned.

Sophie is never able to achieve the positiveaﬁirmation of Meursault,
being crushed by the pressures of social conformism, is able, before he
his rightness and declare his revolt. This is denied to Sophie, since
decided to remain faithful to his source. It would have been easy to
speech in which she vindicates herself, but it would have falsiﬁed the

But

who despite
dies, to afﬁrm
‘Vinaver had
write a ﬁnal
truth of her

dilemma, painstakingly recreated for the audience In the course of the play. There is
a tragic afterword to this case: in 1964 the real Pauline Dubuisson was released from

prison with a remission of sentence for exemplary behaviour. , A year and a half later
she ३ committed suicide.

DIRECTORS N OT E
Sumi, a 24 year old medical student faces a trial for murder. As the play unfolds,
alternating between the courtroom and scenes from her life, the action serves as a

‘Post-mortem' on the events of Sumi’s life - events and relationships that have shaped
and moulded her thinking. Who is to blame for the crime she ultimately commits-her
parents from Ferozepur who expect her to be grateful for the opportunities they gave
her ? Her ‘well-brought up’ boyfriend Shekhar with his own expectations of her ?
The violent times in which she lives ......... or Sumi herself? Or it is the variety of
entrapping labels and images that the various characters of the play ‘ﬁx’ on Sumi ?
The play" uses an exciting form to communicate its multilayered meaning, juxtaposing several pieces of action simultaneously on the stage. In this way the play forces
us to constantly reconsider and reevaluate our reading of the events of Sumi's life.
Using the same actor to play more than a single character is another interesting
theatrical device used by the playwright to create a welter of meanings._
ln adapting the play we have attempted to capture some of the complexities of
the Spoken language of today. While Sumi's parents speak Punjabi, Lokesh’s language
liberally uses slang, Dr. Pande uses a Sanskritized Hindi while Shekhar’s Hindi is
peppered with English.
In 1991 with recent over pubicized crimes of passion fresh in our memory,
TASVEER reflects the predicament of the individual in a fast changing social scenario.

