DELHI A RT THEATRE
Flat 36, Shankar Market, Connaught Circus, प

New Delhi-110011
Delhi Art Theatre needs no introduction for its original and meaningful contribution
in promoting and enriching theatre. Its productions have been acclaimed not only in Delhi
but also in almost all major cities and towns of India and beyond. Particularly in the ﬁeld
of operas and musical dramas the group under the direction of Sheila Bhatia has carved a
unique and unrivalled place for itself. It is gratifying to note that those who till recently
scoffed at this genre are ethusiastically adopting or attempting to introduce music and dance

in their plays.

We can take legitimate pride as the pioneers and creators of this movement

as we always believed that Indian theatre, if it has to take ﬁrm roots, cannot do without

integrating song, dance and drama based on indigenous forms using modern techniques.
Probably ours is the only group which has experimented with original plays or opers
and musicals in the three major languages of this region, namely, Punjabi, Urdu, and Hindi.
The themes of our plays deal with burning social and human problems. We don’t depend on

adaptationsor translations.
Our productions, to name a few, like Heer Ranjha, Prithviraj Chauhan, Ghalib-

Kaun-Hai, Chann—Badlan-Da, Kissa Yeh Aurat Ka-Hawa Se Hippie 'I‘ak, Nadir Shah, Jugni,
Dard Aye Ga-Dab-e Paon, Yeh Ishq Nahin Assan, Shahanshah Akbar, Sulagde Darya etc~

were all hailed as landmarks in Indian threatre and were performed in all major cities and
towns of India. They created a stir and were treated as setting a new trend in experimental
and innovative threatre.

But it also creates many problems.

The biggest is to ﬁnd a cast of

actor-singers who can act as well as sing. We don’t use mikes. But the modern music schools,
TV, Radio, ﬁlms by and large only produce crooners. The quality of inner emotion and stress
is missing.

But we are still lucky to possess a few artistes who can match in capacity and

capability the best found anywhere. This is due to strenous training and the desire to improve.
Delhi has still not achieved adulthood in theatre. Out of a population of nearly seven
million hardly a few thousands are frequent theatre goers. Somehow it has not reached all

levels of people and remain basically a limited middle class phenomenon. We are lucky that
most of our productions draw large audiences. We can perform for a long run. But irony
is that despite good houses the more we perform the more we lose. The cost of a performance
for our specialized theatre is very high. The expenses on live orchestra, artistes, hall rent,
publicity, transport etc., become crippling. But we go on in the hope that one day we will

square up.
This time the group is presenting another experimental play —A tale from Mahabharata
retold-Draupadi in a new exciting VCI‘SlOII in Hindustani inspired by Subramania Bharati’s
epic poem Panchali Shaptham. This is our humble tribute to the great poet from the South
who is not so well known in the north.

