A Note on Draupadi
It has been a year of celebrations of the centenary of Subramania Bharati, a great
poet from Tamil Nad whose name had become a household word in the South and who
heralded a new era in Tamil literature and whose philosophy and thoughts transcended all
national barriers.

When the Department of Culture, Govt. of India approached us to do a dramatic
version of his works it was a big challenge. But the challenge was worth taking,
whatever the audience reactions, as we considered it a privilege to bring Bharati’s works in a
dramatic form before the audiences here.
To the best of my knowledge, Bharati never wrote any dramas or plays and to attempt
any dramatic version of his poems was a hard task. I studied all his works and commentaries
that were available in Hindi and English. Out of his multifaceted subjects dealing with life
around for a decent human existence, two themes struck me the most. His poems on woman’s
emancipation from the fetters of social and political slavery and his ideas on ‘Dharam’ and
‘Adharam’ and his thoughts that every thing that is in scriptures is not worth worshipping.
One must use one’s reasoning to sift good from bad. From a huge panorama of Mahabharat
his choice of Draupadi’s ‘Cheerharan’ for a poetic expression is signiﬁcant : that Draupadi was
reduced to this plight in an open court ; that her husbands pawned her in a game of dice ;
that she is thrown before the wolves to be ravished by Kauravs in the presence of giant heroes
like Bhisham Pitamah, Yudhishter Dharamraj and others and none raised a little ringer to
rescue her from this tragic fate. '1 hey watch the shame of this innocent wounded bird and
keep mum. What a subject ! A woman has been a plaything and a piece of property over
centuries. From the period we consider golden till today, a woman has remained a second
class citizen all along.

Sitas, Draupadis, Ravanas and Dushashnas have continued to exist.

Even today there are funeral pyres in kitchens. What ‘Dharam’ gives this unjust and cruel
sanction to a male dominated society to ride rough shod over ﬁfty percent of the population ?
It is painful to think that ages and centuries have rolled by, but our norms and values
remain the same. Class and caste distinctions continue. Woman, by and large, remains in
fetters. Draupadis are ever present in our society and the subject is very much relevant even
today.
I selected ‘Panchali Shaptham’ (Draupadi’s vow) by Bharati and his other poems
which could ﬁt into the format of the play ‘Draupadi’ and discussed the theme with Kamal
Siddiqi This is yet another version of Draupadi by him who has used many poems of Bharati

