A Note on Sulagde Darya
eighteenth century.
The locale is a village in Punjab during the second half of the
its own rotten weight. First
Times were terrible. The Mughal Empire had collapsed under
death blows. They ravaged the
Nadir Shah and then Ahmad Shah Abdali dealt the ﬁnal

once prosperous and peaceful Punjab.

The anti-social elements besides the hordes of the

murder took place; gangs
invaders took to plunder ; everywhere robbery, abductions and
everyone else. Utter
of robbers closed the roads to trade and peaceful trafﬁc ; everyone fought
y. Superdesolation and disorder seized the province. People lived in fear and insecurit
Mullahas
Bigoted.
life
stition, ignorance, illiteracy and orthodoxy were the hall marks of
was worse. A
were the arbiters of the social and religious life. Woman’s position as ever
condemned
step outside the rigidly conformist customs was enough to damn her. She was
and hounded.

In the midst of this turmoil lived a great poet Bulle Shah.

Fearlessly and courageously

mullahs, pandits
he raised his powerful voice against the oppressors ——be they nobles, kings,
or landlords.

He condemned and denounced the dacoits and

murderers and the governors

ed hypocrisy,
who were too weak and cowardly to protect life and property. He condemn
pangs of his time.
cant and intolerance in society. His poignant poetry expressed the
Our country has produced giants whose sayings are great, sublime and thought pro—
voking. But why have we remained backward and millions are still in the grip of superstition
ignorance and shackles of caste ‘?
This and may other questions have been agitating my mind. And thus the desire to
study and project the thoughts of the great giants who have made efforts to break through
this stalemate.
Amongst many such efforts I studied and dramatised Akbar and now Bulle Shah.
Why did their thoughts and ideas failed to shake society out of its stupor ? Why do these
great contributions appear and disappear like meteors ? These questions remain unanswered.
But the thoughts of thinkers still remain great. Thus this humble eﬂ'ort of Sulagde Darya. The
times of Bulle Shah as mentioned earlier smouldered with uneasiness, insecurity, raids and
strifes which were reﬂected in his poetry. To project Bulle Shah’s poems in a dramatic form

was a big challenge. His awareness of his time, his search for the identity of the individual in
the vast stream of humanity suggested to me the theme —- Individual versus Society —— an a e old

theme. The characters and situations depicted in the play are not time bound

this nature could have existed in Bulle Shah’s times.

Some stogr

of

The tragedy of Jagiraan can take glace

