heatre ta kes.

ENTR E ३

The Hound ofthe Baskervilles

३

DIRECTOR: Aka5 h K h u ran a
Cast: Arg hya La h ir i, Ka ra n Parid | t, Viva a n Shah
> For those familiar with the works ofArthur
Conan Doyle and his famous detective duo,
Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson, this rendition
offers a humorous perspective to the classic text.

Aadya-in‘ Theatre Festival brings five plays
and 45 performances to Murnbai and Delhi .
writes Aniuli Bhargava १

The Merchant ofVenice
DIRECTOR: Vickram Kapadia
Cast: Yuki Ellias, Luke Kenny, Rajeev Siddhartha, Vickrarn
Kapadia, Neil Bhoopalarn and others
i A production ofthe famed Shakespearean drama by
Indian theatre group Masque.

'७१५४ s '२३

f there isan example of how ashow can
be held together by a single powerful
performance, then it is The Siddhus of

Upper Juhu, a play by the newlyfounded Aadyarn, an initiative of the
Aditya Birla Group to provide a platform for
the arts.
Rajit Kapoor (Bubbles), with his wispy electric shock-styled hair, plays the part of a cantankerous, agitated and defeated — but wellpaid — executive who is slowly crumbling
under the weight of life lived to perfection in
chaotic Murnbai.
The strength of his performance alone
holds the play together, although Shernaz
Patel (as Bubbles’swife, Behroze) also does a
commendable job.
His wry Sense of humour and exasperation at the world around him, including the
patience required to keep up with the endlessly changingtechnology (pehle Flipkart and
now Quikr, WhatsApp and thepinging), keep
the audience hanging on to his everyword.
You can't help but like Bubbles as the play

progresses and identify more and more with
what he is experiencing. He’s funny, cute,
warm and loveable. His command over
Punjabi is surprisingly quick and strong. His
timing is impeccable as are his expressions.
Theﬁrst halfof the play — taut, dialogueheavy and fullof humour —is an interchange
between Bubbles and his loyal, devoted wife,
Behroze, where Bubbles is beginning to crack
under the pressures. When he comes back to
ﬁnd his house robbed one day and when he
breaks the news of his being ﬁred to his wife,
Bubbles’s weariness with the world around
him is complete. He’s led up with life in
Murnbai and in his 2 BHK apartmentthat has

The Sidd h us of U pper Ju h u
DIRECTOR: Rahul DaCunha
Cast: Rajit Kapur, Shernaz Patel, Meera
Khurana, Kajli Shanna and Shishir Shanna

Mere Piya Gaye

bThe story ofa Sikh-Parsi couple who pour
their savings into a ﬂat in Murnbai's luhu that
becomes a living nightmare.

DIRECTOR: Sunil Shanbag
Cast: Utkarsh Mazumdar, Meenal
Patel, Satchit Puranik, Ajay lairarn,
Avantika Ganguly and others

cost him his life's savings. He takes out his

» A play set between Gujarat and

Rangoon

Bombay (now Murnbai) at the turn

frustrationson his neighbours, colleaguesand
the world around him — in fact on anything
and everything, but his wife.
With Behroze’s unwavering love and conﬁdence in her husband, the relationship
between the couple remains a pillar of
strength for Bubbles. It is a relationship —
warm and corrirriitted — many would envy.
r 1he second half of the play introduces the
three siblings ofBubbleswho cometo sup—
port hirn in his hour of need as he has a nervous breakdown. Goldie, Pammi and Smiley,his
brother and two sisters from Gurgaon.
Ludhiana and Gurdaspur, are exactly what
you expect from a middle class-Punjabi family — all sugar and honey to face and more
concerned with creatingthe right impression
(dikhawa)than actually supporting their troubled brother. The falsity of their promises rings
atrue bell even as Behroze — the Parsi intheir
midst ~— tries to grapple with somethingalien
to her. In theend, however, Bubbles's rich old—
er brother, Goldie, does come to his sibling’s
rescue and proves as good as his word. The

ofthe last century, when the latter
was reaping the benefits ofa
ﬂourishing opium trade.

The God ofCarnage
DIRECTOR: Nadir Khan
Cast: Sohrab Ardeshir, Shernaz Patel.
Zafar Karachiwala, Anu Menon
है A popular French drama that saw a
Broadway version too, this play
revolves around an altercation
between two children at a
playground, an injury and a meeting
between their parents - where all
gloves come off.

Juhu is not the Play to watch. But ifyou want
alight-hearted, entertaining evening with no

takeaways, this show will not disappoint.

Baskervilles and God ofCarnage (an original
French production) —- by different production

houses and directors. Murnbai-based pro—

And for the rest, the Aadyarn festival has
put together a range of performances to be
shown across Delhi and Murnbai over the next

- duction houses like Rage Theatre, Q’I‘P,
Masque "I'heatre, AKVarious and Arpana
८ Theatre will present ﬁve new plays scheduled

playends on an "all’s-well-that—ends-well” note

two months. There are four other plays —

‘ in Murnbai and Delhi through July and

and leaves the audience happy.
If you are looking for a deep meaning or
lasting i rnpressions, The Siddh us of Upper

William Shakespeare‘s The Merchant of
Venice, Mere PiyaGaye Rangoon (the only play
in Hindi), Arthur Conan Doyle's TheHound of

August. You can't miss them ifyou tried.
.i
‘ F'orxclrcrlulc and rickets, visit wwwaadyamcoin
, . ,l

