Shri Ram Center for Performing Arts
SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORMING ARTS grew out of what was originally
known as Indian National Theatre, heralding a revival in the Indian Cultural scene.

Shri Ram Centre is one of the leading Cultural Organisation in India and has all

along been striving hard to nurture and develop talent in the field of Performing Arts
and cu r programmes are organised to achieve this end .

S R C TH EAT R E R E P E RTO RY COM PAN Y
In 1980 the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre Repertory
Company, the aim being to produce meaningful plays by well known play-wrights to

create an involvement with theatre amongst theatre lovers. Besides performing

regularly in Delhi, SRC Repertory undertakes trips to other parts of the country as
well. Our Repertory Company has the honour of working with eminent Directors like

Rajendra Nath, Ranjit Kapcor, B.V. Karanth, Habib Tanvir, B.M.Shah, Piyush
Mishra, Suresh Sharma, Roysten Abel, Sanjay Upadhyay, Bapi Bose, Avtar Sahni,

Chittaranjan Tripathi, Urrnil KumarThapliyal & Mushtaq Kak.

ACTI N G COURSE
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programmes. The 1 st year is devoted to in-

depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt
are integrated into production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western and

modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of actors to

sustain the Hindi—theatre's future. Students who complete the course with exellent
grades are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School of Drama or
the Media.

S R C CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP
To inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage of India, particularly amongst
younger generations, SRC has been organizing production oriented Children
Theatre Workshop every year and this endeavour has been widely welcomed by

one and all, including media.
Repertory : Our Repertory is going show a new play "Shobha Yatra" Designed

'a
s't'éi’e
ill
'
' written
and Directed b y Lai q ue H u s sain
by S lta f aa t Kl1 a r1 hi“
g? 1ch तैदुष्ठाहुँ T
on 21 st to 24th September, 06

.

