The Natya Shodh Sansthan Library is open from 11 am to 6 pm
Tuesday to Saturday, and 9.30 am to 1 pm on Sunday. Annual
membership fee is Rupees twenty. Members, are entitled to infor-

mation assistance/guidance from the Sansthan Research Fellows,
and can avail (on payment) of the Sansthan’s copying/xeroxing
facilities. Institutional membership is opento newspapers, periodicals, academic institutions etc. on payment of an annual fee of
Rupees one hundred only.
Rangvarta, Natya Shodh Sansthan’s newsletter, tries to give its
readers a sense of history and insight into how theatre grows and
achieves and challenges, by highlighting some interesting material in
the Sansthan’s collection and offering glimpses of the current theatre
scene. Yearly subscription is Rupees twenty-four (post free); and for
two years Rupees forty-ﬁve. Cheques/drafts should be made payable
to Natya Shodh Sansthan. Payments can also be made in cash

or by money order. A complete set of Rangvarta published till date
(nos. ३ 1—48) is available at the Sansthan for Rupees two hundred.
On completing ten years the Sansthan has published a'catalogue
of the different kinds of material it has acquired and processed for
conservation over the years. The entire collection has been listed
under six sub-heads, viz. Individuals; Groups and Institutions;
Traditions, Forms and Styles; Plays; Books and Periodicals; Disc

Records. It is available at the Sansthan on payment of Rupees ten.
Master Fida Hussain: Farsi Theatre mein Pachas Varsh (in Hindi),
the only Sansthan publication to date, is available at the Sansthan,
at Rupees forty only.

-—————____—__—________
AN APPEAL
Friends, by now you are aware of what we are looking for to
preserve in our archives. We would appeal to you to help us
make our collection more comprehensive by providing us
with information on materials that we could acquire and by

making available to us materials that you would like to be
preserved with care, including the original or xeroxed or
photographed copies of written or printed materials, stills,
diagrams, designs etc. and costumes, journals, books, records,

taped materials etc. We have tried our best; but we need more

advice and assistance from everybody interested in theatre.

