LOOK BACK . . .
AND AFTER
A question often asked is : How can so many individuals work together
in one group ? The answer is simple : The relationships between members of
the group is always a delicate and a complicated thing. For us Ruchika has been
the beginning of long years of co-operations and friendships, full of triumphs
and frustrations, joys and disappointments, but always

exciting.

Take

me for

instance, । have always been a rebel child. I have always been a problem, not
only to others but also to myself and i think I will remain so for l have a
highstrung

personality,

passionately

alive, enormously sensitive, very short

tempered, sometimes quite ruthless in the pursuit of my own goals, suspicious,
stubborn, capricious, most unpredictable, my will power is extra-ordinary. Thus,

there are bound to be disagreements and misunderstandings as there are bound
to be between other members of the group. We all know this and they are
soon forgotten.
p l a ys .

After all we have a common cause : we want to do good

Looking back on my career in Theatre I remember a critic once wrote in
Enact “Kuckreja’s unorthodox approach polarizes critics into those who like
him and those who hate him. He dedicates his plays to his girlfriends. The
traditional narrator in all his plays—he says—is a replica of himself. His casts
are chosen from among his friends who reflect facets of his persona.

His plays

can best be described as advertisements for himself”. Another in the same
magazine wrote ”Arun, a firm believer in what he calls subjectivity and personal
expression in theatre does his plays with a vengeance which borders on exces—
sive mono-mania. He seems to be searching for something which he doesn't
get and he enjoys this. This enjoyment becomes an obsession and people who
suffer are his cast and technicians.
Kuckreja's productions click not his
characters or his relationship with his actors”. Another criticism against me is
that | make my plays bold and experimental in form only and not content.

While I cannot let myself be concerned with what people think and say

about me personally, l believe that reviewers and critics have every right to
interpret my plays as they like. । refuse to interpret my work to others, and l
cannot tell a critic what to think; each‘ person has the right to understand a play

