THE INSIDE FROM THE OUTSIDE
( OR VICE VERSA)
What a lot of tr0ub|ed water has flowed under the bridge since the
summer of ’72. The founding fathers were green—painfully raw. Even today
the oldest and the most venerable of Ruchika members is just twenty-three.
hardly on the threshold of senility. And already the brochure and the critics
speak of a second generation in Ruchika...outside, the young face at the ticket
counter had exaggerated streaks of zinc oxide in her hair.
Its an achievement to fight ones own amateur tendencies,
rnirages, professional competition and patronizing praise—survive the
and emerge as one of the oldest theatre group comprising of the
average age group. This survival in the face of heavy odds is

financial
struggle
youngest
no mean

achievement.
When we started off we had a bandwagon full of poets, actors, painters,

photographers, directors, singers and exquisite dancers—a whole caboodle of
beloved cranks and we have nurtured these eccentrics.

The productions have

not always been professional or perfect but they have rarely been unforgivably
shabby. Good or bad, the entire preparation for the shows, the trials and
tribulations—have created strong emotional bonds. The emphasis on the all
round development of a

personality has facilitated ”cultural enlightenment"

Anyone who has joined Ruchika has seen Truffaut, read Camus and debated on
Benegal. Here, an actor has directed, chosen and faded in music, operated the
dimmer board—the “stars" have run around checking proofs of the brochure,
collecting tickets from the press

and then sold them at the counter.

This

unification of all the various odd jobs that make a production possible has

become the .work pattern of every member. All are expected to, are called upon
and are prepared to do any sort of job.
Ruchika had started off with healthy ambitions—some of which materialized and others that didn’t. Everyone recognized the need for theoretical
discussions, lectures and demonstrations by celebrities on aspects , of the
performing arts; a magazine to dispel theoretical confusion and to encourage
and nurture creative writing. There was a determination to find or even write
plays that could be taken to a different audience in our industrial estates. The
realisation of a specific ambition and the neglect of another indicate the basic
character of the group.
The majority of the members of Ruchika Theatre Group come from Delhi’s
upper middle class homes. Although they are elites by birth —they are progressive by choice. They have once been appropriately described as Liberal
Trendies. One cannot imagine Ruchika putting up a play that reconfirrns feudal
structures or feudal relationships. They are not and cannot be labelled reactionary. At worse—they are conservative and at best they can be progressive

