in a liberal framework. At once anti—feudal and anti—left. They cannot and will
not be revolutionary though they will make exemplary liberal progressives.
In the past years hardly any serious theoretical work concerning theories
of art that had been planned has been undertaken. A predominance of concern
of form rather than content has resulted. Conservative theories of art have
encouraged experimentation in form rather than content. And because of this
fundamental conservatism our audience has remained limited — not numerically
but in character. No inclination to involve a different alternative audience has
led us to take on broadly the same content, the same venue—and therefore the
same audience demanding, appreciating and applauding the same content. It
becomes a circle from which it is difficult to break. It is not difficult to think
how enriched the group would be if we were to perform at say the carpark
outside Super Bazaar. However, this inclination has not been discouraged in the
group ever although it has not been taken up either. Those who were the
loudest exponents about this change in content and form are no longer active in
the group.
However, complete Lin-conventional methods in innovation in techniques
and production values are encouraged. Constantly new actors are thrown up
and are guided by new directors. Challenges are undertaken without wincing—
triumphantly laughed about or quietly criticised later. Short stores are dramatized, short novels are rewritten and performed. Ruchika is the only theatre
group in the capital that performs plays in Hindi as well as in English.

The financial drought that plagues Ruchika is the greatest threat to its
survival. The grandiose account at the UCO bank is always pathetically meagre.
Despite this there is an inbuilt resentment against sponsorship. Our earliest
productions cost us two hundred and today the most expensive of our ventures

never exceeds six thousand. Ruchika has moved from shaky amateur theatre
to a semblance of professionalism; from performances at YMCA to INT. This
has been a heroic fight managing, somehow collecting Ads besides which many
have sunk in much. Nothing about this move towards professionalism implies
economic comfort—plays at best barely break even and here Drama is not a

business proposition.

No actors are paid ( ...... sometimes payments to the

auditorium and press are endangered ..). Therefore there are no fancy cocktails

or dinners after shows. The post—production celebrations are always modest.
Here the pre-production tensions are exhausted in loud music and discussion.
The sense of exhileration abates after the show. And soon there is something
in the air again—rehearsals, curses, movies, jokes, hysteria, quarrels.

Whether the Delhi audience and critics like it or not—Ruchika has come
to stay. Ruchika—young and enthusiastic, from whom several other splinter
groups have emerged, has proved to be a recruiting ground for the NSD ! !

— TA N l SA N D H U

