THE OTHER SIDE OF THE COIN
Ruchika’s finances have always been in the doldrurns. Being a theatre group
which has chosen to collect money by way of advertisements and ticket sales
only, there has been a limited growth in the turnover of Ruchika. Without
finances there are certain fields which we cannot exploit. Our most expensive
production never crosses a five thousand rupee budget. Working on margins
creates tensions in the minds of the financial planners. Sometimes this margin
money working condition is responsible for certain aspects of a particular
production not being presented.
However with all these limitations the new generation of Ruchika has
taken up the job of bringing changes in the financial policy. People inside and
outside R uchika are noticing some definite and firm changes.
For the first time in Delhi an amateur theatre group is putting up a
festival of six plays; one every week end. To manage finances of an event like
this was one of the greatest challenges to Ruchika’s financial planners. The
planners have worked hard to get success. I n the context of collection of funds
I would like to explain to the members and the audience, their role in stimulation
of funds. A guided look at the Marketing of Ruchika will enable them to look
at this problem clearly. The people who take part in the Marketing of Ruchika
are :

r:- o: N _.

Marketing of Ruchika is a fourfold function.

Ruchika approaches :—

Business community for advertisements, donations and sponsorship.
General Body and university students for participation in productions.
Auditorium authorities for presentation of plays.

General public for audiences.

We offer distinct benefits in exchange of attainment of our objectives and
financial appreciation. Since Ruchika offers a set of distinct benefits it has to
take a marketing view point. We have to view public as our market and we
have to exploit this market as best as we can.
Thus we must be able to offer values to the audience. For this we must
understand the audience needs. We should know what we have that might
satisfy audiences needs. We are offering cultural and aesthetic services to our
audience in exchange for aesthetic and financial appreciation.

