In a service organisation the main beneficiaries are its
clients and in a
mutual benefit organisation are all it's members. Since Ruchika does
not confirm to either of these in totality, it has to take the best of both. Becaus
e of
our financial aspect we emerge as a service organisation.
For effective working of the service cycle we have to stimulate positive
feelings in our donors. If we are weak at this we shall soon lose them. We
are working in two markets i.e Donors or advertisers market and audience
market. For effective functioning of these markets, we have to work under a set
system.

The major challenge here is to develop sufficient funds for Ruchika
through competing effectively for donor interest and attention against 8 very
large number of other groups which are also seeking support from the same
donors. Herein the members should realise the role of competetion.
R uchika is a group of persons who are creating benefits not for others as

much for ourselves. We have a major exchange relation within the group too.
The executive committee requires a thorough understanding of the G B’s needs,

desires and attitudes if we are to achieve our goals.

The executive must face

the fact that the G B‘s attitude and financial stability should form an important
part of the policy planning.
Ruchika started out with a clear purpose to serve a class of human needs
and after some time it became inwardly oriented. The early charisma was
routinised and it became rule bound, and officialdom emerged. Then it became
extremely efficient in servicing its original purpose at minimum costs.
It
became 8 casually responsive group.

It became interested

opinion of its publics as they casually flow in.
production oriented—improving output with

in hearing the

Policy changed and it became
reducing costs.

We should not

try to sell our productions as they are to the public even if they want them, but
we at Ruchika should have 11 societal marketing concept—concerning consumers
need orientation approach and long term consumer satisfaction as the key to

satisfy our goals.

In other words profits through service.

A balancing act is required to achieve an equilibrium of audience demands
and our aims. When such a balance is achieved only then we can claim to be
following a very sound approach towards financial stabllity.

—- U M E S H P H A L P H E R

