1972 : Hot May afternoon. Group of young people with nothing to do—out of
school, not yet in college. Time on their hands and an interest in theatre.
A
production of Suno Janme Jai at YMCA. The birth of Ruchika.
Three month later-a new lot of people join the group.

l ntensive rehearsals, full

houses, good reviewsV-One Day in Aashad succeeds.
Another three months, another production.
This time-the political satire—
‘Shuturmurg. An unqualified success. An interest in theatre grows into an
idea of permanence.
On the green lawns of Modern School the first ad-hoc committee meets to draw
up the constitution.

Ruchika has come to stay.

1973 : Between visits to the old Secretariat and Bank for registration and court
fees, quorurns and majorities; Ruchika spreads its tentacles to include : audiovisual shows of rock operas JCS and Tommy, the beginning of what becomes
a tradition of one-act plays every summer-entitled Tryout, and presents its first
major production at Gandhi Memorial Hall—Adhe in English ............
1974 : After the near disaster of ‘Vultures’ that plays to a packed and overflowing hall, comes ’Ambush’-a half baked play for T. V. Discussion and meetings,
policy and perspective debates at Ring Road, Defence Colony, Maharani BaghRuchika begins to question it’ 5 identity.
5

The need to continue is felt Eand we

weather our first storm.

In the surnrr1e?;tWo years after our inception we hold
Barry John, Rati Bartholomew and Kusurn Haider, that
culminates in an exciting ३1'४४/०11क्लिंवै३1३1/1/0४ Later, Indian culture comes alive in
Puraskar. A tradition of good theatre begins creeping into our brochures.

I 2. . . ५'. our first workshop with

1975 : A sudden spurt of summer activity-two

Tryouts-the existential anguish

of The Fall, the triuph of the Eternal Bourgeosie, the raw farce of the Proposal,

the mystery of Butterfly and the startling relevance of Striptease: with the
prornolgation of emergency, the use of the tricolour in the set, the imperious
commands of a female hand and the censoring of a review.
And then our first

