guest director, ourfirst near professional production, our first use of outside

actors-Saved.

An artistic success-a commercial liability.

large, rambling, brilliant in parts.

1976:

And then : Tug hlaq-

Ruchika ably fights with form in 1975.

Another disastrous winter production-the soft and lyrical

Awakening. which does not emerge due to a totally new cast.

‘Spring

Summer and all

new talent presents an exciting Tryout followed by an old hand directing
Themex-a professional triumph.
And then the near disastrous Wild Stra—
wberries. Once again-worry, anxiety, morale at a low ebb.
1977 (Amazingly this time the winter production succeeds, Rhinoceros wins
out due to it’s tremendous relevance and pertinence to the Youth Congress
movement. Perspectives, planning and policy session of GBM brings forth a
new Executive Committee, a streamlined way of functioning, a decision to
perform regularly.
The relatively inexpensive Shri Ram Basement Theatre
makes for a plethora of excellence; Just Assassins, Father, Happy Days 8 Tryout
Six. Excitement Er enthasiasm at a high pitch as we decide to present oura;first
festivaxlyyif’Ruchika wins all prizes in 'Nagrik' inter language drama competition.)
1978 : The festival ls over, hopefully a success.
Administrative and artistic
talents are exhausted temporarily but small cast plays continue till summer sees
once again an exciting season; the celebration of International Childrens Year
with Mithwa aur Bitiya, Kuro-sawa's Rashomon in an exciting new form, a full'
length Pinter and the last Rakesh play to be done by us-Lehron Ke Raj Hans.
The wheel has turned full circle and still continues to spin in a never ending
spiral.

A tradition of socially relevant theatre, of a fascination with both form and
content, of a disregard for commercial theatre of any sort takes us forward into
With it is a belief that the strength of the individual lies in the
the future.
group, that genuiness and sincerity are an integral part of artistic effort and
that theatre can be a true expression of a society's development and change.

—— F E I SA L A L K AZ l

