playwriting in India. As a result

have crept into my production. I

Girish made certain alterations in
the play during its translation. He

don’t know. But my effort is to

tightened the scenes considerably

of postures, gestures and decor.
In portraying the major characters
like Tughlaq, the Step Mother,

and used a language that was

conversational, to the point and
dense. The earlier Urdu translation,

done by B. V. Karanth andW1 from the ﬁrst

edition of the Kannada original,
has some rather beautiful albeit
lengthy speeches, and it was difficult
to base a new production on it
without making major cuts. I
preferred to use a new translation.

create an Indian Tughlaq in terms

Barani, Najeeb, Aziz, Azam,
Shihabuddin, Sheikh Imamuddin

etc. , my attempt has been to
evaluate the socio-political life of
post-independence India.

design, derived from the Parsi
Theatre technique of shifting between

Lastly. the character of Tughlaq
is that of an idealist, a dreamer.
He dreams of building a secular India
but fails miserably. His lofty ideals
are stained with the blood of his
violence. Why do such things happen
in history, and that too, repeatedly?
Why does a man like Tughlaq,

the fore-stage and the deep-stage,

whose poetic sensibility and learning

has been further developed to be
used in a more complex manner.
It is often remarked that Tughlaq,
a very well written play, follows

put him in the ranks of the foremost

This production has been designed
for the proscenium stage. The basic

scholars of his time, end up talking
with a grave-yard mushroom like
Aziz? Has Tughlaq fallen so low?

the manner of the European

Is it that only such grotesque

tragedies. If this is so, it is no mean
achievement. The dramatic sensibility
of the modern urban theatre has
been imbued with western inﬂuences
over the past decades. They may

parasites as Aziz, who spring up
in the midst of dehumanised
violence, can survive in the end?

These are some of the questions
the production tries to raise.

