DELHI EXPERIMENTAL THEATRE (Regd.) was synonymous with संझा. l
the best in Malayalam Drama and theatre in the Capital City for, over" ३
..u स्था

three decades. Founded in 1963, it was one of the earliest regional
organisations in Delhi exclusively devoted to theatre activitEsuLIhe
Theatre initiated among the young enthusiasts interest in the search

for innovation in effective theatrical expression and undertook the
presentation of plays with a difference. Most of the leading playwrights
and plays of Malayalam were introduced to the Delhi audience by the
Theatre. Two decades of vigorous theatre activities was followed by a

lull due to the dispersal of Malayalee population to distant and scattered
colonies, the irresistible infactuation with the Television and the enormous expenditure in producing a play. Now there is a renewed interest
in theatre among the young people and that has inspired the Delhi

Experimental Theatre to come alive again. We plan to start regular
theatre activity in cooperation with Kerala Club which is soon going to
have a studio theatre for week-end presentations (Phone 3321510).
Rasika’s presentation of Omchery’s 'Ulakuta Perumal’ is a curtain
raiser to the new phase of our theatre activity.

UL A K UTA PE R U M A L
The play begins with the return of Sutradhara after a long absence
from the stage. He had gone to see the world, witnessed the dramas

of the world and realised that dramas of the stage were less complicated, more human and

more elevating than the dramas of the world.

Thus he gets an old play re-enacted because of its relevance today.

That old play in Ulakuta Perumal.
Ulakuta Perumal believes that all freedoms will be misused by
people, and they should therefore, have no freedom. To test if any one

would dare to dissent. he takes a ceremonial procession to the temple
of his family deity walking stark naked, but having proclaimed that he
was wearing the colourful regal robes and jewellery. Led by the

psychopath Sachiva and the elite, the entire population move on
singing the beauty & elegance of Perumal’s costume and ornaments
(which were not there). Two brave young men shout “The King is
naked-the king is lrnpotent." And they are promptly interned. No more
dissent. Torture of the poor for non payment of taxes, for violating

restrictions continued without any resistance.

८३3८- '

- '८-५७-८

