है

“mm?
. _. ५ ,५७८.

५५५८५u

/'

Hi. l ३३३3
The a ychophant Sachiva tells Perumal that the only grievance ot
.-....__..._._ﬂ1§.£§9.p§le was that there was no successor to the great ruler. Though
there was a harem full of queens, none of them bore a child. “Proclaim
tothe world I am pregnant", declared Perurnal for whom that too was

{test—46? submission of the subjects. As the meek millions sang the
glory of the unborn, Perumal's belly began to bloat like a growing
mountain, too big to move out of the place.
Resentment and agitation against repression, against coercion, lead

to bloody confrontation between Perumal’s torture brigade and the
rebels.
A pious man-Avadhoota-emerges to lead the people.

He inspires

them to ﬁght injustice not with sword but with strong-willed non-violence. All the repressive measures crurnbie before the non-retaliating but
determined agitators. Perumal realises that no weapon is so invincible as non-violent defiance and orders to produce before him the

head of the saintly leader on a platter. A wavering Sachiva holds a
phoney trial and sentences the man to death. He is beheaded and
the head brought to Perumal. Shockingly, the head went on repeating,
as it a million head in chorus “People's voice is God’s Voice, you can’t
suppress it". The ringing voice and the triumphant smile of the head
pierces the bloated belly of Perumal. The breakdown of his authority
in the form of liberated queens, the dismal tidings about the headless

body 0t Sachiva lying at the palace and the vocal head of the pious
Avadhoota all converging on the ﬂustered Perumal lead to his inevitable

end.

Like the other major plays of Omchery such as “Pralayam” (Floodtranslated into English by Paul Jacob-Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award)

and “Thevarude Aana” ("Mandir Ka Haathi" being published by NBT
in all indian languages - Kerala

Writers

Society (SPCS)

Award),

Ulakuta Perumal also reﬂects a humanist concern for man’s destiny in
un exploitative social, political and economic order.

