C 0 rd i a l l y invite you to
A UNIQUE? one artist performance

Laxrnan cannot be called as a cartoonist alone. He has played a much larger role in
awakening us to the social, political and bureaucratic tangles through his quiet humour.
The legendary protagonist of Mr. Laxman's cartoons in The Times Of India, the silent but
observant "Common Man' has been a daily companion to generations of readers. For
years, we have woken up with the cartoon of this common man dutifully occupying his
corner of the front page of the newspaper. He has been a mute spectator of all events and
in his silence, we find an alert individual with endurance. He represents us all. He
symbolizes the mute millions of |ndia or perhaps the whole world—a silent spectator of
time.

R.K. Laxman's

R. K. Laxman's Common Man' In English
For the ﬁrst time, Mr. R. K. Laxrnan has granted his kind permission
and blessings to perform it on stage. The intention behind bringing
this on stage is to infiltrate Mr. Laxman's common man to the
depths of lndian people and increase their level of awareness. It is
an audio-visual programme which incorporates Mr. Laxman's
selected cartoons The common man narrates his story covering a
period of more than past 50 years, commenting profusely on the
socio-political scenario through the perspective of Mr. Laxrnan.
The common man will be presented in his signature attire and
make-up. The selected cartoons will be projected onto a screen
using a digital projector.

By Prof. Ajit Kelkar

Now Something About Myself
Acted in many plays on experimental and professional stage.
है
है

Acted in a no.of serials in Hindi and Marathi.

*

Around 40 TV Commercials. A few films like Saaj, Bombay Boys, Corporate,
Nayak etc.

Date : Saturday, 9th oct, 2010
Venue: Sophia Bhabha Auditorium

Time : 7.00 pm.

1
Lalit Daga

Best Acting Award from the Govt. Of Maharashtra for the role in "Sakhkhe
Shejaari"—a play by Sai Paranjapye in the competition for Professional Plays.

दृ Hon. Secretary

Rajashrcc Birla
President

l

Approved artist of All India Radio from 7 years of age.

Professional Experience -Worked as a lecturer in Srnt.M.M.K.College of
Commerce for 21 years.

श्री के, का) महेश्वरी द्वारा
Completed 2 yrs course in Drarnatics.

NOTES
- Admission by Members ID, Card only.
- Entry shall be restricted once the show starts.
. Duration - approximately 2 hrs.
. . Use of Mobile phone is prohibited inside the hall .
- Please see overleaf

