की

THE PLAYWRIGHT

“...a far from easy man, morose, sardonic, solitary,

nicknamed ‘The Bear', in every respect the antithesis
of the gay and easy-going Goldoni:” John Allen.
Gozzi too, was anxious to reform the Italian stage
but in an entirely different way. Goldoni was seeking
to reform the improvised comedy by replacing its
scenario or outlined plots by fully written-out
dialogue, whereas Gozzi chose to preserve the old
forms and infuse them with new life. In the theatre

war which developed between these two writers it
was Goldoni who was obliged to retreat, taking up

his residence in France and leaving Gozzi to triumph.
Posterity has reversed this judgement. Goldoni’s
reputation has risen steadily not only in his own

country but in the other parts of the world top
whereas Gozzi’s work is now better known in the

adaptations made for operatic librettos. Even Gozzi
Carlo G I o d o n i

could not saved the moribund commedia dell’ arte;
Goldoni on the other hand is now seen to have
anticipated the arrival of the bourgeois comedy,

and to belong to the mainstrean of European drama
“Carlo Glodoni is considered the ﬁrst important
Italian comic dramatist after the Renaissance. Born
in Venice on 25th February 1707, he was destined
for law. He not only managed to complete his studies
but also practised for a while. But since childhood,
he always had a passion for the theatre. Roman
comedies proved more appealing to him than
philosophy, and a travelling theatre troupe more
interesting than his tutors. He even ran away once
with a troupe as a stoway and spent three joyous

days amongst them.
Before entering the Ghislieri College in Pavia

in 1722 he had to wait for three months and he
utilized this time by reading the Classical Comic
dramatists and carefully studying the French theatre,
especially the plays of Moliere. To his mortiﬁcation
he learned that there was no Italian equivalent and
vowed to see Iris country “rise to the level of others”.

During Goldoni's time the commedia dell’ arte
was still popular but it had become tired, vulgar
and repetitions; comic invention had given way to
mechanical imitation. Goldoni took it on himself to
reform the then moribund commedia dell’ arte. In
this he was bitterly opposed not only by some of
the actors but by his contemporary Carlo Gozzi

of the later 18th century.

Some modern critics find it difficult to say what
sort of service or disservice was done to the commedia
dell’ arte by Goldoni. In a sense, they say, be
prolonged their life by incorporating them into his

plays, and yet by stripping them of their masks
and making them learn their masks and making
them learn their lines, by civilizing them and
endowing them with bourgeois characteristics, it
could be said that he extinguished their essential
spark.
Goldoni began his reforms in 1738 with
MOMOLO COURTESAN which had one part fully
written out. He achieved his first real success with

the public with THE WILY WIDOW (1748)
produced by Girolamo Medebac in Venice at the

Teatro Sant’ Angelo. Apart from the production of
two new plays in 1749, he wrote THE COMIC
THEATRE in 1750 in which he set out his plans
for the reform of the stage. It was well received,
and soon Goldoni was at the height of his fame,
with the success of THE LIAR & THE COFFEE

HOUSE (both 1750).

In 1751 Goldoni left Medebac and took his
plays to the Teatro San Luca, where he soon found

