DIRECTOR

की

Prof. B .M. Shah

In the contemporary Indian theatre scene Prof.
Brij Mohan Shah is an established name. He is a
renowned actor, director, designer and dramatist.
He has also long been associated with the revival
of Parsi theatre.
Prof. Shah was born and brought up in Nainital
and received his early education from C.R.S.T.
School. After obtaining his post-graduate degree from
D.S.B. College, he was admitted into the National

School of Drama, in the year 1960. He specialised
in the field of theatre production. Soon after he
was engaged in theatre, cinema and‘Doordarshan.
Apart from being in Government and' NonGovernment Organisations, “he was Director in the

National School of Drama (1982—84), worked as a
Director in the Little Theatre Group (19727,
Founder Member and Director of ‘Dishantar’, Delhi
and Vice-Chairman of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, Delhi.
He has successfully co-ordinated the presentation

of dramas and workshops in various centres of the
country.He has actively given his services as a theatre
person in important seminars, conventions, Boards

and Advisory committees and worked as a
prominent participant in prime theatre festivals of
the country.

also adapted the celebrated novels Mitro Marjani
and Animal Farm into Hindi, which were highly
appreciated. He has translated and adapted theatre
versions of many Indian and foreign dramas as
well. He has also contributed several articles on

theatre in reputed Hindi and English journals and
periodicals.

He has been honoured on various occasions
for his outstanding career and contribution towards

Indian Theatre. He has been awarded the Madhya
Pradesh Kala Parishad Puraskar (1973-74); Punjabi
Kala Sangam Puraskar (1976), Bhumika, Delhi
(1983-84); Shobhana, Delhi (197., Central
Sangeet Natak Akadenii Award (1979-80), Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi (198889) and U.P. Sangeet

Natak Academy Award (1988).
He has won the Best Playwright Award in
(1981-9 instituted by the Sahitya Kala Parishad
and honoured by the National School of Drama
for his outstanding contribution towards theatre and
teaching. Besides, he is recipient of the All India
Bharatendu Harishchandra Award H.P., (1992) and
won the Kala Mandir Gwalior, Award (1987). In
1992 he was given a warm civic reception at his
hometown Almora, Nainital. He has been decorated

with the ‘Yash Bharati’ Award (U.P.)
Prof.Shah has written full length plays like
Trishanku, Sheh-Ye—Maat and Yuddhaman.He has

We are happy to have him with us, again.

