CRIMINAL TRIBE ACT, 1871, ACT XXVI l

The British branded a number of marginalized groups (Tribes), believed to be innately criminal
and made elaborate arrangements for their surveillance, an act that went well with the larger

strategy of imperial governance - the policy of keeping the subject population segregated and
sequestrated into various strata. When the bill was introduced in 197 1 by Stephens, stress was laid
on ethnological theories of caste that linked profession, up—bringing and background. The Act
entailed the registration of all members of notiﬁed 'tribes' (irrespective of their criminal
of
precedents) and the imposition of restrictions on their movements. In subsequent amendments

the Act, penalties were increased and provisions were made for taking boys of the tribes between
were
four to eighteen years of age, away from their parents. In 1908, special 'settlements'
constructed for the notiﬁed tribes where they had to perform hard labour. In 1936, Nehru
denounced the whole system as 'monstrous’ and after independence, in 1949, the Committee
. With
appointed by the government found the system violating the spirit ofthe Indian constitution
the repeal ofthe act in 1952, 2,300,000 tribes where decriminalized.

they became
The British distrust of traditional skills broke the entire web of skilled artisans and
very coarse
misﬁts in the every day market economy. In 1 907 it was declared "KAIKODS" weave
produce
and
hrs
4-5
for
usly
continuo
work
baskets and it is proved that the "criminal" weavers
baskets worth one and quarters annas.

M.KENEDY
DIG, POLISH

1907 AD

in the interest of all to
"On the one hand, the criminal designated as the enemy of all, whom it is
s hearing within him
emerge
and
citizen
track down, falls outside the pact, disqualiﬁes himself as a
, a madman, perhaps, a sick
as it were, a wild fragment of nature; he appear as a villain a monster

will belong to a scientiﬁc
and before long, "abnormal" individual. It is as such that, one day, he
objectiﬁcation and to the "treatment" that is correlative to it. "

Act-1871
AMENDED IN 1897
en the age of four to eighteen
Provision for Separation ofthe Children ofthe Criminal Tribes betwe
years from their parents and placing them in reforrnatory settlements.

of 1 871 and has been recognized
My caste, Santa Muchcher in Telegu, also comes under the Act
a thief;
her means one who steals,
all over the country. The word sarzta means market and muchc

. Even I don't know about my

Santa Muchcher therefore means one who steals in/from the market

in Maharastra like Pathroot, 'I‘akaari,
actual caste, which is recognized by different names
Bhaarnta, Uchlo, Kamati, Ghanti Chor, Vadaar, etc.

I would read slogans sayings, 'Bharat
When I was studying in the ﬁrst standard in Maharashtra,
desk kiparampara par abhimaan hai'
mera desk hai, sar'e bhartiye mere bandhu hai, mujhe is
e slogans were really meaningful then
printed on all my books. I would always wonder that ifthes
guilty? Why did the police ask my
why were people of my caSte punished without even being
not a thief and had not stolen anything?
mother to take offher sari so that they could she if she was
the feeling of brotherhood truly existed
If India was our country why were we ill-treated here? If
land for agriculture and proper shelter to
then why are we not given j obs? Why were we not given
to all kinds ofmeans to survive?
stay in? Why did we have to bribe the police and resort

