DIRECTOR‘S NOTE
. An explosien,

\

A reversal of
All that isheldsaered
\ L In searchefa di iferent

५ ‘ i Style andaesihetic
_…
Apeep‘ie
. On the barriers ofexistence
Crirninalized by British laws
Marginalized by the Indian government.
Thieves branded forever

i new do we use space
. f How does the actor e nte r
3 _ this ﬁrst person na rrat i \ 'e शा ithout illustrating it.
i i ३ What style ofnarration should there be
How can there be a narrative ofhunger‘.’
How do we show pick pocketing on the stage _. an art \\ hich is never revealed
The disappearing face ofthe ordinary peOpIe ofth i 3 country .
Their lives. their bodies screened by the glitz of
Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu thi or a newly manufactured Don .
Or even an
Antiseptic school ofdrama.
Gone are the days ofgrapp I ing with the \Vo r] d of poo r and rich .
Now we are creamed
White and pink
Into middle class glamour.
Meeting Laxshm an Gaikwad was an experience.
I am grateful to have met him and ch h ab u dey i his wife.
He was compassionate as \\ arm trusting and large hearted.
He was kind enough to invite Pickpockets ofhis community
To show us their skills.
We also went to A l I andi to the S am adhi of sant Gyaneshwar
To hear the yarkari tradition ofabhang.

We visited Apollo and poddar mi 1 l s. My experience ofresearch has been an enriching one.
I am grateful to Swara Bhaskar \\ ho spent a month researching various aspects of the novel. Aniruddha
khutwad shoyy ed the third year students various ﬁlms on the rnelas and Abhang traditions in maharastra.
He also taught thorn the songs and movement used in the 'I'ulsapur and Pandarpur scenesThe students
saw two films on pickpockets and thieves, and my documentation on pick pockets in Iaxman j is house. I
also evolved several exercises on pick pocketing, eye movements gertures and a code ofcommunication
between pick pockets. Anusha lal a brilliant dancer and upcoming choreographer gave the student a
vocabulary of contemporary movement and choreographed Three scenes in the play. I thank her deeply
Last but not the least. I thank sandeep Bhattacharya who came all the way from Behrampore to assist me .
He has patiently coordinated and taught the design students all aspects of set design, ground plan,
lighting, mask making. He has been a great source ofstrength in this very trying period ofth i rty days.

This play is the beginning ofa newj ounary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

We are trying in places to use the “Internal Gestures” of the narration rather than a Straight illustration
.
The Narration is split into several voices oflaxman and other character.

