India International

Puppetry Festival
1— 15 SEPTEMBER 1990

The miniature world of puppetry is
among the most ancient of the
performing arts. Literary references going

back to the Tamil Silappadikaram (2nd
century B.C.) prove the antiquity of this
art form in India. Shrimad Bhagavatam,
the tenth century text, describes the
Almighty as a puppeteer manipulating the
world with three strings —— Sattva, Rajas

and Tamas. Puppetry has also served as a
popular medium to communicate and
interpret our myths, legends and history.
Puppetry is a collective art. Yet,
presentations from different countries
show how oriented to individuals it is. In
this it is as akin to its parent form (some

say its progeny), theatre, as it was in any
of its great periods anywhere. Just as its
exponents laboured to sophisticate it
from the simplest modes of
entertainment and instruction into a ﬁne-

tuned instrument that can register the acts
and thoughts of their times, the,
puppeteer of today is concerned not only
with the tools of his craft — in
themselves of fascinating variety and
inventiveness — but also with the ideas it

in the capital. It also travels extensively to
35 other centres in the country, with
shows at all metropolitan cities and a
number of smaller towns. Associated
events in Delhi include an exhibition of

puppetry (3—24 September) at Crafts
Museum and a three-day symposium on

puppetry (3-5 September).
The exhibition itself is an ambitious
undertaking —— a display covering all
principal forms of Indian puppets, related
musical instruments, books and posters
on puppetry and puppets from several
other countries. Puppeteers at work,
making puppets, can be seen at the
exhibition, as well as puppet shows in
some of the most popular Indian styles.
The symposium brings together scholars
from India and abroad, facilitating
exchange of ideas and information,
quickening innovation and
experimentation in this exciting
performing art — as young today as it is
pristine.

can communicate.

All this points to an exciting
renaissance if not revolution in this art
form. The Indian Council for Cultural
Relations and the Sangeet Natak Akademi
thought it appropriate to organize a
representation of this artistic
phenomenon in as comprehensive a
manner as possible through the India
International Puppetry Festival.
This souvenir has been produced
specially to preserve the spirit of the
occasion. It could have been more
complete, but considering the magnitude
of the venture and some 40 different
puppetry institutions from all parts of the
globe including India, involving almost as
many languages, it is hoped the reader
will forgive the lacunae in this
publication. However, if the purpose is to

afford a fair view of the great range and
scope of the world of puppets, we
believe it has been well served.
A few further particulars about this
festival. It is the first Indian exposition of
its kind and scale. The festival involves 28
countries including 12 Indian groups. It

features 69 shows over 15 days (1-15
September, 1990) at ﬁve different venues

Veena Sikri
Director General

Keshav Kothari
Secretary

ICCR

SNA

