AUSTRALIA

Lamont Puppets of Axel
Axelrad
Axel Axelrad became interested in
puppetry at school and then became a
student of HW. Whanslaw. He formed his
own puppet company of four, designing,
making, producing and operating puppet
shows in the London area.
In Australia, Axel has his own company,
Iamont Puppets, specialising in puppets
for TV, stage, ﬁlm and a large range of
hand, rod and string puppets as toys
which were awarded the Good Design
Label by the Industrial Design Council.
He performed in puppet shows for ’IV
Kindergarten Playtime, and for school

shows and was in programmes on
Channel 7 and 10 showing ‘How to Make
Puppets’. He created Ossie Ostrich and
the puppets for Magic Circle and
Adventure Island, as well as making

puppets for advertising.
He gives workshops in schools,
colleges and community groups and has
been asked many times to give
instructions in the simple puppets he has
designed. He has produced a book on
the subject. It is directed primarily at

AUSTRIA
The Pupilla Marionette
Theatre of Gustav
Dubelowski-Gellhorn

teachers for use in schools, and at those

interested in puppetry.
Axel Axelrad is President of the Union
Internationale de la Marionette (UNIMA)
for Australia. UNIMA is a worldwide
organisation furthering the art of
puppetry. He has attended many puppet
festivals both in Australia and overseas
including three UNIMA international
congresses, in the USA, Germany and

Japan, and corresponds with many
leading puppeteers throughout the world.

A critic, while describing a show put up
by the puppeteer Dubelowski, wrote that,
above the puppet, in semi-darkness, was
the face of the puppeteer which reﬂected
all the expressions of the characters in
the show. In such a situation, watching a
play could not become a thing in itself
but a dialogue with Dubelowski.
Gustav Dubelowski-Gellhom of the
Pupilla Marionette Theatre of Austria
testiﬁes to this. ‘Formerly I had a stage
with a frame and I stood behind it so that
I was not seen. The audience said the
plays were nice but I felt it was almost
like a theatre or a TV screen. The idea or
thought I wanted to convey was
invariably lost because the audience was
too absorbed in the puppets and the
theatre. Then I decided to play with my
puppets in such a manner that I could be
seen waist upwards by the audience so
that I could establish contact with them.’

Puppetry for Dubelowski is a medium
‘not only for entertainment but also
education, education not only regarding
how to cross a busy road or how to brush
your teeth but also education in art,
humanity and peace between nations
without the distinctions of colour, caste
or creed. All international puppet festivals

have an atmosphere of friendship. I have
found that when I am in France, Belgium
or in any communist country, there has
never been any hostility towards me.
‘Puppet theatre can express abstract
thoughts vividly. A rnarionette can do
what an actor cannot. A puppet can
become big or small or divide itself into
two parts. Also puppet theatre is much
older than human theatre It was the ﬁrst
dramatic art in the world. However,

laments Dubelowski, ‘puppet theatre in
Austria and Germany has become only an
entertainment medium. It is not taken as

an art. There are very few puppet theatres
for adults. The texts are not of much
literary worth. Authors and poets have
hardly written for puppet theatre, except
for a few like Count Poccy.
‘My theatre is a so-called chamber
theatre (small) with a maximum capacity

fOr about ﬁfty peOple, mostly adults. For
eleven years I have played with petites
marianettes a la clavier (six- inch

standing puppets without strings). later I
heard that standing marionettes were
used in France 150 years ago but they
were different from mine. I believe that
these puppets are my invention,’ says

Dubelowski. Before using these puppets
he had used stick and string puppets. He
quotes John Whight, the English
puppeteer, who said, ‘only small things
are beautiful... Would rnarionettes be
lovable if they were huge? No, they
would be macabre and fearful.’ This is
exactly how Dubelowski feels. ‘I’ve also
chosen these because it is possible for

