through the student. But when her
second husband learns ofher stupid
deed, he chases the student. He catches
up with him at an inn but, not knowing

him, enquires from him if he had seen a
student. The wily young man says he saw

him go off in a particular direction. And
as the farmer goes walking down the
path, the student makes off with his
horse.
When the farmer returns home and his
wife enquires about the horse, he replies
ironically, ‘Oh, I gave the student the
horse to reach paradise as soon as
possible.’

His entire equipment of 30 puppets ﬁts

one man to play with up to 30 puppets at
a time.’
Though this is only his second trip to

It is strange when one thinks about it
— a man who plays with puppets only
four and a half inches tall can become

India, he has been in contact with Indian

world famous, and have the title of

puppeteers. He has been exchanging
puppets and scripts for plays with a
puppeteer from Ahmedabad. In exchange
for the Indian play, The Lion in the Cage,
he gave the Austrian play, The Peevz‘sh
Princess. He plans to use the story of
Savitri and Satyavan in his shows.
"Two years ago I met puppeteers from
Switzerland who had lived some years in
India. There is also much interest in
Austrian puppetry in India. In all the

‘Professor’. One has to know the man to
realise the answer. Small in stature, slight
in build, but very intense, a professional
from head to toe, speaks several
languages, a lecturer and authority on the
subject of Dr. Faust, well gone in years
yet as alert as a youngster.
Most of the performances played by
Pupilla are designed for an adult
audience — most are based around Dr.
Faust, although there are Weber’s

performances that I have given in India,

Frez'schutz, Jarry’s King Uhu, and several

the audience has been very responsive,’
he says. The problem he highlights
regarding the Indian puppet shows which
go to Europe is that of language. ‘I once
saw an Indian shadow puppet theatre
which was very uncommon for us. The
puppets had very little action and we
could not understand the language. If it
were English, perhaps it would be easier.’
For Dubelowski puppetry is not a
business. ‘My puppets are small, the
audience is small and the money I get is
small. However, I am able to make it my
profession because of the ﬁnancial
support given by my government. In
Austria a puppet player cannot live by his
plays alone. He can make money only if
he is engaged by warehouses and
factories to do propaganda for their
goods. But that is not puppet art.’
Dubelowski is very concerned about
the apparent lack of interest in puppetry
amongst the youth of western Europe.
‘They are only interested in music and
discotheques, and puppetry, they say, is
only for children and the naive. I am
seventy years old and the time is not long
when I must end my work and I hope
that I shall ﬁnd a successor who will take
my puppets and play with them.’

adventures of Kasper.
His plays seem to be laced with irony
but carry a serious message nevertheless.
Take for example his Dr. Faust Between
Black Magic and the Farmem’ Struggle.
This was presented in New Delhi in 1982
and is being represented in the 1990
festival under a new name.
Faust was performed on a full theatre
stage — a miniature one which could be
packed, along with all the puppets, into
one medium size travelling case. The
stage set was as detailed as the costumes
and puppets. Wall sconces lit, smoke
billowed forth, lightning struck, Mephisto
exited in ﬂames, and Faust’s book

magically came alive. The professor
presented his tiny performance with ﬁne
skills.
He explains the various sequences in
English before performing them,
imitating the various voices himself.
Another play, The Travelling Student in
Paradise, was about a farmer’s widow

who marries again but keeps pining for
her ﬁrst husband. When she meets a
student from a foreign country she
erroneously thinks he is from paradise
instead of from Paris. So she sends some
clothes and money for her dead husband

into a small wooden box and it takes
merely ﬁve minutes to set up the stage.
The wooden box which consists of two
hollow rectangular pieces joined together
at the middle with hinges serves as the

stage. Within minutes Gustav puts up the
cloth-covered cardboard paraphernalia
and the special lights on the stage placed
on a table. Various paintings form the
background depending on the sequence.
Then from beneath the painting Gustav
manipulates the puppets with his hands.
Having made the puppets himself and
painted the backgrounds, he naturally
puts his heart and soul into each
performance.
Unfortunately, puppetry is not a very
glamorous profession in Austria. ‘Ah, this
is nothing for adults,’ people say. ‘It is not
considered to be a great an; only
entertainment for children,’ laments

Gustav.
‘However, in Austria there are

puppeteers who are trying to make a
good puppet theatre for adults, trying to
make it a real art. After all it is a brand of
dramatic art,’ says Gustav.

Dubelowski visited the Institute of
Professional Puppetry Arts (IPPA) in
Waterford and performed a production of
Faust which is believed to be the same
script that Goethe witnessed before

writing his classic drama. Dubelowski
holds the Guinness record for “The tiniest
production of Faust.’
Dr. Faust or the Great Necromant

Dr. Faust, a 15th century German
scientist, promises to help some
rebellious farmers but then goes and sells
his soul to the Devil to become a rich
man. Though the pact with the Devil is
for 24 years, it ends halfway through as

Dr. Faust works day and night. Hence,
although he desired to become a

religious man ultimately, he failed as the
Devil came for his dues earlier than Dr.
Faust expected.

