BRAZIL
T‘eatro de Bonecos
It is through interaction with a young
public that Beto Andreetta and Beto Lima
are creating the language of a new
venture which keeps growing with every
new experience. Inventing stories,

creating puppets out of various materials,
recreating myths and, most importantly,
performing with these are the driving
force of the two Betos.
This voyage into the world of fantasy
and rrragic impinges on the ability of
children to create and grow. The
response is always immediate and deeply
satisfying. And the work goes to the
farthest reaches of Brazil.
Andreetta and Lima write the texts and
are responsible for directing, stage
designing and puppeteering apart from
singing and dancing. The live music of
Manoel Paciﬁco and Klessius
Albuquerque adds to the show.
The Farmer and the Wicked Monster
The story is of a farmer whose beloved
Rosinha is stolen by a wicked monster.
His adventures in trying to rescue her
bring him up against many colourful
characters from Brazilian folkore.
Andreetta and Lima use a mixture of
glove and rod puppets as also masks.

BULGARIA

triumphs over the bad. This is the will of
children.

Soﬁa Central Puppet
Theatre of Mara Penkova
Four Tales about One Dragon
The Soﬁa Central Puppet Theatre is the
ﬁrst professional puppet theatre in the

by Milena Masbatova

country. It was founded in 1946 by Mrs.

Four tales about four princesses and
one dragon that decided to marry one of
them. But which one? The ﬁrst one is
capricious, the second a weeper, the third
a spoilt girl that is engaged. The fourth is
so clever that she confuses the dragon
making him count his three heads. No
wonder that they turn out now two, now
three... The dragon of course is leaving
and going to look for a she dragon,
because there is no princess that will ever
marry a dragon.
The humour of the play gives large
stage possibilities. This is a story for very
little ones. It is performed by three actors,
readywitted, ingenious and excelling in

Mara Penkova and within a short time it
gained many admirers.
The Soviet, the German and the Czech

theatre have had a strong inﬂuence on
the deve10pment of puppetry in Bulgaria.
Today this theatre creates plays mainly for
children but there are also some plays for
adults. Every year the theatre gives 700
performances which are shown before an
audience of 15,000 people.
The theatre has traVelled abroad in
many countries in Europe, Asia, Africa

and America and has many friends all
over the world.
The Central Puppet Theatre believes
that their art helps people to become
better, because the plays are based on

folk tales in which the good always

puppetry.
The performance can be presented
without special Stage devices.

