Sirnmonette and Jon Frizzel are a few that

Haydn’s Philemon andBaucis, which had

come to mind. It was really amazing the

rarely been performed since its premiere
in 1773. He decided to perform the Opera

number of things that were going on.’

is working on a marionette adaptation of
his play, The Donnelly Trilogy. The
project ﬁts in well with David’s desire to

velleman, David and Muriel became

in his new style, using puppeteers in full
view of the audience.
To assist him in this ambitious
undertaking were Andrzej Downorowciz,
a gifted graduate of the National Puppet

members of Puppeteers of America, an

School in Poland, and David Row, a

organization devoted to advancing the art

Kingston area teacher and puppeteer,
who had worked with Jim Henson on the
Fraggle Rock television show. Muriel and
Kingston music teacher Ruth Oliver
completed the troupe of four puppeteers.
David served as the director and
conductor of the production. He also

coast to coasr and Canadian puppeteers
can hold their own internationally),
David marvels that, ‘T‘oday if a young

made the marionettes, while Muriel was

time comes for them to retire from

responsible for their 18th century
costumes.
Philemon andBaucz‘s opened at the

teaching, ‘We’ll be retiring into a small

Grand Theatre on October 20, 1987, the

puppetry: "There’s a sense of inevitability
to it.’

David was also becoming more aware
of international developments in

puppetry in 1973; at the urging of
Toronto puppeteers Dora and Leo

form in North America. David has played
a prominent role in Puppeteers of
America: he recently co-edited a special
issue of their Puppetryjoumal, that is
devoted to puppetry in Canada, and is
presently vice-president of the 2 ,000-

rnernber organization. He is also a board
member of the Ontario Puppetry
Association.
In the course of a series of study trips
to the United States, Britain and Europe,

David was able to leam much from

diﬁerent styles of puppetry. He was
particularly impressed by the innovations

of Bob Baker, who has a famous puppet
theatre in Los Angeles. Baker introduced
David to a whole new way of presenting
marionettes. Instead of being hidden
behind a proscenium stage, the
puppeteers were in full view, and the
puppets came out and interacted with the
children in the audience.

In 1979, inspired by what he had seen
in Los Angeles, David formed his own

company, David Smith Marionettes. He
recalls with a smile the company’s ﬁrst
performance for a children’s Christmas
party, ‘where we received a magniﬁcent

fee of 35 dollars’. It was the beginning of
a thriving business. To date, David Smith
Marionettes have given over 300

performances of six diﬂerent productions
to school and community audiences
throughout Ontario.
By 1987, the stage was set for the two
main strands of David’s life —rnusic and
puppetry — to come together. While
doing some research, he discovered that
Franz Joseph Haydn had written several
marionette operas, of which two were
still in existence. The composer had
written these works for the Esterhazy
court in Hungary in the late 18th century,
a time when marionette theatre was '
extremely popular with the EurOpean
aristocracy.
David saw that it was the perfect
opportunity to blend puppetry and music.
A marionette opera, properly done, with

professional singers, chamber orchestra
and period costumes, was an expensive
undertaking, but thanks to a grant from
the Ontario Arts Council the project went
ahead. The opera David chose was

day after the stock market crash that has
come to be known as Black Monday.
Despite the unfortunate timing the opera
was received by the audience with
warmth and enthusiasm. The singers also
appreciated the chance to perform the
beautiful, rarely sung arias. ‘It was one of
those things you just had to do,’ David
says, ‘a real, real highpoint.’
While pursuing his puppetry career,
David has continued to work at Queen’s
teaching young musicians and future

see puppetry appreciated as a serious art

form, not merely as children’s
entertainment.
Delighted with the growth of puppetry

in Canada (there are now over 45
professional companies in operation

person says, “I want to become a

puppeteer and make a career of it,” there
is a strong possibility that he or she can
do so.’ As for David and Muriel, when the

business.’ David observes that he has
come full-circle, back to his ﬁrst love,

ALISON MACDUFFE
Little Red Riding Hood
A Rip-snom'n ’Melodrama
Cheering the handsome Hero and
booing the Vile Villain is as much fun
today as it was years ago, before the radio
and television.
’Ihe hero in this delightful spoof is the
brave woodcutter Harry Trueheart who
arrives in the ’nick of time’ to save our

music teachers. From 1975 to 1986, he

heroine (Little Red) from the clutches of

worked on a cross-appointment basis,
dividing his time between the music
department and the Faculty of Education.
It made for a hectic schedule, moving
back and forth between the two Queen’s

the villainous Wilfred Wiley WOlf.
The large handsome marionettes are
operated by puppeteers in full view of
the audience against a backdrOp of
attractive set pieces.

campuses. In 1986, David decided that he

wanted to devote more time to puppetry.
Now, he works just 60 percent of the time
at the Faculty of Education, so that he can
devote the remainder of his time to his
other pursuits.
David’s teaching is often closely related
to his work with puppets. He coordinates
a Kids on the Block programme, in which
student teachers use puppets to teach
children about the concerns of the
handicapped.
For the past several summers, David
has been reSponsible for the puppet

portion of the Kingfest ‘Children’s
Theatre WOrkshop.’ In addition, he has
worked in musical theatre in Kingston
and has been the conductor of the
Queen’s Jazz Ensemble and the Kingston
Symphony’s Intermediate Youth
Orchestra.
David currently has three children’s

puppet plays in his repertoire. He is also
involved in another, very different
project: he is acting as a puppetry
consultant to author James Reaney, who

