America, Ana Maria has travelled all

Techniques of Corrununication: Puppet

around the world collecting information

Shows. The person in charge of this

and history. It is said that she masters all
techniques. But if she had to choose
among hands, rods, shadows and
puppets, she still prefers puppets.
"Through the manipulation of music
and marvellous voices, plus a beautiful
scenery, everything can be achieved. In
Federico Garcia Lorca’s Mariana Pineda
lights are turned on and tears start to
drop,’ she says.
If she liked it since she was a little
child, why didn’t she devote herself to it
until she was grown-up?

course is Mrs. Allendes; she is supported

‘Because there was no school; there
was no way to develop it, no place where

to learn what I liked. But when Maria Paz
was a baby I met Clara Fernandez at the
Cultural Centre of [as Condes. That was
the beginning; I learnt to make dolls; I
became an expert later.’
When did she start it as a profession?
“When my children were grown. My
ﬁrst concern was to spend most of my
time with them.’
She also studied dramatic arts. Can she
make any comparison?

by Claudio Jordan, psychologist, and
other experts in communication.
“Till now, we could only ﬁnd some

schools, like the schools of teaching,
where university students were taught to
make puppets, but not to operate them.
When they have to present a function,
they come to us.’
This is a four-month course and
students have to attend it four hours a
week.
For Claudio Jordan, this is his ﬁrst

participation in a course of this nature.
‘We thought that it was necessary to
incorporate communication elements —

Professors of the School ofJoumalism are
in charge of them — and corporal work;
that is what I do. My duty is to prepare
them for better expression, doll
manufacturing, communication, ﬂexibility

and other situations in which the body is
involved. We are collaborating.’
Ana Maria has been making puppets for
20 years.

‘In Chile they are considered as an

‘I like dramatic arts very much, but I

entertainment for children, a solution for

studied them to become a puppeteer. A
puppeteer is twice an actress (for you and

mothers. But actually, they do not realize
how incredible is the power they have.
Puppet shows began in ancient times and
it was always devoted to adults. Only in
modern times have they been devoted to
children.’
What happens with puppets at
University level?
Unfortunately, in Chile there is no
money to teach this technique at
University level, as there is for example in
Argentina and Venezuela. I dream of
reaching that level.
Children often grasp a very fast
language, in images and words. Don’t
they feel that the puppet is a bit slow?
‘No. Their response is normally very

for the doll). Besides, this is the oldest

and most complete art in the world; here
you can ﬁnd modelling, architecture,
poetry, locution, acting —— all the arts!’

A World of Dolls
A Punch who was sitting
among the dolls of a beautiful bazaar
fell in love with a little pretty doll
when he saw her dressed in white and
with a bunch of blossoms.

And the little pretty doll with her
arms down

offers her honey moon to a soldier.
And it is said that during the night

positive. In my case, I work with various
hours
in the silence of the bazaar

lovely whispers are heard
from Punch.

Dolls also love,
from shepherds to harlequins,
and their little sawdust bodies

also die in grief.
The song was left in the air and Punch
only exists in the memory of the little girl
who is already grown.
The importance of the fantsay given by
puppets will come true. For the ﬁrst time
puppet shows, an ancient means of
communication, will be disseminated at

University level.
Diego Portales University decided to
back up a course on Non—Conventional

techniques, like gloves, puppets, Chinese
shadows, rods and shilhouettes. I never
show only one technique, I am normally
alternating techniques‘.
The tales chosen by Ana Maria are
normally written by Chilean authors.
‘Not the traditional ones. The idea is to
convey a message within coloured and
musical staging; this is for children’s
personal enrichment.’
How does she select music?

Iatin Americans, especially Argentinians,
as they have made lots of progress in
this matter.’
How can she combine her feelings and
the feelings of the author?

‘I feel a great respect for him. If it is a
tale written by Alicia Morel, I will try to
convey her feelings. However, I am the
one to choose, and it is in that option
where I put a part of my personality.
History conveys the values I share with
her, and if I want to change something I
ﬁrst talk to her.’
Plays are not adapted to the reality of
the audience?
‘I made some of them according to
their needs. I have been working in this
for many years, especially in rural areas.
First you have to live in their
environment and then see what they
need. Once we had to face a very serious
problem of scabies, and we had to teach

mothers the method to treat this disease.
We did it through puppets and it was very
nice. The cultural level in rural areas is
not as low as you think it is; people are
intelligent and receptive.’
Do they show good results with
handicapped children?
‘They are excellent. I have shown them
to mentally deﬁcient children, with very
good results, and also to children with

learning problems, with whom we have
succeeded. In this last ﬁeld, puppets
achieved better results than doctors
themselves.’
If there is enough time, she would like
to take up the tales of writers like Hernan
del Solar and Saul Schkolnik. She will also
continue in her post for Iatin America in

the Union International de la Marioneta.
She works for interchange with other
countries of the continent and it is her
responsibility to cooperate in tours of
foreign groups.
In July, the Swede Michael Meschke
was due to come to Chile, bringing the
Japanese technique of Kuruma and other
mixed media, and Ana Maria Allendes

would be his hostess.
Come September and her dream to
know India will be a reality. She and her
group received an invitation to participate

in the International Puppet Festival of
India, for 15 days.

‘I will take the puppet Sau Sau, that I
am still making, and another work in

silhouette with colour transparencies.’

‘I have my own composers; for

The plays the Guinol Theatre performs

instance, Daniel Tilleria. Besides writing
librettos he composes the music. There
are also other people who collaborate. It
is important to stress that I am always
looking for our own authors and

Serenata — marionetts
Traditional dance — marionettes
El Pececeto de Plata — shadow

composers. Sometimes I resort to other

Traditional Story — shadow

are:

