EGYPT
Cairo Puppet Theatre of
Salah e1 Sagga
The ancient Egyptians were greatly
interested in all kinds of puppets. In
addition to the religious purposes of tiny
statues, historians found that puppets
were used in artistic pursuits. Priests
used to present artistic shows in temples,
using puppets to explain the story of Isis
and Osiris, and that was the ﬁrst puppet
show in the world. Our villages and cities
also knew of Punch since the old days.
Now Punch himself has become an
artistic character whose behaviour
provokes the amusement of people.
During the Fatimid period, the shadow
play —— a theatrical show depending on a
certain type of puppets —was

widespread. History books have
preserved great accounts of those shadow
plays.
In modern Egypt and until the end of
the 19th century many European
historians have recorded their
impressions of shadow plays they
watched in specialised theatres spread all
over Cairo. They also watched Punch and
made a comparison between the Egyptian
and the Turkish Punch known as Karakoz
and the Greek Punch.
However, the spread of shadow plays
was greatly affected by cinema, which
attracted the attention of the peOple. As a
result, they deserted shadow play theatres
which could not cope with the cinema in
its development or themes. Certain
shadow plays, however, are preserved by

history, such as those written by Ibn
Danial. Although they were not the best
presented, they are the only works which
have reached us. To conclude, puppets
played an important role in religion, the
arts and witchcraft.
The establishment of the Cairo Puppet
Theatre was the ﬁrsr step in the direction
of the revival of this art. It was also an
embodiment of the interest shown by the
Egyptian Revolution in puppets and their
various arts. Egypt has allocated special
funds for the purpose and sought the
help of experts in the ﬁeld from other

This was followed by the ﬁrst purely
Egyptian play, Al Lila al Kehira written by
Salah Jaheen with music by Sayed
Mokkawi, puppets by Nagy Shaker, decor
by Mustapha Kamal and directed by Salah
el Sagga. The ﬁrst show of the Operetta
was at Bucharest at the second
International Festival in September 1960.
The Operetta won the second place,
achieving a new victory at the
international level which was not given to
older and more experienced theatres.
As a result of the continued success of
the theatre the state decided to construct
a new building at an estimated cost of
100,000 lira in 1962. The building is
considered the ﬁrst puppets complex in
the world. It is a 7-storey structure
equipped for all kinds of puppet shows.
It also includes training halls, painting
halls and a studio. The hall capacity is 370
seats. Now there are nearly 120 workers at
the theatre distributed as follows:
35 artists and directors
22 engineers for designing decor,
puppets and executives
11 working in the costume department
11 machinists and carpenters
6 in the electricity and sound
department
11 in subsidiary service (messengers,
cleaners, guards, etc.)

3 calligraphers and painters
16 administrators (ﬁnancial,
management, etc.)
At the top of this ediﬁce stands one of
its loyal sons, namely, Mr. Salah el Sagga,
Under Secretary, Ministry of Culture. The

theatre is characterised by the family
spirit prevailing among its members.
One of the basic characteristics of the
Cairo Puppet Theatre is that although it
started with marionettes, now it uses all

other kinds of puppets including stick
puppets, glove puppets, shadow play
puppets, black theatre puppets, masks,
etc. This was easy for the theatre as it
started with marionettes, the most

difficult kind of puppets. It also presented
a large number of its distinguished works
using all these kinds of puppets. Among
them are:

The most prominent directors of these
plays are Salah el Sagga, Mohamrned
Shaker, Ibrahim Selern, Ahmed Raafat,
Fiin Amir.

The most distinguished writers are the
late Salah Jaheen, Abdel Salam Amin, Bakr
Sharkawi, Beiram Tunusi, Abdel Rahman
Abnoudi, Moharnmed Shaker.
Distinguished poets are Salah Jaheen,

Abdel Salam Amin, Mohamrned Halawa,
Abdel Rahman Abnoudi, Sayed Hegab,
Shawky Hegab.
The theatre introduced a large number
of composers, namely Sayed Mekkewi, Ali
Ismail, Nabil Kamal, Helrny Amin.

The Cairo Puppet Theatre participated
in various international festivals such as
the Bucharest 2nd and 3rd international
festivals in 1960 and 1965, the Youth
Festival, Fest Berlin 1973, the Nancy
Festival, France 1971, Austria Festival

1981, Italy Festival. It also made many
artistic tours in all East European and
European countries including France,
Austria, the USA, Canada and many Arab

countries. The theatre contributed to the
establishment of puppet troupes in Syria,
Tunisia, Sudan and other Arab countries.

In addition, the Cairo Puppet Theatre
nosted various troupes representing
different artisitc schools from Romania,
the Soviet Union, China, France,

Czechoslovakia. Through this
international interaction, the troupe
acquired good experience. It also toured
the Republic’s cities and villages. Even
when its building was burnt in 1981 , and

the puppets, decor and repertoire were
destroyed, it started its shows only 15
days after the ﬁre, thanks to the sincerity
of its sons. It continued work in two
parallel lines, i.e., presenting new
programmes and renewing the burnt
repertoire. Today the renewal of all
successful works is almost complete,

thanks to the loyal family of the theatre
under the leadership of the great artist
Salah e1 Sagga.
MOHAMMED SHAKER

were sent to Romania, Czechoslovakia,

Tim Tim, Sim Sim Hameda and Nana,

Hungary and Poland to acquire
experience in the ﬁeld.
The ﬁrst show presented by the Cairo
Puppet Theatre troupe on March 10, 1959
was Al Shatir Hassan and The Sultan’s
Daughter, which met with great success.

Gulliver, The Tiny Talleative Elephant,

Hassan the Fisherman
Written by Shakir
Poems by Walawa
Music by Nabil Kamal
Puppets and decor by Naglaa Raafat
Directed by Salah el Sagga
Abu Ali
Prepared by Said Hagab

Goha and Banoura, The Lazy Bear;

Puppets and decor by Neglaa Raafat

Round the World in 80 Days, We Choose
for You, Sinhad and Princess

Directed by Salah el Sagga

countries such as Romania, the Soviet

Union and Czechoslovakia. Scholars also

Al Lila al Kehira, Shahahuddin ’5

Donkey; Sah Sah plays: The Sultan’s
Daughter, Pu nchinello, The Funny Code,

The Nightingale and the Rose; Sim Sim
plays: Sim Sim the Naughty Boy,
Adventures ofSim Sim and His Donkey

Sheherazade Hassan the Fishennan, Abu

Ali.

