GERMAN DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC

Puppet Theatre Erfurt
The six-member group led by Roland
Merritz performs a fairy tale and a

children’s play.
Hansel and Gretel

Pzglet and Wolf

INDONESIA
Wayang Golek Theatre
The tradition of puppet theatre in
Indonesia is ancient and internationally
renowned. The best known form of the

Wayang (puppet theatre) has traditionally

FRANCE

Music by Gino Negri
Staged by Massimo Schuster

Theatre de L’arc-en-terre

of Massimo Schuster

It is evident that the most beautiful
monument for Pere Ubu — and at the
same time the biggest existing structure

in Meccano — is the Eiffel Tower. As we
Since its inception in 1975 the Theatre
de L’arc-en-terre has produced over 20
shows in an effort to convince us that
puppet theatre is not necessarily
synonymous with children’s theatre.
Massimo Schuster, who directed all the

productions of the troupe, is a diploma
holder from the School of Dramatic Art,

Piccolo Teatro of Milan, and was a
member of Peter Schumann’s Bread and

Puppet Theatre, professor at the National
School of Puppet Arts, CharlevilleMezieres and artistic director of Theatre
Massalia at Marseille. He was decorated
with the Ordre de la Grande Gidouille by
the College de Pataphysique.
Arc-en—terre was founded at Marseille
with the support of the Cultural Office of

the City. It received a grant from the
Ministry of Culture.
The troupe’s latest productions include
La tragique hz'stoire de Macbeth (The
Tragedy ofMacheth), L ’honneur de

Rodn'gue ou l’hz'stoz're du Cid (Rodrigue’s
Honour or the Story of the Cid), Uh u Roi,
The Iliad and Le hleu, blanc, rouge, et le
noir (Blue, White, Red and Black)
produced for the Autumn Festival, Paris,

in December 1989.

Ubu Roi
by Alfredjar'ry
Puppets by Enrico Baj

all know, it dates back to 1889, a year

after the first public puppet show of Ubu
by Theatre des Phynances, handled by
Jarry himself.
The tower weights 7,224 tons, that is to

say, the weight of Pere Ubu on an empty
stomach. Its scale of maximum oscillation
at its summit by strong winds is 11 cm.
Who can accuse Pere Ubu of lesser
resistance to winds and inclement
weather?

been the Wayang Kulit. However, the
form being presented at the festival is
Wayang Golek which is played with
carved wooden puppets. The form hails
from West Java and is considered a folk
theatre tradition. The audience in the
Wayang Golek performance is seated in
front of the small stage and can see the
puppets directly as well as the Dalang

(puppet-narrator). Usually performances
are not held in theatres but in open areas
or courtyards. These are traditionally held
to celebrate festive occasions.
K'z'lez's Tunggarana or a Thousand
Gatotkachas directed by Tim Purbaya.

Musicians-Jami, Koswara, Saidi, Ukar.

80 the Eiffel ’I‘oWer is wonderfully
immobile. Small headed and with a
bulging belly, it swallows up merrily,
every year, hundreds of thousands of
visitors who climb up the spiral staircase
for the sheer pleasure of giving
themselves up to Ubu’s favourite
preoccupations: eating and admiring the
superb landscape.
It is a pity the Eiffel Tower is not

painted green and the 20.24—metre
television antenna atop it is not replaced
by a gigantic torch, so that it can then
better fulfil its role of the green candle,
illuminating Paris, France and the world.
The show owes much to the brilliant
intuition of Alexandre-Gustave Eiffel who,
for the ﬁrst time, had the vision of the

metallic architecture of Pere Ubu. On his
1 1 1th birth anniversary, let us pay our
tribute to Alfred Jarry. . .
Long live Alexandre—Gustave Eiffel!
Long live Pere Ubu! Long live Meccano!

Techm'cz'ans: Nugroho, Agus Ds,

Suprihatino.
Bomanrakasura, king of Trajutrisna, was

angry when the Pandavas set up a fort and
a temple at the border of Amarta. But all
these come quickly to an end, for the

heroes of Amarta, led by Raden Arjuna
and Raden Gatotkacha, could destroy the
trouble- makers.

