JAPAN
Hachioji Kuruma Ningyo
japan has a rich puppet theatre.
Historically, the origin Efjapkantleje
u etr oes way bac to t 1e ara era
E7 $579311)? In the middle of the Edo era

( 1605- 1868) a highly artistic puppet
theatre, Sanninzuki NingyoJoruri (the
puppet ballad drama operated by three
men), which is known as Bunraku today,

was created. Sanninzukai puppets (height
about 90 centimetres) can make physical
expressions as good as human actors. But
a puppet’s being operated by three men
is hard to learn and uneconornical, too.
So later, from the end of the Edo era to

the beginning of the Meiji era (18681912), various kinds of newly devised

Hitorizukai (puppets for one-man
operation) were created. Most of these

puppets were about half the size of those

IRAN
The Sara Group Theatre
The Iranian carpet is like a calm river
which reﬂects the faces of Iranian girls
bent over them. They weave their dreams
of journeys to far-off lands with orchards
full of ﬂowers and bewildering birds in
blue skies. These they weave with their
innocent, warm ﬁngers, so be careful not

to step roughly upon them so as not to
trouble the dreams of this land’s humble

girls.

शं

Sarah is the story of one such girl, a

brief outline of which is as follows:
Sarah with her grandmother, Bibi
Setareh, lives with one of Iran’s nomadic

tribes. Winter is passing, spring is arriving
while all the tribesrnen are making
themselves ready to decamp. A drought
caused the death of most of their animals,

amo
them Sarah’s and Bibi’s only
mare. The grief of this death makes Bibi
Setareh very sick. The tribe’s chief visits
Bibi and Sarah to tell them that the
season to move to new pastures has
arrived, but due to a shortage of horses

they would have to walk, which is
illogical because of Bibi’s sickness, so he
advises them to stay there. The chief of
the tribe promises to send them a mare
after they arrive at their destination. Bibi

mare. She starts to weave with the only
threads they have, which are colourless,

and designs the pictures of two horses on
the rug. The horses start to talk and
blame her for their colourless manes and
tails. Sarah agrees to give them her hair’s
colour and their long manes and tails
become black. The colourless ﬂowers she
has woven blame her too, so she gives
them the rosiness of her cheeks and lips.
Fawns and grass on the rug also
acquire the colour of her lashes and
green eyes.
Now ﬁnally this colourful rug is
complete after seven tiresome days and
nights.
It attracts everyone’s attention to the

extent of amazement, but when they turn
to Sarah they see a pale face with no
colour, just a smile on her lips.
The play Sarah is performed with a
combination of two styles of puppetry,
bunracco and shadow. The puppets are
approximately one metre in height and
are manipulated by black veiled
puppeteers. The story is narrated by a
singer performing live with the traditional
do tare instrument of Iran. The patterns
and people will be exposed in the
shadow style.

operated by three men. In that respect,
they are retrograde as compared to the
previous period. However, the effort to
make it possible for one man to operate
the same puppets used by three men
brought about the invention of Kuruma

Ningyo (pulley puppets).
Yamagishi Ryuichi alias Nishikawa
Koryu I (1824-1897) was born in the
present Saitama prefecture and worked in
the puppet theatre both in Osaka and

Edo (present-day Tokyo). Studying the
available type of puppets, he continued
the process of reform till he invented the
implement called Rokuroguruma (a
pulley). The character of Kuruma Ningyo
is that of one man sitting on the pulley to
operate a puppet alone and hence came
the name Kuruma Ningyo. These
puppets” feet can step on the stage, which
gives a sense of stability and power to the
play.
As an accompaniment to the puppetry
in most cases, the ballad named

Gidayubushi is used, but today not only
does such traditional Japanese music but
also music using a synthesizer
accompany the puppetry, The

performance of Kururna Ningyo with
other theatrical arts is also becoming
more common.

Hachioji Kuruma Ningyo (the Hachioji
Pulley Puppet Theatre) has been
designated an intangible asset of Hachioji
City in the repertoire.

sadly says to Sarah, ‘If I don’t move on

with the tribe like always, I will die and
you will be alone so it is better for you to
go along with the others.’
Bibi is the only person Sarah has in this
world, so she decides to Weave a rug in
order to earn the money to buy another

The repertoire of the theatre, apart

from the three plays to be performed at
the festival, includes:
Hidakagawa Iriajzakura (The Story on

the Banks of the River Hidaka).
This play belongs to the so-called

