Dojojimono, a popular genre of not only
puppetry but also of Kabuki theatre,
which depicts the legend of the bell of
Dojojo temple in Kishu province. The
story is of a young priest, Anchin, and a
girl named Kiyohirne.
Shinhogaku Y'ukionna (Snowwoman)
This play is based on the ghost story
‘Yukionna’ (Snowwoman) written by

Iafcadio Hearn alias Koizumi Yakurno. It
was ﬁrst performed by the Nishikawa
Koryu Company at the National Theatre
ofjapan in 1983.

Sakura Giminden (The Legend of
Sakura)
This drama deals with the subject of
peasantS’ revolt in the early Edo period
and was written by Kawatake Mokuami
and others. For the beneﬁt of peasants
the leader of the riot, Sakura Sogo,
appeals directly to Shogun Ietsunna, the
fourth Shogun of the Tokugawa
Shogunate, risking his life.

Tsubosaka Kannon Reikeni (The
Miracle of Avalokiteshwar of Tsubosaka
Temple).
A play in the Sewamono genre of
drama, which depicts the life and society

of the common people of the time. It is a
Gidayu ballad drama written in the Meiji
era. The drama centres around the
devotion of a blind man, Sawaichi, and

the virtue of his wife Osawa. By the
protection of Avalokiteshwar, once dead
Sawaichi revives and recovers his sight.
Datemusume Koi no Hikanoko
(Oshichi’s Love)
This play is an adaptation of a
Sewamono play, Yaoya Osbz'cbz', written
by Kaion. It is the tragic love story of a
girl named Oshichi. Unlike the original
play in which Oshichi commits arson, in

this version she climbs a ﬁre tower and
strikes the forbidden ﬁre alarm.
Kururna puppets have the following
characteresti cs :
Their feet have T-shaped devices. A
puppeteer holds it between the big toe
and the ﬁrst toe. By this device the feet
move and step directly on the stage.
The neck is operated by the left hand.
The nodding head of a puppet is
expressed by the movement of the
middle ﬁnger and the shaking head by
the movement of the wrist. Thumb
movement brings the up and down.
motion of the left hand of a puppet. So
the feelings of a puppet are expressed
just by the left hand of the puppeteer.
The Kururna Ningyo has the following
devices:
The pulley is called Rokurogururna and
it has two small front wheels and one big

