REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Seonangdang of Sim
Woo—Sung
The theatrical group Seonangdang was

organized in 1966, annexed to the
Research Institute of Korean Folk Drama
with the purpose of unearthing and
transmitting traditional Korean arts. It has
been engaged in large part in the
representation of traditional puppet

shows such as Kkoktugaksinorum (folk
puppet play), Baltal (food masque
dance) and Mansokjunghori (the shadow
play of the priest Mansok and also in
publishing more than 200 reports on
traditional masque dance plays.
The theatrical company Seonangdang
was ernergently asked to take a more

intensiﬁed part in the RIKFD to
rehabilitate the original life and culture of
the Korean people which, it found, had
either been lost or had deteriorated in
the course of time and was endangered
by the abolition of a historic tradition.
In 1979, professional artists and
theoreticians in the ﬁeld of playwriting,
music, staging, performance, theatrical art,
puppet-making and puppeteering
gathered to attain the realization of
synthetic theatrical arts ﬁt for the present

generation without losing the
characteristics of the originality and
diversity of the traditional Korean arts.
It may be presumptuous for the group
to try to lead a movement for which the
RIKFD is responsible. It is needless to say

that our principal object is to revive our
particular traditional arts. Yet, it is further
suggested that a new and progressive

exploitation of this ﬁeld of culture
requires the supplementary provision of
other sources of culture, eastern or
western, old or up-to—date.
We believe that this historical task can
be steadily achieved only through the
continuous processes of our efforts and

hard work in collecting and establishing
concepts of art and artistic forms.
SIM WOO-SUNG

Chairman & Director
Research Institute of Korean Folk Drama

Korean puppet theatre has many
possibilities. In this case, the possibilities

mean room for development. In other
words, Korean puppets leave much to be
improved upon in spite of their long
tradition.
It is true that the Korean puppet theatre
had some problems in its way. For

