A serious work here means it clearly
shows the peculiar quality of the Korean
.
people as well as the phases of the times
mere
e
abov
In other words, it rises
rehabilitation of traditional puppet ShOWS
ng
and creates a new path by interweavi
western theatrical elements with those of
Korea.

.
Sim Woo-Sung has begun to
manufacture puppets after a long period
of studying and collecting materials for
his own show. But manufacturing
puppets has not fully satisﬁed him so far
as his desire to express is concerned.
Therefore, he has changed his role from a
puppet manufacturer to a puppeteer. HIS

ﬁrst appearance on a stage was in 1980,
when he performed Hongdongz‘ ’5
Outgoing
The characteristics of his puppet show
we cannot fail to notice are as follows:
First, the materials and methods used
in puppet manufacturing are peculiar. For

example, he has manufactured some

of his artistic free will, I believe. And I

conclude that his earnest and eager
theatrical activities and academic efforts
will bring much more development to
Korean puppet theatre.
PROF. HYESUCK YANG
Namdo Deulnorae
A theatrical reconstruction based on
one of Korea’s traditional rituals by Sim
Woo—Sung .

‘Namdo Deulnorae’ is one of Korea’s
traditional labour songs transmitted to a
solitary island called Jindo, located in the
South—Western extremity of the peninsula.
Jindo is a peculiar island in which 80

percent of the inhabitants are occupied
mainly with agriculture because the soil
is mostly rich in spite of insular
conditions.

paper puppets (in Korean, Neokjun),

This island, on the other hand, is a

straw puppets and carved wooden
puppets like the Hongdongi puppet.
The reason of this peculiar

place where various folk arts are vividly

manufacturing is to create certain epic

qualities in his performance. That is to
say that, with these peculiarly

worshipping local gods) whenever New
Year comes.
As for ‘Namdo Deulnorae’, it has been

manufactured puppets, Sim represents

recognised as representative Korean

not only every emotion and feeling of the
Korean people, but also today’s reality.
of vocation and concern for social
conditions throughout his shows. It is his
excellent series of works like

ballad of farmers and designated as an
immaterial cultural asset.
This folk song is usually sung when the
farmers do their work. With this song, the
villagers ofjindo perform a very exciting
party of their own. The performing steps

Doubleheaded Man, The Door and

of this party are as follows:

Secondly, we can point out the sense

example, it used to persist in rediscovery
of traditional puppet shows in the sixties,
and again it excessively put the stress on
acceptance of western puppetry in the
seventies.
Since the beginning of the eighties,
however, Korean puppet shows have
been started along right lines of
development and opened up a new path
on the basis of tradition.
It is common for the course of
development to be initiated by some
frontier.artists and scholars who have
outstanding sensitivity and insight, and
can be completed with the efforts of
many successors.
Sim Woo-Sung, who has shown such

searched for a common tendency in the
eastern culture and tried to connect each
nation’s culture together in one
boundary.
All these characteristics have come out

N61me Deulnome (which has been

performed, for exorcism around

Seonangdang (a village shrine for

At first, there comes a community ritual

created recently) which makes us clearly

praying for the peace of the village and

see his view of the time and society.
Particularly, Namdo Deulnorae attracts
attention with its attempt to visualize the
background sound. Based on the
traditional arts transmitted to Jindo, an

abundant fruits of farm labour, and then

island known as an old artistic village,

together to the farm to work.

this work achieves the greatest possible

lifelikeness by having extracted its idea of
form from our tradition while the subject
matter is from today’s reality.
Thirdly, his entrance on the stage
signiﬁes the possibility of bridging the

follows the vociferous dancing of
villagers to the farmers’ music.
When the excitement of dancing

reaches its height, villagers come out
There, one person leads the chorus
and the rest follow it. Working and
singing people get to forget the hardships
of work.

outstanding sensitivity and sincere

gives another opportunity of cultivating

Finishing the work, they form a line to
return to the village singing and dancing.
And ﬁnally, when they arrive at the
Open square in front of the village, they
end the party entertaining themselves

scholastic spirit, can be pointed out as a
great pioneer in the theatrical world of

new methods of expression to the theatre

with singing and dancing again.

Korean puppets.

The fourth is that his puppeteering
upon the stage is noteworthy for the
inﬁnite potential it gives to a ﬂow of
Korean puppet shows since it reveals his

He had been supervising the Research
Institute of Korean Folk Drama for a long
time, and finally established its attached
theatrical group, in 1980 so as to perform
many ambitious and serious works in
earnest.

gap between puppet manufacturing and
actual performance, and besides that it

in this country.

continuous innovation to both artists and

spectators.

The ﬁfth is that Sim Woo-Sung has

Sim Woo-Sung has reconstructed this
ritual party and labour song into a
theatrical form. And he has made an

attempt to visualize the sounds based on
that ritual.
Actor: Sim Woo—Sung
Director: Park Yong-Ki
Stage Manager: Kwon Huk-Ki

