Amelia Iapena-Bonifacio, playwrightdirector, is a leading force in children’s
theatre and the art of puppetry in the
Philippines and Asia today. A muchawarded playwright and ﬁction writer, she
has been a teacher to some of the
country’s leading young authors. She has
been instrumental in the encouragement
of writing for children through her active

winning Zarzuela, Ang Bundole (The
Mountain), with music by. Fabian Obispo

participation and lectures in children’s

International Theatre Festival in Nancy,
France. This production received standing
ovations at all its performances. Her
prize—winning poetical play, Ang
Paglala/ebay nz' Sz'sa: Isang Nob sa Laguna
(Sisa’s Travel: A Noh in Iaguna) was
successfully directed'by Tony Mabesa in

theatre workshops and puppetry festivals
in the Philippines and abroad.
Born in 1930 to parents in the business
district of Binondo, Manila, Iapena-

Bonifacio was educated at the Balagtas
Elementary School and the Arellano High
School where her writing life began with

the publication of her stories and poems.
She was chosen literary editor of the
Arellano Chronicle, a much-awarded high
school journal. When she entered the
University of the Philippines as a major in
English, she found herself in a select
circle of young writers who conducted
regular workshops in order to discuss
their work and who stagernanaged some
of the most exciting literary events in the
country, including the visit of William
Faulkner. On campus, her writings gained
the attention of her mentors, won prizes
and publication in national magazines.
She was selected as literary editor of the
prestigious university paper, The
sz'lzppz'ne Collegian.
Likewise, her work as a designer of
high school productions was carried over
to Diliman, where she designed book

covers, programmes and sets for various
productions includingmusicals and one
jazz concert. She also became known as a
painter in a writers' and painters’ group
called the Primitives.

In 1956, she was awarded a Fulbright
Smith-Mundt scholarship which enabled
her to enter the State University of
Wisconsin in Madison for a Master‘s
degree in theatre arts. She distinguished
herself by winning two major prizes in
the UW playwriting competition for

Sepang Loca ( 1957) and Rooms (1958).
Both plays were produced at the UW Play
Circle and favourably received. The
second play was subsequently published
as an acting edition of Row & Peterson.

She trained under J. Buerki of the UW
Idea Theatre and Kirk Denmark of the
Beloit Court (arena) Theatre where she
worked as stage manager for two
summers under the Beloit College
Honours Programme.
Those prize-winning plays were
followed by many others including the
frequently staged Pagbz'bz'nyag sa Apoy at
Dugo (Walking Sticks and Fans), Mas/eara
and Talluban (Three Plays). Her prize-

and Rodolfo de Leon and directed by
Behn Cervantes, as the opening
production for the inauguration of the
WM. Guerrero Theatre moved its
Cordillera participants to tears. In 1977,
Anton Juan brought it as a second part to

the play of Aurelio Tolentino to the

the UP. Abelardo Theatre and Anton Juan
in the CCP T‘anghalang Batute. Iater, it

was set to music by Dean Lucrecia Kasilag
and taken on a world tour by Alice Reyes
and her dance company. At the Gala
Dance Performance with the worldrenowned Marakova, it was selected as

the dance number for the Philippine half
of the programme. This production has
been recorded on LP and cassette tape.
But it is to children’s theatre and
puppetry that Mpana-Bonifacio gave her
most enchanting and educative work in a
total of 24 plays, starting with six plays
which were published as Anz‘m na Dula
Para sa Bata with illustrations by her
daughter, Amihan, then aged six. Amihan
is now a Senior in UP. and Amelia’s besttrained puppeteer and musician as also
the Assistant Director of her worldrenowned Teatrong Mulat ng Pilipinas. In
recognition of its stature as the country’s
premiere children's theatre, her company
won one of the four CCP major awards
for theatre production in 1987, making it
the only troupe in the children’s theatre
category to be honoured nationwide.
Her children’s plays were inﬂuenced
by her exposure to the traditional theatre
ofJapan, particularly the Bunraleu, her
ASPAC Research Fellowship in 1973 and
the Ford Foundation SE Research
Fellowship in 1974-75 to study the
Wayang Golek and Wayang Kulit of
Indonesia and Malaysia and the Nang Yai
of Thailand. The enchant'ment of Asian
total theatre, including the invocatory
prayer, is reﬂected in her children’s

the Asian and the Christian in the arts’.
It is with her experimentation in
children’s theatre and puppetry that

Iapena-Bonifacio gained the attention of
a young foundation, the Toyota
Foundation ofJapan, which was ﬁt to
assist her in getting in touch with other
companies in the region through an
international workshop for children in
order to celebrate its 5th anniversary. Her
preposed research in children’s theatre in
Asia became the ‘motivation’, according
to Ms. Kasue Iwarnoto, for the
International Workshop on Living
Children’s Theatre in Asia which is now
in its tenth year. It has been successfully

held in Japan ( 1979 International Year of
the Child), Philippines (1983), Malaysia
(1985) and Thailand ( 1987). It is due to
be held in Indonesia in 1989. Needless to
say, its inﬂuence on children’s theatre
and literature in these countries has been
quite tremendous.
Known as ‘The Philippine 'I‘eam’
during their international performances,

her Teatrong Mulat ng Pilipinas has had
much exposure in foreign publications.
In several dailies in Malaysia, which

featured stories on the KL Arts Festival of
1985 and 1986, Iapena~Bonifacio was
called ‘Professor of Stories’ and by Dr.
Krishen Jit the ‘Grand Dame of South East
Asian Children’s Theatre’.
Author of 10 books and numerous
essays, she is also known as a researcher.

Her research on the Philippine Zarzuela
in 1962, which was later published as The
‘Sedz'tz'ous’ Tagalog Playwngbts: Early
American Occupation, opened the

ﬂoodgates to similar studies at the
University of the Philippines with eight
researchers tackling the same subject in
several regions of the country. Her
researches on Asian theatre and later on
children’s theatre have found adherents
in a number of researches and theses in
several universities and colleges.
Since 1986, as director of the UP.
Creative Writing Centre where she is
directly involved in the cause of writers,

she streamlined many projects for writers
and instituted the ﬁrst Francisco Arcellana
Novel Writing Competition.
Her troupe had been chosen to
represent the Philippines in Puppetry
Festivals in Taiwan and Belgium in 1988.
She is married to the UP. sociologist

theatre. Critic Hizon, after watching her
most ambitious puppetry production, her
version of a Cenaculo for children in
puppetry, concluded that {Paper Pasyon is Manuel F. Bonifacio, winner of the
truly a landmark in Philippine children’s Jacques Parisot Award in Geneva and the
PANTAS award in Rural Sociology, among
theatre, or even Philippine drama as a
a
for
seed
others.
the
sows
it
e
becaus
whole,
distinctive, interdisciplinary puppet
Ang Hiwaga ng Bilang Lima
tradition in the Philippines. Another
(The Secret of Number Five)
critic, Hallazgo, wrote that it is ‘a singular
It teaches the child how to put up a
o,
Filipin
the
of
meld
menal
and pheno

