show through animal forms created by

ROMANIA

hands. A counting show follows.

Tandarica Puppet

Ang Panghuhukom

Theatre of Mihaela
Tonitza 10rdache

(The Trial)

‘The Trial’ is based on a well-loved
Philippine folk tale. It is accompanied by
taped music composed by Christian
Ramilo and played on traditional
Philippine bamboo and brass musical
instruments combined with modern
electronic instruments such as the
synthesiser, electric piano and drums
played by members of the troupe.
lovable puppets consisting of two
monkeys, a bird, a frog, a turtle, a ﬁreﬂy
and a mosquito were designed by
Maurice Carvajal. Both composer and
designer were former student—members
of the troupe. Professor Amelia IapenaBonifacio is the author and director of
this enchating puppet show and its
narrator since its premiere in Tashkent,
USSR, in 1979.

world
Soon after the end of the second
war, a group of artists, mainly stage
al
designers, set up the ﬁrst profession

puppet and Punch and Judy theatre in
rs
Romania, Tandarica, with its headquarte

in Bucharest in the autumn of 1945. It is
named after a character in Romanian fairy
tales, meaning ‘iittle Splinter’.
On 24 May, 1949, the small Bucharest

Puppet Theatre became the Tandarica
State Theatre, managed by its future
director Margareta Niculescu (up to 1986,
since then she has been Director of the
International High School of Puppeteers
at Charlesville-Mezieres in France.)

Monkey, the ban is enforced until one

ﬁrst of such wide representation, which
laid the foundations of a new kind of
aesthetics for ‘the art of animation’. The
theatre has played host to young people
from all over the world eager to learn the
art of handling puppets and of doing
Punch and Judy shows. It has contributed
to the setting up of similar theatres in
Osaka and Oslo.
Through upwards of 50 tours abroad

It is at the Tandarica Theatre that great
international puppet theatre festivals were

organized in 1958, 1960 and 1965, the

virtually all over the world, the Tandarica

Theatre has made known to people every
where the value and humanistic message
of its performances.
As a crowning of its activity in 1976, the
theatre was awarded the prestigious
Erasmus Prize for its particular
contribution to promoting European

An Introduction to Puppetry

The Trial
Written by Amelia Iapena-Bonifacio

Puppets designed by Maurice Cavvajal
Four Songs from the Philippine
‘Cinderella’

Stage design by Carmen Rassovski and
Daniela Voicila.
Music: Gioachino Rossini.
Puppets and voices: Brinduse Zaita
Silvestru, Cristina Popovici, Gina Nicolae,
Melania Petrescu, Mariana Zaharia, Valeriu

"The Trial’ dramatizes how King
Monkey decrees that no one in the forest
should talk loudly because he has a
headache. With the help of his Minister
day a little bird reports to the king that
the Frog is croaking noisily. The Frog
pleads that he was frightened by the sight
of the Turtle who carries a house on its
back. The Turtle pleads that she carries
her house because she was afraid that the
Fireﬂy might set it on ﬁre. The Fireﬂy
pleads that he carries ﬁre because he was
frightened by the Mosquito who
brandishes a sword. Having been found
guilty, the Mosquito is admonished by
the King to keep still. The mosquito stops
ﬂying around and alights on the King’s
head. As the King tries to strike the
mosquito with his royal mallet, he hits his
own head.

Cinderella
Written and directed by Silviu
Purcarete, after the brothers Grimm.

culture.
Out of all Romanian theatres
specialising in puppetry,.Tandarica is the
only one having two companies as well
as two performance halls (one .for

puppets and another for Punch and Judy
shows) in the very centre of Romania’s
capital. TherefOre it can give four
performances every day. Moreover, it has
its own workshops for manufacturing
puppets, scenery, sculpture, joinery ,
mechanisms, painting and costumes and

also boasts its own recording studio.
With close to 800 performances for
है (0,000 spectators every year in

Bucharest and on tours, Tandarica is now
considered, with full justiﬁcation, ‘the

national theatre for puppet and Punch
andJudy shows’.

Simion, Stefan Sandulescu.
There is a whole world around the

well-known characters (it is a sort of play
within the play unleashed by the spider,
the mosquito and the family of mice) and
then the personages in the tale proper
(imitating China dolls of the 19th

century). The music of Rossini’s opera
conveys humour, warmth and beauty to
this performance for children, though not

children alone.

