Tobias Huber are Knusi — the Story of
His Meadow Circus using different
techniques of puppetry with music on the
mandolin, viola d‘ambore, the tanpura,

etc. , and Clown Pepe — Pepe Clown with
similar techniques and music on the
violin, the saxophone, the accordion and
the banduria.
The music is a very important part of
the spectacle. The musical style range
from meditative and illustrative to
folkloristic dance music.
The voices of all characters are spoken
live: there is no recorded tape.
The concept of the play is open —— the
puppeteers take up the atrnosphare that
the spectators spread and try to realize
together with them a vivid theatrical
adventure.
The action becomes vivid for grown
ups as well as for children through the
intensive cooperation of picture,

movement, speech and live music.
Vividness is in fact the subject as it
surrounds us everywhere from the little
snail in the fresh green salad to the
chirping of the sparrows and even the
seemingly lifeless pebbles in a river. We
are reminded that our life is part of a
rnultiform and boundless living world.
Such insigniﬁcant things and facts are put
on stage in Knusi … the Story of His
Meadow Circus.

“The Huber brothers are most times
visible during their show; hide in no way,
but the Spectator is not disturbed by this
fact. Michael and Tobias Huber are the
go-betweens of the story. The puppets are
inspired by fantasy and the carefully put-

up world of the forest and the dwarfs, the
animals living in the meadow, the world
of a nature—bound child. The story is
constructed clearly and makes its
statement directly.
“The different levels of the story, the

world of children and the world of
dwarfs, are shown by puppets in different
sizes. Michael Huber animates glove and
rod puppets as well as marionettes.
Behind the paravent was Fredi, for

example, visible as a glove puppet. later
he sat down as a life-size puppet in
the auditorium, which of course

strengthened the identiﬁcation of the
spectators with this child.
‘During the circus, one was specially
eager to see the number with the beast of
prey. What was announced as a wild beast
turned out to be a harmless, shy snail.
"lhe Huber brothers from Basle have
given the visitors to this theatre, young as
well as old, a contemplative, entertaining

movement and music theatre.‘
Knusi — The Story of His Meadow
Circus
Knusi, a little dwarf, is living on the

The Pplus P magazine of the Swiss
UNIMA centre praised the ‘totally
different highly musical production of the
Huber brothers...only single scenes of a
supposed circus, simple and funny,
although very subtle too. Great was the

singing frog, that I would have liked to be
put at the end of Knusi’s Meadow Circus. ’
Fricktaler Bote says: ‘The puppeteer
Michael Huber and the musician Tobias
Huber arranged the play themselves.
Michael Huber as author inspires, nature
and simplicity by the ﬁgure of the dwarf
Knusi and presents it by showing little,
insigniﬁcant creatures. So the public
realizes the beauty of a butterﬂy, when it
spreads, a little conceited but delightful,
its wings on the stage.‘ The music of
Tobias Huber adds to the performance 3
special fascination. Through the strange
melodies the ear realizes the single
sounds much more consciously.’
And the Zuricbbz'eter calls it a
‘challenge instead of entertainment’.
Besides the puppet show of Michael
Huber is the music of his brother Tobias,

2 self-reliant part of the production. From
string-instruments like the mandolin, the
viola d’amore and the Indian tanpura plus
percussion instruments, he draws sounds
that produce atmosphere.

edge of a forest near a Swiss village. He is
a playful character and amuses himself
together with the grass, the animals and
his brother Kniff. later Fredi, a boy from
the village, arrives on the scene. He
would like to play there, but is bored of
being alone. Because he has not learnt to
watch the world, he cannot ﬁnd the

dwarfs. On the other hand KnuSi is
disappointed that he did not succeed in
making himself perceptible to Fredi.
Knusi would have liked to play with him
and chase Fredi’s tedium away.
A stone lying in the grass suggests the
performance of a ‘meadow-circus’ for the
people of the village. The stone itself,
Knusi and other inhabitants of their
meadow should help. In the following
(main) part of the performance, the
spectators are 'lucky to see the ﬁrst show,
of Knusi’s Meadow-Circus. Knusi, being
the director, presents to the public (later
even Fredi joins the audience) a frog, a
snail, a butterﬂy, a caterpillar and the
stone as his artists.
The different levels in the story are
shown with different techniques of
puppet theatre. There are glove puppets,
rod puppets and marionettes. They are
played from behind a paravent or with
the manipulator visible to the public.

TURKEY
Hayali Torun Celebi
Turkey is represented by a traditional
shadow puppet group performing the

play Cadilarbased on a Turksih folk The
director and chiefpuppeteer is Hayali
Torun Celebi and the technical assistants
accompanying the group are Haluk Yuce
and Hakan Tanboga.

