THE UNITED KINGDOM
The Percy Press Show
Professor Percy Press 11 presents the
traditional Punch and Judy show, which
he invariably performs every weekend in
the Craft Market at Covent Garden.
He has played there for the past ten
years in a professional entertaining life
spanning nearly ﬁfty years. In St. Paul’s
the Actor’s Church, there is a plaque to
the memory of his father, ‘Per'cy Press,
1902-1980, King of Punch and Judy’. He is

carrying on the tradition (as also is his

brother) and in his own right he has
become President of the Punch andJudy
Fellowship and Chairman of the British
Section of the Union of International

Czechoslovakia. Members of this original
company are now some of the leading
puppeteers in ﬁlm and television in the
UK and the USA.
As designer/puppetmaster for the
Midlands Arts Theatre Company at the
Midlands Arts Centre his productions
include The Servant of Two Masters,

USSR

Caucasian Chalk Circle, Gammer
Cartons Needle, The Good Soldier
Schweile, Tom Sawyer, Hansel and Gretel,

puts on two plays.

Let’s Make a Play, The Would-he
Gentleman, Little Malcolm and His

Struggle against the Eunuchs.
The John M. Blundall Collection of
Puppet Theatre is the largest collection of
puppets and related material in the UK
and includes prints, paintings,
photographs, posters, toy theatres, 3,500

Republican Puppet
Theatre of Tashkent
The Uzbekistan State Puppet Theatre
A Fairy Tale ofthe Blacksmith and

the Princess.
It is a play by Isfandiar in four scenes,
based on Uzbek fairy tales, and is

presented in English.
In far away deserts, in the hearts of the

mountains, there is the underground

kingdom. People cannot reach it. But the
young Princess, the daughter of the
Queen, often goes out to the earth along

books, etc, from all parts of the world. It

with her adviser and true friend, the

houses a unique collection of Punch and
Judy puppets and related material.
He is also one of the leading
authorities on the educational and
therapeutic use and value of puppets and
masks.
Author of more than 25 multi-media
puppet plays, his Cannon Hill Puppet
Theatre is the largest modern creative
puppet theatre in the UK. It has toured all
parts of the UK and has appeared in
international puppet festivals in Hungary,

Crow.
During one such stroll the Princess
meets a mighty Hercules, the Blacksmith
Avaz. For a long time he was roaming
around the world looking for a beauty,
Whose portrait he saw.
After this encounter the character of the
capricious and stubborn Princess has
changed. She started to dream of life on
earth, among human beings. But her

Germany, France, Italy, Hong Kong. It has

Kingdom, has forbidden the inhabitants

to go out.

XL5, Thunderhirds, Stingray, apart from
being stage director and designer of
touring revues in major theatres in the

been awarded major diplomas in these
festivals.
He has designed and directed
numerous musical works including
operas using puppets and masks. These
include Debussy’s La Boite ajoujoux as

UK.
He was co-Director of the Caricature
Theatre, Cardiff, designer, maker, leading
actor for the commissioned

commissioned by Simon Rattle, and
performed by him and the London
Sin fon ietta.

Marionettes (all non-political bodies).
In 1979 he had the occasion to play for
four days in Ahmedabad’s Darpana
Academy for Meher Contractor of India
UNIMA and in Bombay for Nick Rissen at
the National Centre for the Performing
Arts. At Indian schools where he
performed the teachers proved helpful in
putting across his ‘participation’ shows.
John M. Blundall, his collaborator, is a
trained gymnast and acrobat, a clown in
circus and variety. A pre-senior national
certiﬁcate holder in electrical engineering
. he has been head of workshops and
designer and maker of many characters in
the television series Supercar, Fireball

Commonwealth Arts Festival production
of Culwych and Olwen. This production

was also presented in the 1966
International Puppet Festival in
Braunschweig, West Germany, the 1966
International Puppet Festival and
Congress of UNIMA in Munich and
presented in three parts for Welsh
Television. He designed and made Peter
and the W'olfand an experimental
section of The Pilgrim ’5 Progress for BBC
Wales.
He established family puppet theatre
workshops at the Midlands Arts Centre in
the UK.
He created the Studio and Performance
Group at the Midlands Arts Centre. This
experimental modern creative puppet
theatre company performed a number of
major innovatory multi-media puppet

productions in the UK and in
international puppet festivals in

part of the South Bank Summer Festival,

He has studied all aspects of puppet
theatre in many countries throughout the
world, including a life-long relationship
with Sergei Obraztsov and the State
Central Academic Puppet Theatre of
Moscow, studied at the Bunraku National

Theatre in Osaka and the National
Theatre, Tokyo, with Monjuro Kiritaki and
Tamao and Tamamitsu Yoshida. He is a
master Noh mask maker after studies with
Hisao Suzuki in Kobe, Japan, and

organised two major Noh mask
exhibitions in the UK.
Professor Percy Press 11 andJohn M.
Blundall put on a Punch and Judy show at
the Delhi festival.

bridegroom, the insidious Prince Baimak,

trying to seize power in the underground

Cunning Crow managed to cheat the
div Makatil, who guarded the

undergrOund gates. And the Crow learnt
the secret of the magic sword, with the
help of which one could win against the
wicked Prince. Angry Bairnak chained

Makatil to the rock and decided to deal
with all the unruly elements. But the

Blacksmith Avaz came to help them. He
released the div and penetrated the
underground Kingdom. In vain the
Queen tried to urge the princess to
remain in the underground Kingdom, her
sorcery was also powerless, and Baimak’s
perﬁdy could not help either, and the

Princess decided to go out with Avaz and
she was ready even to sacriﬁce her life for

the sake of his salvation.
The arches of the underground
Kingdom collapsed, wicked Bairnak and
arrogant Queen vanished. Under the rays
of the sun the Princess has become a
beautiful girl Guly and she goes away
with Avaz, rejoicing in the light and

colours of the ﬂourishing land.

