Calcutta Puppet Theatre of
Suresh Dutta
From ancient texts we find that Indian
puppetry was well established about 5000
years ago. That only indicates that it
began much earlier, though we cannot

ascertain when. It has to be remembered

that puppetry in those days could only
remain as a court art or as an art practised
by the elite. The reason was simple.

Puppetry necessitated an amount of
artistic skill as well as some education to
absorb and recount the dialogues.
Then India passed through several
turbulent phases of history. The many
invasions it underwent left in their wake a
measure of foreign technological knowhow and cultural strains. These led to the
erosion of power of the rulers. Court
artistes, bereft of patronage, turned to the
masses for sustenance. They took to

puppetry which had been presented to

Ishara Puppet Theatre of
Dadi Pudumjee
For most of us who work in the
performing arts, the question of
Indianness recurs. What is Indian? Does
my work look Indian? Am I constantly
looking for a so-called Indian idiom
either in form or performance? How or
what can I draw from the local idiom or
make my own? How far is it valid to use a
fOlk form and to what extent adapt it?
In the beginning of the 19803 I
consciously employed folk idioms in
many of my performances: using either
the narrator, the style of performing or
was inspired by colours traditionally
used.
This slowly changed to improvised
performances with movement or objects.

I use materials from natual ﬁbres and
baskets to wood, papier rnache,
therrnocole, cloth, umbrellas and other

them in a simplified form so as to be
intelligible to them. This ushered in folk
puppetry. It essentially thrived on
religious themes.
Their forms and region-wise variations
are as follows :
Rodpuppetry : West Bengal — Danger

everyday objects that take on their own
character, never forgetting that the
puppeteer is as important as the
technique.
DAD] PUDUMIEE

Putul; Orissa — Kathi Kundhei; Assam —

Waking Dreams
The Delhi-based puppet theatre
performs a play in which myth, magic and
fantasy collide in a dreamscape that
dissolves the barriers between waking
and sleeping, between the conscious and
the unconscious. The ebullient moment
we are suddenly whole.
With actors, puppets, masks,
contemporary and classical music.
Conceived and directed by Dadi
Pudumjee.

Bommalatyam; Maharashtra —— Pingoli
Bohuliya; Manipur Iaithibi Jagoi,

Kathputla-Nach.
Marionette: West Bengal … Tarer Putul,
Rajbanshi Putul; Rajasthan -—Kathputli;
Orissa — Sakhil Kendhei; Kamataka
GornbeAtta; Tamil Nadu —

Iaiphadevi; Tripura — Putul Nach; Assam
— Putul Nach; Bihar — Jarnpuri Ka Khel,

Chhadar Badar.
Glovepuppets: Kerala — Pava Kathakali;
West Bengal— Beni Putul.
Sbadowprzppetry. Orissa — Ravan
Chhaya; Kerala … Tholpavakoothu;
Andhra Pradesh — T‘olu Bornrnalatta;

Kamataka —’I‘ogalu Gornbe Atta; Tamil

However, a conscious folk aura persisted.

Cast: RS. Shelke, Puran Bhatt, Anita Singh,

Nadu — Kamba Ramayana; Maharasthra
— Chamdychhaya, Bohuliya.
Although rich in traditions, themes,

Recently, a diversion from these
inﬂuences occurred and a more mature
approach manifested itself, focusing on

Anqu Sharma, Ranjit Bhatt.

style, etc. , such folk puppetry almost

the idea transformed rather than drawing
on ethnicity.
Puppet theatre must make use of the
idiom, not as an end but a creative

means. Whether for children or adults or
both, one just cannot put on a show in a

always failed to take in its stride the
advances taking place in the arts of
puppetry elsewhere in the world. Also,

our folk puppetry followed the old
religious themes rigidly, leaving no scope
for inducing. newer themes and contents.

This state of affairs continued almost to

has also, through the years, assimilated

the middle of the 20th century.
To remedy this sorry state of affairs, a
handful of pioneers came forward in the
early 1950s The most memorable among

and changed.

them was Chittaprasad, a fine artist highly

style that has become outdated. I say this
of the puppet theatre of today and not the
traditional or folk puppet theatre which

