reputed for his graphics and drawings.
This remarkable man poured his spirit
and skill into the art of puppetry, and
produced puppet plays with modern

themes and excellent craftsmanship in all
directions. Madhulal Master, another
master craftsman, incorporated a great
deal of modern techniques of
manipulation in his puppetry, but stuck

mostly to traditional themes.
Perhaps the most lucky among
pioneers was Devilal Sharma who,

besides being an artist himself, had also a
thorough grasp of the traditional arts and
crafts. He applied his skills to modify and
develop folk puppetry. More important
still, he founded the Bharatiya Lok Kala
Mandal at Udaipur. Through it Devilal
helped organise the ﬁrst puppetry festival
in India, hold puppetry workshops and
conduct courses in puppetry, as well as
run a museum
After these pioneers a number of
puppet troupes came into existence, but

only a few of them are still thriving. They
are Calcutta Puppet Theatre, People’s

Puppet Theatre (Calcutta), Art Academy
Puppet Theatre (W. Bengal), Youth

Puppet Theatre (Calcutta), The Puppet
(Calcutta), Nalanda Puppet Theatre

(Calcutta), Darpana Academy
(Ahrnedabad), Chandrashala of Avishkar
(Maharashtra), Kamataka Janapada,

Yaksagana-Academy (Ka'rnataka), Mayur
Puppet (Lucknow), Natanakairali
(Kerala), Dadi Puppets (Delhi), Shriram
Art Centre (Delhi), etc.
Prior to starting work on puppetry, 1
felt the need to qualify myself as an artist.
Therefore 1 received formal education in
the ﬁne arts as well as the performing
arts. Further, 1 acquainted myself with all

aspects of stagecraft, lighting, sound; etc.

Finally cattle the formal training in
puppetry under Dr. Obratszov at the State
Central Puppet Theatre, Moscow. 1
regarded many other artistes as Gurus,
such as P.L. Deshpande, Guru Gopinath,
Uday Shankar, etc.

The universal scarecrow, .which is

halfway between doll and puppet, taught

me that the effect of puppetry has to be
simple in order to reach the millions.
Also, seeing the various ordeals of the
nation, 1 realized that my approach to
puppetry would be through the epics that
are known to all in this country. I have

shown in my Ramayana that man can rise
to the stature of the sun, which is the

ultimate origin of all life. Likewise,
through Sita I have tried to teach the
children that, beside the mother, we have
another greater mother, the motherland.

The emancipation of women can induce

