The Thogalu Gombe

Atta of Doddabalappa
Ki11ekyatara
Leather puppetry is even more popular
than string puppetry in Kamataka. It is

much more a part of everyday life. Unlike

n.

-

हु:

०३3० i!’
19 थीं १३ Q d:

हुँ

string puppetry, which is not identiﬁed
with any particular community, leather
puppetry is associated especially with the
Killekyata community. The Killekyatas are
a Marathi-speaking people who seem to
have migrated to Kamataka long centuries
ago and brought this art along with them.
The word ‘killekyata’, according to
some people, denotes a tribe or people
of humble origin who make a living by
narrating coarse or vulgar stories. There is
indeed a good deal of room for ribaldry
in their art.
‘Killekyata’ also means ‘an ill-shaped
man with a lean and hungry look’. In
Kamataka’s leather puppetry too there is a
character going by that name. This
character makes his entry after the
prOpitiation of the deities Ganesh and
Sharada. There is, further, a belief that

owing to the course of one of the
Saptakanyaka or seven holy maidens Shri
Krishna Himself animates the nude form
of the Killekyata. At one time the
Killekyata used invariably to be a nude
ﬁgure. Now he is only a wild, unkempt,
foul-mouthed ragamuﬂin with an equally
coarse, garrulous wanton for his mistress.
Leather puppetry consists of creating a
world colour behind a white screen. In
most parts of North and South Karnataka
they are comparatively small in size, from
one foot to four feet in height. In the
Turnkur, Bellary, Kolar and Bangalore
districts, as also in the areas bordering
Andhra Pradesh, they are ﬁve feet or even

taller. They are made of deerskin or
goatskin and lend themselves to delicate
crafting. Song and dialogue go on
alternately from about ten in the night to
sunrise. The music provided by the
orchestra bears the distinctive inﬂuence
of Doddata in North Kamataka and of
Mudalapaya in South Kamataka. One can
also notice the inﬂuence of Hindustani
classical music.
The musical instruments used in
leather puppetry include the droni, the
pungi, the ektari, the ﬂute, and the dhol.
Mention should also be made of a
specially rich sound produced by

planting a jowar stem in a vessel half
ﬁlled with water and thrumming it. Then
there are the instruments known as tali

and gangala (also called tanige shruti and

