uppanga), beside the tantuni (or
chaudike) and the pavari (or burburi),

Kathputli of Rajasthan

three strings. A few puppet characters,

the mukhavina and the tala or cymbals.

Mukhavina is clearly an import from
Mudalapaya Recently, thanks to the
increasing p0pularity of the professional

theatre, the harmoniurn too has gained a
place for itself.

Neither the puppeteers nor the
members of the orchestra are visible to
the audience. If the puppets are small,
the puppeteers can manipulate them

while sitting. If they are big, the
puppeteers are obliged to keep standing.
Below the white screen on which the
puppets cast their shadows it is customary
to hang thick black rungs or cloth so that
none of the people sitting around the
screen can be seen by the audience. The
lighting is so arranged that the screen
carries just the shadows cast by the
puppets and nothing else.
Leather puppetry depends a good deal
on sleight-of-hand. A man manipulates
two puppets at a time, one on each hand.
Opportunities are found to refer to some
incident or occurrence of current
importance.
Keechaka Vadhe

Upon completion of their exile in the
forest for twelve years the Pandava
brothers plan to spend a year incognito at
Viratapuri, ruled by King Virata. Bheema,
the second brother, joins the palace
establishment as a chef under the name
of Valala. Keechaka, a warrior famed for

his prowess, brother to Queen
Sudheshna, arrives in the capital. He falls

in love with Draupadi/Sairandhri and
seeks to make her his consort. He
persuades an unwilling Sudheshna to
send Sairandhri to meet him at an
appointed place at midnight. Draupadi
asks Bheema to help her. Under
instructions from Bheema, Draupadi
keeps the tryst with Keechaka who is
slain by Bheema.
Doddabalappa Killekyatara is one of
the renowned artistes of leather puppetry

in Kamataka. He has given performances
all over the State and has been awarded
theJanapada and Yakshagana Academy
awards.
The Thogal Gornbe Atta Troupe
comprises H.C. Boralingaiah,

Doddabalappa Killekyatara, Yankunna,
Virupakshappa, Keshappa, Shivalingaiah,
V. Sreenivasa Murthy and the only female
artiste, Bheemava.
KS. UTMDHYAYA

dexterity and imagination although
most of them are articulated with only

Amar Singh Rathore
Prem Bhat and party, Jodhpur,
present a play about Amar Singh
Rathore, a legendary Rajput prince of
Nagaur in Western Rajasthan, and his
brave deeds.
The [eat/3 or wood puppetry is the
hereditary profession of the nomadic
Bhat community ofWestern Rajasthan.
Amar Singh Rathore is the only play in
their repertoire. The rest are acrobatic
song and dance items.

‘The music of Kathputli theatre is
drawn heavily from the rich and varied
folk music of Rajasthan. The puppeteers
while speaking for the puppet
characters use a kind of whistle known
as Boli. It is made by stretching a thin
rubber tape in between two thin
bamboo strips tied ﬁrmly at both ends.
When held between the teeth and lips

like the court-dancers which are
required to make very complicated
movements, are attached with ﬁve to

seven strings which are usually tied to
their ﬁngers.
‘Kathputli theatre, as it survives now,
is not very dramatic since its play
proper has shrunk to the minimum, but
it never fails to fascinate and entertain
the audience with trick puppets, such

as the juggler with balls, horse rider,
and the Bhand of Jaipur. A mask-maker
with two faces, one of a man and the

other of a woman, is very popular. The

two faces are carved back to back or
neck to neck. The opposite face is
presented to the audience by skilful
manipulation. If the two faces are
carved neck to neck, the puppeteer

and blown, the rubber tape acts like a

gives a swift turn to the ﬁgure so that in
the twinkling of an eye the male ﬁgure
becomes a female one. If, however, the

reed and produces a shrill note. When
prose dialogue is spoken through it the

faces have been carved back to back,
the puppet ﬁgure is so draped that one

speech acquires an interesting and

face remains hidden under the skirt.
When the puppeteer deftly inverts the
ﬁgure the skirt covers the ﬁrst face and
exposes the other one. These trick
puppets fascinate any audience, be they
rural or urban.‘

weird character. At times the
puppeteers blow it to produce a shrill
trilling sound which helps in
establishing an orherworldly
atmosphere.
‘Kathputlis are manipulated by
traditional puppeteers with great

JIWAN PANI

