Tolpavakoothu of

Theatre ofAsian Countries held in the
Soviet Union in 1979. In August 1987, at

Krishnankutty Pulavar
Tolpavakoothu (leather puppet shadow
play) is presented periodically at the

Bhagavati or Bhadrakali temples of
Palghat and neighbouring areas as part of
the ritualistic worship ofthe goddess. The
theme is always the story of the
Ramayana. Tolpavakoothu is performed
in a specially built playhouse called

Koothumatham in the temple premises.
The puppets of the various characters are
cut out from ﬁne leather and their

shadows projected on a white screen.
Long ago there lived an Asura (demon)

named Darika, who was a threat even to

the gods and who also became an
intolerable menace to rishis and men. To
kill this Asura, Lord Shiva created the

goddess called Bhadrakali out of the
kalaleooda poison round his throat.

Bhadrakali killed Darika in a prolonged
battle. It was while Bhadrakali was
engaged in this battle that Rama fought

Ravana and killed him. She was unhappy
because she had missed watching this
event. That is why the story of the
Ramayana was chosen for Tolpavakoothu

and performed in Kali temples.
The Ramayana is specially written in
twentyone parts for Tolpavakoothu. Partly
in verse and partly in prose, the Adal
Pattu or acting libretto is often modiﬁed
by the performers to suit particular
occasions or contexts. To illustrate and
interpret the meaning of the verses, the
performers have from time to time added
stories, episodes, explanations and
dialogue. But these are not included in
the original palrnleaf scripts. The
explanations of the verses and the
dialogue are in a mixture of Tamil,

Malayalam and Sanskrit. The source is the
Kamba Ramayana in Tamil.
A long period of training goes into the
making of a good Pavakoothu artiste, who

begins when he is no more than seven
years old to recite the verses, to learn

them by heart and to imbibe the art of

making and manipulating puppets. For
some families Pavakoothu is a traditional
calling. The well-known Koonathara

family can boast four generations of
Pavakoothu artisres. Its present head is
Krishnankutty Pulavar.
The National Shadow Theatre Festival,

organised by the Sangeet Natak Akademi
at Bangalore in 1978, helped to confer a
national status on Tolpavakoothu. This art

form was selected for presentation at the
International Festival of the Puppet

the festival called Indian Manifestation in
Sweden, a Tolpavakoothu troupe led by
Krishnankutty Pulavar and myself
presented performances in Sweden.
Afterwards the troupe went to Greece
where in Hydra Island an International
Puppet Festival was conducted under the
leadership of the famous artiste Michael
Meschke.
Today there are about thirty practising

artistes of Pavakoothu in Kerala. This art
form, which was one conﬁned to the

temples as a votive offering, is now
welcomed outside the temple by the
people of Kerala and other states of India.
Deer skin is used to make the puppets.
When the skin has been cleaned and
dried, the outline of the puppet is drawn
on it. The next step is shaping the
puppets through careful chiselling. It is
their black shadows that should fall on
the screen and so the natural thickness of
the deer- skin is retained with care. The
skin is carefully cut to ensure that the
shapes, facial expressions and

decorations of the puppets are accurately
duplicated in their shadows. Tiny holes
are punched in the leather to highlight
the shadow.
Permanent stages for puppet shows
have been constructed in the compounds
of various temples. They are playhbuses
and are so positioned that they face the
image of the goddess in the temple. The
structure is raised well above the ground
level, covered on three sides and

provided with a roofing.
A long and narrow wooden plank is
fixed behind the curtain covering the
whole length of the stage. The lights
needed for the shadow play are placed
on this plank. Dehusked coconuts broken
into two equal halves serve as lamps.
These coconut halves are placed at
equally spaced distances on a row on the
vikz/eleumadam. Coconut oil is poured.
into these halves, and thick, broad-based
cotton wicks are placed inside them.
The two usual accompanying
instruments for Pavakoothu are the drum
axbupara and bell-metal cymbals. To
enhance the dramatic effect, the chenda,
maddalam, the gong, the pipe and the
conch are also played on special
occasions.

The Tolpavakoothu group will perform
an episode from the Ramayana.
G. VENU

