People’s Puppet Theatre
of Hiren Bhattacharya
Hiren Bhattacharya was a member of
the Indian PeOple’s Theatre Association.

’Ihe Yakshagana Puppet
Troupe of U. Kogga
Kamath
In Kamataka the four principal kinds of

puppet, by changing its heads, be made
to do duty for different characters or types
of character.
The Yakshagana puppet plays ofthe
Dakshina Kannada district are highly
stylized. Today there is only one puppet

He formed the People’s Puppet Theatre

puppets were in time developed into

troupe regularly offering performances,

with his wife Ratna Bhattacharya. He is a

seven different varieties … string

school teacher. PPI‘ has produced many
plays like Eletz' MorogerKabz‘m’, Dan'r

puppets, small leather puppets, big

Kbela, Cheri Fuler Fullei and Tagore’s
Rather Rassz'.

puppets and lez'tli bavalis (i.e., puppets
made of bark and paper).

Khude Patna: Rupkatha
“The Tale of a Little Painter’, written and
directed by Hiren Bhattacharya, is based

Karnataka from the twelfth to the ﬁfteenth

the rest having wound up for want of
patronage. This is the troupe of Kogga
Devanna Kamath of Uppinakuduru. All
the conventions and practices followed in
the Yakshagana human theatre are
sctupulously followed in the
puppet theatre too. The number of

centuries AD, for there are numerous

characters is as large, the costumes, make-

references to it in the literature of this
period, as also in epigraphic records.
Jointed puppets were quite well known

up, dance and music, the ﬂourishes of

on an Asiatic folk tale. Songs and music
are created by Ratna Bhattacharya
The play is in Bengali.

leather puppets, glove puppets, jointed

Puppetry seems to have ﬂourished in

till about the 19405 in the districts of
The play is about an old painter who
uses his brush for the people’s struggle

Mysore and Tumkur. Performances used

against an oppressive regime. But his son

shanties or in times of car festivals in
temples. The stage was reportedly a kind
of rectangular box, with the puppeteers
sitting hidden under the box and holding
up the puppets even as they manipulated
them.
Rod puppets are played by means of
two narrow but long iron rods, with
strings attached to the heads of the
puppeteers, which facilitates the showing
of such special actions by the puppets as
the lighting of a lamp, one puppet
putting a garland round the neck of

sketches in charcoal for his own pleasure.
When the father dies, he bequeathes his
brush to his son saying it has magical

powers. Whatever he paints comes to life.
The King clamps him in prison because
the painter would not use his art in the
kingdom’s behalf. The young painter is
adamant.

to be organized at the weekly fairs or

another, etc.

Whether in rod puppets or in string
puppets or even in jointed puppets the
materials used was always wood.
In the making of string puppets, the
costumes employed, the background
music provided, the style of dancing
used, etc, the inﬂuence of the local
variation of the art onakshagana is
clearly discernible. Once the makers of
string puppets were all members of the
Vishwakarma community, the Gudigaras.
Now the an is no longer the preserve of
any particular caste or community.
String puppets differ a good deal from
one region to another. They can be
divided broadly into three groups.
Puppets playing male roles are from 18
inches to 27 inches in height. Female
puppets are prOportionately smaller and
are so draped as to have even their feet
covered. Puppets fr0m Bellur and Ichanur
are particularly attractive. The latter are
not provided with feet. The puppeteers
so dance as they manipulate them that
one mistakes their feet for the feet of the
puppets.
In the same way that an artist can, by a

slight variation ofthe make-up, play
diverse roles in one and the same
Yakshagana performance, so can a

dialogue, not to speak of themes and
texts, are the same.
The puppeteers not only use
extraordinary skill in making the puppets
act in character but also display acute

sensitivity and creativity. It is on their
understanding and interpretation ofthe
complexity of the various characters that
the success of a play depends.
Other areas where expert knowledge is
essential on the part of the puppeteers
include ancient Hindu concepts such as
Yuga, Yugadharma, methods ofancient
Hindu warfare, principles of ancient
Hindu diplomacy, and so on.

As in the Yakshagana theatre, the
Bhagavata sings the cantos, and the
dialogue between the various characters
is improvised by the puppeteers
concerned.
The chief musical instruments are the
maddale, the drone, the harrnoniurn and

the cbenda. The puppeteers wear jinglebells on their ankles, and as they
manipulate the puppets, they too dance.
Narakasura Vadhe

Naraka and Muraka are two demon
brothers who, at Naraka’s instigation,
drive Devendra, king of the gods, from

his throne. Devendra comes for help to
Krishna, who ﬁghts and kills the demons.

The all-male Yakshagana troupe
comprises SR Pathoor, U. Kogga Kamath,
U. V'aman Pai, U. Bhaskar Kamath, K.

Dinakar Bhat, Rama Mania Chandan,
Narayana Billava, Shankemarayana

Shanbhogue, Subraya Mallya, NM. Shet,
Manjunath Maipady.
KS. UPADHYAYA

