'I‘olu Bommalatta
Nimakunda Puppet Association

The troupe performs an episode from
the Ramayana.
The Andhra shadow puppets are

unique in being larger-than-life ﬁgures,
complex colour scheme and varied
methods of articulation. Hailed as the
earliest entertainment through coloured
transﬁguration, the shadow puppet
theatre was, for long, the singular mode
of entertainment for the rural people.
They were also popular in Karnataka,
Orissa, Kerala and Maharashtra, with the

difference that they were in black and
white, smaller and less articulate.

Classical references indicate that the an of
shadow puppetry occupied an important

part of rural entertainment in Andhra at
least from the 12th century onwards.
The manipulation of the highly stylised
puppet ﬁgures is intricate and subtle. As
the limbs of the ﬁgures are joined
together and move separately, great care
is to be taken to move each limb
simultaneously, for the movement of the
limbs denotes the expressive language of
the puppets. It is intricate because it must
create a stylised effect while retaining
much of the realistic visual impact. The
essential thing is to suggest the posture of
the puppet ﬁgure on the screen which
exempliﬁes the prOper atmosphere and
mood ofa particular sequence.
The Andhra puppets, because of their
multi-coloured nature and their height,
are fascinatineg articulate. The dramatic
contrast of the characters is achieved, ﬁrst
of all, visually. For example, the

difference in the ﬁgures of Ravana and
Rama or Ravana and Anjaneya are brought
into focus through the contrasts in colour.
While the Anjaneya ﬁgure is "coloured
green, Rama is blue and Ravana red: the
contrast when presented on the white
screen against the background of white
light falling on them is uniquely and
tellingly manifest.
Another characteristic feature of the
ﬁgures is their relative variations in
height. Dramatic propriety is achieved

by making certain ﬁgures look more
prominent than the others by their sheer
height and width. Thus, the ﬁgures of
Ravana, Keechaka, Bheema, Anjaneya and

Rama are larger than the other ﬁgures.
This visual establishment of the relative

supremacy of the ﬁgures is achieved as
soon as they are mounted on the screen.

The ﬁgures also change sizes through
quick change ofpuppets for dramatic
effect.

The dramatic nature of the characters is
intensiﬁed in the entrances and the
accompanying ‘entrance songs’. For
example, the character of Anjaneya always
enters the screen with a few acrobatic

feats. Similarly the ﬁgure ofJattivadu (a
boxing champion) in Keecba/ea Vadba
enters with great pomp and noise.
The battle scenes and ﬁghts (including
duels) in the Andhra puppet show are
very absorbing. The important episodes
centre round such ﬁghts so that they will
attract the attention of the audience. The
wordy duel, followed by a few exhanges
of blows with hands, then with bows and
arrows, is the usual order of the ﬁghts.
During the ﬁghts, the entire manipulation
style changes. In the climactic scenes of
the ﬁght, the puppet ﬁgures are no
longer manipulated by sticks. They are
not even manipulated by two different

people. Both the puppet ﬁgures are taken
by one manipulator and by thrusting one
on the other, by striking one ﬁgure
against the other, the simulation of a ﬁght
is achieved. This is further accentuated
by the background noise and the beating
of the rnridangam at its loudest.
T'olu Bornrnalatta is a composite art
containing all the ﬁne arts in it including
music, sculpture and painting. Its
dramatization of the narratives is often
rendered through music. Thus the
importance of music to a successful

presentation of a puppet show is
apparent: it is the ‘soul’ of the show. The
entrances, conversations, ﬁghts,

descriptions and even humorous
episodes come to life through
apprOpriate songs and poems, recited in

the proper raga.

NAGABHUSHAN SARMA

