Putul — An Exhibition of
Puppets
This exhibition of Indian puppetry ties
up with the largest international puppetry
festival organized in India in recent years:
the India International Puppetry Festival,

lOintly sponsored by the Indian Council
for Cultural Relations and Sangeet Natak
Akaderni 1-15 September 1990. Apart

from the present exhibition, a three-day
seminar/demonstration of puppetry has
. also been organised to mark the

international event.

The exhibition itself presented by
Sangeet Natak Akaderrri, Indian Council
for Cultural Relations and Crafts Museum

also be shows of Kathputli, T‘olu
Bommalatta and Beni Putul on the
prernrses.
The exhibits on diSplay from foreign
countries are ﬁne examples of puppets

and marionettes of diﬂerent forms and
types. From Mali there are ancient

puppets and masks, in sorrre cases over
200 years old. Water puppets and masks
rrranipulated by strings and sticks from
Vietnam are shown in the exhibition.
Tashkent Puppet Theatre from the USSR
has on display modern rod and glove
puppets. Romania will participate in the
exhibition with traditional ﬁgures like the
best lmown characters Vasilache and
Maricara Ontario Puppetry Association
and the Puppet Centre in Toronto has
contributed puppets and marionettes.

focuses on Indian puppetry. It puts on
Some other countries, who are

View marionettes, shadow puppets, rod
puppets and glove puppets representing
all the major Indian puppetry traditions,
some 300 objects in all. Also included is a
smaller section of fOreign puppets,
including the well-known Wayang Kulit
ofIndonesia. Thus the range of exhibits

from Chatar Badar, the puppets of Santhal
tribals to the contemporary puppets of

the Calcutta Puppet Theatre is indeed
wide.
Shadow puppetry, the oldest form of
puppetry, is represented here by the
Ravan Chhaya of Orissa, ’I‘ogalu

Gombeatta of Karnataka, 'I‘olpavakoothu
of Kerala and Tolu Bommalatta of Andhra
Pradesh.
Marionettes include the Kathputli of
Rajasthan, Sakhi Kundhei of Orissa,

T'ogalu Gornbeatta and Yakshagana
Gornbeatta of Karrrataka and Bommalatta
ofTamil Nadu. The rod and glove
sections include Danger Putul of west

Bengal, Kathi Kundhei of Orissa (rod
puppets), Beni Putul ofWest Bengal,
Pavakathakali of Kerala, and GOpileela

Kandhei of Orissa (glove puppets). Apart
from the traditions named here, the

exhibition includes an assortment of
Indian and other puppets, traditional and

contemporary, drawn from various
collections. Also on view are musrcal
instruments used in Indian puppetry,
posters of puppetry expositions and
books on puppetry.
_ ॰
Apart from the display, vrsrtors to the

exhibition would have an opportunity to
see puppets in their making. A srte has
been set apart at the venue of the
exhibition where traditional craftsmen

can be seen making the Rajasthan
Kathputli, Pavakathakali glove puppets of
Kerala, T‘ogalu Gombeatta shadow
puppets of Kamataka and the Beni

marionettes ofWest Bengal. There would

participating in the exhibition are
Madagascar, Sweden, Chile, Austria,
Switzerland, Brazil, Turkey, Inodnesia,
New Zealand, Japan, UK, Netherlands

and France.
The exhibition draws upon the Sangeet
Natak Akademi’s collection of traditional
puppets in the main. Important
contributions have also been made by the
Calcutta Puppet Theatre, including the
private collections of the late Madhulal
Master and Chitaprasad of Bombay, Crafts
Museum and the Indira Gandhi National
Centre for the Arts. It is hoped that this
ambitious undertaking, in which many
hands have joined, will afford a glimpse
of the fascinating world of puppetry, an
art that has entertained mankind
throughout the ages.
The exhibition is held at the Crafts
Museum through the kind cooperation of
Dr.Jyotindra Jain, Senior Director.
The exhibition has been designed and
mounted by Suresh Dutta and Rajat
Ganguly.

