’OOSI’ (The Needle)
3YNO P3 I 3
It is very difficult to give the synopsis of the play in the linguistic medium.
The whole play is a visual-metaphor, a satire on the social system.

The Sutradhar enters the stage with the actors. The actors plead with the
Sutradhar that the play should reach the audience. The Sutradhar replies
that any play derives its meaning only from the way the people understand
it. As such, it is not wrong if he expects the audience deserve his play. The
actors irriated by the polemic ,reply, attacks him and his shirt is torn off. The
Sutradhar feels embarrassed and he says he needs a needle to mend his shirt.
They realise suddenly that there is immense activity all around. Men are
swinging from stage left to right and from right to left taking stock of things
in a store. The actors run from stage left to right and from right to left along
with the swing begging those who are taking stock to give a needle. After
a little time, they oblige on condition that the needle should be returned
immediately after the job is over.
The Sutradhar while stitching his shirt, narrates a story connected with the
needle.
'

In a store, the workers are told that the officers would be coming to check
the things in the store. lmrnediately everything is set in order and they
patiently wait for the officers to ' come.

The officers do not come that day and waiting continues indefinitely. Waiting
itself becomes an immense activity. At last, three officers come and they
start their job methodically.
The officers look like machines. Every item is scrutinized. When they are
about to sign after stock-checking, they suddenly realise that the needle is
missing.
There is a feverish search for the needle. All those things that have been
arranged are thrown about everywhere. Cosmos is lead to chaos. The officers

thunder where is the needle?
An old box entered in the books as magic box is now opened. It looks like
Pandora’s box containing everything in the world. All the things come out.
The whole stage is scattered with things.
In the vigorous search, they destroy all the articles. Finally the needle is

discovered. They find it has no eye.

'

PLAY —— OO S I
DIRECTORS’ NOTE :
I am conducting a few experiments in theatre and the theme of any play
strikes me only as visuals. Then I try to put it in the linguistic medium.
Here in this play, I am experimenting a property stage. Property itself becomes
a set and it is also one of the characters of the play. Unlike in other plays,
the set is not stationary, but evolves gradually with the progress of the play.

