I have also tried to exploit the vertical space to give an extra dimension for
'
the whole concept.
l have tried here to express the utter futility of the bureaucratic system.

V. ARUMUGHAM : BIO-DATA
V. ARUMUGHAM, B. 1955
Graduated from School of Drama, Trichur, specialising in Direction. He
directed plays by G. Sankara Pillai and Moliere at the School. Since
graduation had been working with Koothu-p—pattarai in various capacities.
He has also been closely associated with production of new plays in traditional
Theru-k—koothu. He has conducted several workshops at various centres in
Tamil Nadu: has been on the faculty of the Summer Institute of Theatre
organised by Tamil University. He performed important tasks for the Ford
Foundation aided project on interaction between traditional forms and
contemporary theatre in Tamil. He developed a series of exercises for actor
training based on Theru-k-koothu. He has directed several plays. He was
Performer Troupe Leader of the Theru-k-koothu group at Festival of lndia,

France (1985) and Sweeden (1987),
Directed Bhagavadajjukiyam for Koothu—p-pattarai participating in the
Zonal Festival under the Sangeet, Nataka Academy Scheme for the year
1987-88; and it was performed at the Asian Festival of Theatre, Dance and
Martial Arts with International Seminar and Workshop at Calcutta.

Formed THALAl-K-KOL at Pondicherry 1989.
Written and Directed the play Karunchuzhi which participated in the South
Zone Theatre Festival under the Sangeet Nataka Academy for the year
1989—90 and it has been selected to represent the South Zone at the National
Theatre Festival.
Presently teaching at the School of Performing Arts.

Pondicherry University. - .
NOTE ON THE GROUP
THALAl-K-KO L
43-A, IV Cross, Tagore Nagar, Pondicherry - 605 008.

“Thalai-k—kol” is a theatre movement in Pondicherry founded in 1989 to
establish theatre awarne‘ss among the people. The young students of
Pondicherry University as well as those interested in creating a climate of
serious theatre in this region have come together in this venture.
This movement intends organising theatre festivals, seminars and workshops,
for which the response, as of now, appears to be overwhelming.

Our maiden performance ’Karunchuzhi’ made an instant impact all over the
country and it merited critical acclaim from theatre doyans like B .V. Karanth,
lndira Parthasarathy, Suresh Awasthi, Shyamanand Jalan, Narnichandra
Jain, Prof. Sriramulu and others.

This has given us renewed inspiration to perform better and we offer this
play ’Oosi’.
Produced under the Sangeet Nataka Acaderni scheme of assistance to young directors, 1992-93.

