S ES H SAKS HATKAR
Dr. Shubhankar Karmakar is a top-notcher heart surgeon.
Suddenly Dr. Karmakar became choosey and began to tend
only those who were sure to survive the operation. As a result.
some patients, who were denied surgery. died. Dr. Chowd hury,
associate of Dr. Karmakar, considered these deaths justifiable
for the renown and repute of the Cardiology Centre.
Dr. Karmakar received the highest National Honour
Padmabibhushan, he became the State Minister of Health.
These too Dr. Chowdhury considered welcome for the growth
of the Hospital.
Only one person — Mahasin. an engineer - escaped the fatal
black-list. His heart was operated on in Dehli by Dr. Chatterjee,
once a teacher of Shubhankar Karmakar. And Mahasin
survived. Could it be then possible that the other dead patients
too, it operated upon like Mahasin, might have survived
iikewise ? A young journalist Anirban Majurndar began his
probe into this mystery. Anirban wrote an article as well. He is
now a wreck, an alcoholic, with all the city Newspapers shut on
his face. Dr. Chowdhury found even this justified. Dr.
Chowdhury is an organiser ८ he is now a Special Secretary to
the State Minister of Health. And. of course, Dr. Karmakar is the
State Minister of Health. Perhaps he was unware if he had
crossed the thin line between compromise and crime.

Five years have passed. Dr. Karmakar is expecting a full
Ministership. Today a man unnamed and unknown has come
to meet him. This man is accompanied by Bina. a broken
woman. This man has come to tell the State Minister: Please
resign your Minister's/tip.
This Interview lasts a couple of hours.

Drama ८
Decor :
Set Making :
Music & Costume ८
Sound :
Lights :
रे
Make—up :
Stage Manager :
Cast :

Vladlen Dozortsev
Khaled Chowdhury
Manu Dutta
Swatilekha Sengupta
Hirnangshu Paul
Ashok Prarnanik
Ranjit Mitra / Sumoulindra Acharya
Debashish Chowdhury
Goutam Halder,
Debshankar Halder, Parthapratim Deb,
Rudraprasad Sengupta, Swatilekha Sengupta
Adaptation & Direction :
Rudraprasad Sengupta

