ol
ho
Sc
gh
Hi
a
rl
Ku
e
th
of
lf
ha
be
on
al
An Appe
The General Education Institute, Dadar
has been conducting since 1938 a High School
at Kurla—an under—developed Suburb of
Bombay, mostly populated by lower—middle
and working classes including the economi—
cally and socially backward communities.
At present the School has on its rolls 1150—
pupils—750 boys and about 400 girls who
receive education which qualifies them for
the S. S. C. Examination.
The G. E. Institute which conducts 10 such
High Schools including High School, Kurla in
and around Bombay has been fortunate
enough to have at its head Justice P. B.
Gajendragadkar, a judge of the Supreme
Court of India as its President and Shri R. G.
Gokhale of the Millowners Association, Shri N.
V. Modak and Shri W. P. Oka as its Vice—
Presidents.

The problem of accommodation for the
ever growing number of boys and girls seeking

at its new building for the Kurla High School
when she visited Kurla in March 1959. On
this special occasion the Vice—President Shri
Gokhale acquainted the illustrious visitor and
the gentry who accompanied her to the School

with the history of the Institute and the
educational work it has been doing in the
ﬁeld of education for well over 70 years.

In appreciation of the educational work
the Institute is doing in this backward and
neglected part of the city of Bombay the
Central Govt. has

further

encouraged

the

school to get a Recreation Hall-cum—Anditorium built for the school by sanctioning a
grant of Rs. 35,000/—- for this project. The
total costs of the Auditorium project are
estimated to be Rs. 90,000/—. The Hall will
provide a seating accommodation for about
600 people—a much needed urban amenity for
the school and the public alike. The Hall
is presently under

construction

and

if the

was laid in 1956 by Shri Shantilal Shah,
the then Minister of Law and Education and
the newly constructed building with only
6 class—rooms was declared open by Sheth
Lalchand Hirachand of the Premier Atomobiles,Kur1a. The costs of this ground floor
structure amount to Rs. 1,10,000/—.
The Institute had the signal honour
of welcoming Shrimati Indira Gandhi the

Balcony—which was originally proposed but
now dropped for want of funds—inside the
Hall could be added with the generous muniﬁcence of one who has a regard for the sacred
cause of education, it could still be possible
to provide a seating accommodation for 300
people more.
The school with its 24 classes is still
required to meet in two shifts in the newly
built ground ﬂoor structure and its 3 old
adjuncts—three improvised school buildings
partly rented and partly owned.
This earnest appeal is being issued to all
those philanthropic individuals and charitable
institutions to lend their hand to helping the
institute and the Kurla High School to
complete their school building project which
means the addition of balcony to the construction and erecting the ﬁrst and the second
storeys on the ground ﬂoor building recently
constructed. It is hoped and trusted that the
appeal will meet with a ready response ‘from
all those who have the well—being of the

then President of Indian National Congress

younger generations at heart.

admission to this school has deﬁed solution so
far. But thanks to the generous policy of the
State Govt. in sanctioning Aid to the school
in the form of loans and thanks to the public
of Kurla including the parents of the present
pupils and the past students who individually
and collectively came forward to help the
Institute solve the problem of accommodation

with their mite, the Institute felt encouraged
to launch upon a scheme to erect a suitable
building for the school which housed its
classes in old, scattered and rented buildings.

Thus the foundation of the

new building

*

