Anton Chekhov
1898 Stanislavasky produced The Seagull for
hisnewly founded Moscow Art Theatre and it was for him
that Chekhov wrote Unc/e Vanya (1900), Three Sisters
(1901) and The Cherry Orchard (1903). ln 1901

Chekhov married Olga Knipper, one of the Moscow
Art Theatre’s leading actresses. He died in 1904.
Chekhov is the most notable and celebrated 20th
century Russian dramatist in the west, his plays
helped establish psychological realism which was the
dominant note of his plays, although they also
showed symbolist, impressionist and even protoabsurdist traits. By fragmenting the well-made play,
scattering expOsition thoroughout, compressing,

internalizing and excising action, Chekhov created
the so called ’theatre of mood', of misdirection,

noneventfulness and partially stated meaning. A
physician by training, he was especially sensitive to

the individual's predisposition toward wastefullness
versus the conservationist potential of life. His plays
portray the constant attrition of daily life and the
waste, under the social conditions of old Russia, of

youthful energy and talent.

Chekhov’s background as a descendent of peasants
who had risen from the lower middle class to
Born 1860, in Tanganrog in South Russia.

After a

harsh childhood he went to Moscow in 1879 and
entered the medical faculty of the university
graduating in 1884.

During his university years he

supported his family by contributing stories and
sketches to magazines.

In 1885 he met Suvorin,

Editor of Novoye Vremya in St. Petersburg, who
encouraged him to write and in 1886 Chekhov
published a volume of his stories. In 1887 his first
full length play Ivanov was produced in Moscow.
For five years he lived in the country near Moscow,
practising medicine and writing many of his best
stories; but when his health began to fail he moved
to Crimea and after 1900 most of his life was spent
at Yalta where he met Tolstoy and Gorky. He wrote
his best known plays in the last years of his life; in

become a physician and then a celebrated writer,
active in the intellectual circles of his time, provided
variegated material for his works. And the
awareness that tuberculosis would cut short his life,
combined with the responsibility to support his large
family, produced a sense of duty, an obsession to
work, that caused him in his writings to cast
bemused eye on his listless and bored life.
Listlessness was common in the 18805 when

Chekhov was commencing his literary career,
because government repression prevented political
and social activism, and a torrid malaise afflicts his

beginnings as a writer of comic anecdotes,
endowed Chekhov with an almost clinical obiectivity,
a refusal to espouse causes or expound preiudices,
which has enabled critics to read him in many
different ways.

