The Director
In I978, under the auspices of the Union of Theatre
Activists of Russia he organised a theatre-laboratory
for the South Russian directors.
In I980 some of his students started an actor's
training course in the Russian Academy of theatrical
Art(GlTIS) in Moscow. He joined the Academy as a
Lecturer and also look admission in the post-graduate
course as a student. On completion of post-graduate
studies he became eligible to impart training to some
of the higher institutes of theatrical studies but
returned to Caucasus to continue his work. Soon
enough the State Dramatic Theatre invited him as its

director.
In I989, his production of ’Lower Depths' by Maxim
Gorky, with the leading artist of Russia, Aleksei
Astrenko in the cast, was invited to the international

symposium on ’Stanislavsky in the Changing World'
at Moscow, which achieved great acclaim from the
participants of the symposium as well as from the
critics. He was again invited to work at the Russian
Academy of theatrical Art(GlTIS) and within a year

he became the Dean of the faculty of actors. He
got completely involved in theatre— training and also
continued working in Moscow and overseas.
Valentin Teplyakov started his career as professional
actor at the age of seventeen. A year later he look

In the spring of I995, his production of Chekov's

admission in the acting faculty of the Higher School
of theatre of Academy of MaIy Theatre at Moscow.

Three Sisters’ in Buenos-Aires,

Argentina was

brought to the International Drama Festival Podium at
Moscow.

In the year of I973, after the completion of his
education in theatre, he went to Coucousus of the

Mr. Valentin Teplyakov, perceives this tour, at the

Nalchie Hill, the Capital of autonomous Republic of
Kalardino—Balkari and started working there. There
he created the company called Mo/oa’yo/hry Theatre

first meeting with a great cultural tradition and

(The Youth’s Theatre) where he worked both as actor

and director and also began to impart theatre
training. Very soon he got recognition from the
audience and started receiving invitations for various
festivals and competetions. The play ’Conversion'
(I977) directed by him

(based on the poems of

Pablo Neruda) was widely acclaimed in Moscow.

invitation of the National School of Drama, as his
believes in the fruitful creative contacts in the future
as a result of this.

