। am thankful
My first meeting with India

। humbly greet Ms. Rita Ganguly......

No, not the Indian tea... the meeting—the movie
”Awara”... the brilliant artist Ra] Kapoor... halfstarved childhood... the cheerful song ”Awara hun”...
my first meeting...

I am grateful...

The youth... the reproduction of paintings of Nikolai
Roerich... my second meeting... why India became
mother-country for the Russian artist 3... my second

to Mr. Jaywant and Ms. Swagata... They worked
patiently and gave me the opportunity to be heard
and understood...
। humbly greet Mr. Jaywant and Ms. Swagata...
I am grateful... to the Students of National School of

meeting. . . .

Drama, India... to these future artists. It was quite

The third meeting—KS. Stanislavsky ”The work of an
actor on himself”, the chapter, the radiation and the

difficult for them, but with amazing wisdom they
accepted my stern character and did their best so
that the play could take shape... May Good luck

beaming perception”... हैं why and from where this

never desert them...

chapter3.. my third meeting...

। humbly greet them...
I have something to say about A.P. Chekov... l have

genius.

Gad smiled on me and presented me with some
happiness... the happiness to be in the magic
country-India . . .

From Hotel Janpath, । everyday go to the school...

A.P. Chekhov, his play Ivanov- for the first time in

On the right there is A.C. Pushkin statue... I pray
and beg that he did not abandon me, well, here he

is standing proudly... holding his head high...

Hindi... New Auditorium of NSD— is being opened
with the Russian play which is staged by the Russian
director...

I am grateful ,'...

We are so far away and yet so close to each

something to say... But all । say would not express

what I feel... My plays... My love for him... He is a

to Prof. Ram Gopal Baiai, the person who is
infinitely and immeasurably in love with theatre... to
the person, very talented and fine, looking far

other... May we have enough strength to conquer
one another with kindness, patience and love.

But l shall go and carry my infinite love for you.

ahead, to the person involved in his cause. I am

grateful to Mr. Subba Rao and all others who

received me and saw me off, all those who helped
me without whose kindness and warmth it would
have been very difficult to work...

But I shall remain... My tears sweat and blood, part
of my soul and heart shall remain in you, with
you...and we shall definitely meet someday and if
not here... but, all the same, we shall meet and
smile to each other...

। humbly greet Prof. Bajai...

I, with enormous love and hearty gratitude, humbly

I am grateful. . . .

greet you.

to Madam Rita Ganguly who was present during all
my rehearsals... her home became a native home for
me... । lived and knew that any moment । could
knock... and the door would open for me ... I was
not alone...

Valentin Teplyakov
Dean, Faculty of Actors,

Russian Academy of Theatrical Arts(GlT|S)
Moscow, Russia

