DELHI N A T Y A S A N G H
० c o c n a u a o

DELHI NATYA SANGH,

an organisation primarily devoted to
promotion of theatre activity, was established in 1950 by a small band of
theatre enthusiasts. They had in view two distinct roles for the Sanghcoordination of theatre activity in the capital by aﬂiliating to it all the
groups in the ﬁeld and to establish an Academy for imparting instruction
and training in various branches of drama to youngmen and women. The
inauguration of Delhi Natya Sangh was performed by the Late President
Dr. B. V. Kesker was
Dr. Rajendra Prasad on the 1st September 1950.
He was succeeded by Gurmukh
the ﬁrst President of the Sangh.
Nihal Singh, Prof. Humayun Kabir and the late Begum Qudsia Zaidi.

The Sangh has stood up to the expectations of its founders. Since
n
1951 almost all important therate groups of the capital have kept afﬁliatio
es like
with the Sangh. The groups pertain to various regional languag

their number
Hindi, English, Panjabi. Bengali, Telugu and Kannada and
Sangh has been
presently stands at 18. To co-ordinate their activities, the
year. Prizes
organising Seminar, Competition and Festival of plays every
and best
have been distributed for the best productions, best acting
language theatre
stagecraft. In these competitions, apart from regional
American Theatre
groups, foreign groups like U. K. High Com ADC and
Thus the Sangh has become the rallying
Association have also taken part.
in the capital. Apart from
point of domestic and foreign theatre groups
programmes independently
the above, the Sangh has been sponsoring outside

' and in collaboration

with

other

organisations.

In 1953

the

Sangh

Festival followed by the ﬁrst
organised the Railway Centenary Cultural
by the Sangeet Natak
National Drama Festival in 1954 sponsored
all over India participated
Akademi. In this festival, theatre groups from

.
and it was the biggest venture undertaken by the Sangh

In January 1956,

Graham’s performances in
the Sangh helped in. organising Miss Martha
song recital by Talat Mahmud.
Delhi. In September, 1956 it organised a
shows by the Wayne State
In March 1958, it sponsored theatrical

