SYNOP Sl S
Scene 1: The Asrama of the Sage Kanva
King Dusyanta, out on a hunting expedition, comes in the vicinity of the asrarna
of the sage Kanva. He is about to shoot a deer belonging to the asrama, when he is
prevented by one of the hermits.
A little while later, Sakuntala and her two companions enter and go about their

business of watering the plants.
Sakuntala is attacked by a bee and the King, whose
admiration for her has already been aroused, comes to her rescue. In the course of
conversation he learns who Sakuntala is. As for himself, he tries to pass as an oﬁﬁcer
of King Dusyanta.
Suddenly, shouts in the distance proclaim that the penance grove has been disturbed by the King’s forces and that an elephant has run amok.
The young girls retreat
hastily towards the aérama, but not before Sakuntala has indicated that she too has been
attracted by the King.

Scene 2: In the Forest, near the King’s Camp
The Vidusaka enters, bewailing the rigours of the King’s hunting expedition. He
is a humorous character and a close companion of the King. He is aware of the spell
Sakuntala has cast on Dusyanta who soon enters and expresses his longing for his
beloved.
Hermits invite Dusyanta to the asrama and seek his help against demons which
have been trying to disturb the sacriﬁcial ceremonies. He is only too glad to accept this
invitation, but receives a message that his presence at the court has been requested

by the Queen Mother. He eventually seizes on the idea of sending the Vidﬁsaka back
on his behalf. The latter willingly agrees.
Afraid that his talkative companion may let, fall the news of this affair at the court,
Dusyanta pretends that all he had said about Sakuntala had been a mere jest. The
Vudﬁsaka, of course, is not taken in.
Scene 3: The Forest

राहु-जरायु-ज्ञा saws
3 ( है ३ / iv ८८

Immersed in thoughts of his beloved, Dusyanta wanders by the banks of the
Malini. He espies her lying in a love-lorn condition, attended by her companions. She
inscribes a love-letter on a lotus-leaf and reads it when Dusyanta reveals himself.
Circumspectly, the girls leave the lovers alone.
Dusyanta woos Sakuntala and suggests they be married in the Gandharva form of
of
ch
roa
app
the
of
ned
war
are
rs
love
the
n
whe
her
e
rac
emb
to
ut
abo
is
He
wedlock.

