The Good Fight
Egyptian-American journalist Mona Eltahawy on how she became a feminist
and why men have a role to playin the feminist struggle

MonaEltahawy (leﬂ); with Germaine Greer (left) and Shobhaa De duringher session

icy magazine, called Why Do They Hate Us?.
where she highlighted how deeply misogyny had seeped ।nto the Middle East culture.
IT WAS living in Saudi Arabia that made
She has been repeatedly accused of being
Mona Eltahawy a feminist. Completelycov"lslarnophobic". particularly for her objec—
ered up and wearing a hijab. the teeriaged
tionsto the niqab. winch many MiddleeastEltahawy was groped multiple times while ern feminists have reclaimed as an element
on the Haj. She had one hand outon the Kaba
of choice. Eltahawy disagrees. “‘Choice' is a
the holiest site in lslarn. when she felt the
veryloaded word. These arguments that
man behind her touch her. "I was 15 and in wearing a face veil or headscarf is a choice
Mecca which is Islam‘s holiest city." she reare allpart of the modestyculture. which excalls.“I couldn't express what l hadjust expe—
istsin lndia too. and which unfairly puts the
rienced. I felt so violated andashamed,“ says burden of covering up on women. it’s very
Eltahawy. it didn't end there; as she went
similar to the “purity culture" which exists
ahead,a Saudi policeman reached out and
in the UK where young girls promise their
squeezed her breast
fathers that they will remain virgins until
That period was a turning point for her.
they ma rry."
says Eltahawy. who wasin conversationwith
Fem inism's ﬁght is against the “trifecta of
Germaine Greerand Sliobhaa De at the Tata
state, street and home". she says. Eltahawy
Literature Live! Festival on Saturday on
herself was physicallyand sexually assaulted
whether women will always be the second
by the Egyptian police when shewas reportsex. The 48-year—old
ing on the Egyptian uprisEgyptian-Americanjour—
we have the
ing from Tahrir Square in
nalist recalled what a
Mubarak in the
Cairo. Both her wrists and
ghock it was to move to
state. the Mubarak
one hand were brokenand
audi Arabia where
she was held for 12 hours
P0 OJA P| LLA|

Vasan t Pm bIru

women are in fact thesec-

in the StreEtsland

without medical care. She

ond sex.after having lived

the Mub3'3 kI" the

was released onlyafter she

in theUnited Kingdom for

bedroom. When the
day ends. the first
two will go home, but

secretly senta tweetabout

years.She herselfwas only
her illegal incarceration.
15 and recalls how her
She says. “During the revo—
rnother. who had been her
what about the last
lution in Egypt. men and
father’s equal inevery way
प
women came and fought
until then. felt like some—
one '
together. But once it was
body had cut off her legs.
MONA ELTAHAWY
over,women were back to
"My parents had studied
being
oppressed."
together and worked to—
Eltahawy recalls how
gether. Now, it was my father who took us many ofthe women revolutionaries were vieverywhere and my mother. who missed her olated and humiliated bya virginity test and
independence and rriobility. felt that she had says that to this day there has been no pubbeen disabled." says the 48—year-old writer. lic outcry on the issue. “We have the
who believes that misogyny is so ingrained
Mubarak in the state. the Mubarak in the
in Saudi Arabian society. that women only streets and the Mubarak in the bedroom.
have two choices — go mad or becomea ferri- When the day ends. the first two will go
inist She picked the latter.
home. but what about the last one? Itis a fal—
Her lnd ia visi t i 5part of Eltahawy's ongo— lacy that men who are revolutionaries and
ing global tour,whidr sheis doing to promote activists are feministsby default." she said.
her book Headscarves and Hymens: Why the
Eltahawy asserts. however. that men do
Middle East Needs a Sexual Revolution. have a role to play in the feminist struggle.
Coming to India was very important to her. "Men are often trapped by these notions of
she says.because this is the ﬁrstcountry from masculinity. where they have to be the
the global south whereshe is promoting her providers andprotectors. Feminism willdebook. “We have a lot in common. Weunder- stroy these strict notions of what is rnascu—
stand what it is like to be women of colour. line and what is feminine and will liberate
because the issuesofrace and religion inter— men from their restricted roles. There are
sect with our issues as women." she says.
rnairy men who are supportive and who
Eltahawy has been criticised much for her won't hurt women, but they need to go be—
radical views with many Middle Eastern yond that. They need to challenge the sysfeminists taking issue with what theysee as tem itself. from which they have derived all
her “lslamophobia”. Therewas severe back- their power and privilege. in order to bring
lash against her coverstory for a foreign pol— equality and liberation forall." she said.

