The Translation of the Songs
It would not be an exaggeration to say that nothing
could be easier than translating a song from
one Indian language to another if its music belonged
to the classical world. All of our languages practise
a common prosody and rhythmic pattern. In the
songs of Yakshagana I discovered a variety of

Chhandas and talas I had known in Braj and Awadhi
works of Hindi literature. Some of these are practised
in modern writing too. Yet the modern literary idiom
suffers from one disadvantage. It places its prepositions apart from the objects they govern and thus

hinders smooth musical glides

from

syllable

to

syllable.

This was one reason I chose Braj and Awadhi for
several of the songs in this Yakshagana.

Some I did

attempt in the good old Khari-boli for the sake of that
small section of the Delhi audience which is not well
acquainted with classical Hindi writing. I am told the
original too employs various styles of Kannada
chronologically separated from one other sometimes
by centuries.
Yakshagana Abhinaya synchronises with words.
Since it was the dance that dictated the tune, the translator was bound to follow all dance and music movements step by step and beat by beat . It did frustrate
me at times to be so tied down and I wished I had the
freedom to write a new song within the framework of
the original meaning and rhythm offering a change here
and there in the all too rigidly predetermined dance

movements of the original. That freedom perhaps
would be available to someone who tries a completely
new Yakshagana in Hindi as the next step after the
present experiment in a mere translation.

The guidance B.V. Karanth gave me in the cornprehension of the meaning and beat was a

experience.

rewarding

It revealed to me the absolutely perfect

synthesis of word and

music in Yakshagana and

helped open many forgotten chambers in my musical
ear already corrupted by the singsongness of lyrics

written in Hindi in recent times.

: Raghuvir Sahai

