UDAY SHANKAR INDIA‘CULTURE CENTRE _
Presents

MAHAMANAV
Multidimensional Dance Drama on Lord Buddha
Produced and Directed

by

AMALA SHANKAR
Music : Dipak Chowdhury

SYNOPSIS :
Queen Mayadevi dreams of a White Elephant signifying the birth of the Buddha under a Sal tree m the grove at Lumbini. At the royal festival—Asita,
the great sage heralds : God is reborn to save mankind from destruction. But sadly Queen Mayadevi dies. Siddhartha grows to manhood and
completes education. The episode of the wounded swan and quarrel with Devdutta reveals the compassionate streak in Siddhartha. Soon he takes
Yashodhara as his bride. Another significant incident depicted is Siddhartha riding with Channa through the city and seeing a sick person, an old
man, a funeral procession and a holy—man. Yashodhara has a frightful dream in which a voice cries "THE TIME lS COME". “This is the night,
choose thou the way of greatness or the way of God , to reign as king of kings or wander along . " “ Siddhartha makes this choice है" l shall seek the
Truth for all men 's sake. Siddhartha takes leave from Channa and wanders alone through villages and forests--meets ascetices—and realises
salvation does not lie in self-modification. Siddhartha rneditates in the forest of Gaya to achieve Self-Knowledge. Sujata, a village girl, seeing
Siddhartha in meditation and golden light emanating from him, offers food. Siddhartha takes food from her, sits under the Bodhi tree beneath
whose leaves it was ordained that truth should come to him. While so, Mara the Prince of Darkness. commands all his evil powers to distract his
mind from meditation.
When nothing moved the Master‘s mind, Kama waved his magic bow and lo : there came a snake in the guise of sweet Yashodhara. But
Siddhartha heeded not, sitting serene with perfect virtue.

The aching pursuit of search ends, and life glides effortlessly to a nameless quiet, to nameless joy, to sinless stirrless rest—the change which
never changes—NIRVANA :
Participants

AMALA SHANKAR
with

Urmimala Sarkar
Mohua Chakravorty
Mita Mitra
Kasturi Chakravorty

Sanchita Choudhury
Am rapali Basu
Aditi Sinha
Manashi Acharya

Rini Dasgupta
Papiya Roy
Mousree Sinha

Debabrata Banerjee
Tapas Mukherjee
Subrata Mukherjee
Nihar Chakravorty

Sibu Saha
Sankar Chakravorty
Paritosh Mondal
Partha Pratirn Chakravorty ‘

