THE PLAYWRI GHT

of history. Presented at the Piccolo Teatro
in Milan it was an immense success to which

Dario F0

The son of a railway worker, Dario F0 was
born in 1926 near the Lago Maggiore in
Northern Italy. He grew up in a village
community that included glass-blowers and

the participation of the great French mime,

Jacques Lecoq, from whom Fo learned much,
was an important contribution. This mixture

of spectacle, mime and social comment was

smugglers, where there was a strong-tradition

of popular narrative-much of it humorously
subversive of authority-fed by travelling
stroy-tellers and puppeteers. Gifted artistically, he studied architecture at Milan at

the art-school attached to the Brera Gallery;
but the theatre drew him strongly-first as
a set-designer and then as a performer. His

career began in revue which was spectacular
escapist entertainment of post-war Italy with
girls and comics (some very brilliant like

highly successful but made the authorities
nervous; the police were frequently present
at performances, following the scripts with
pocket torches to ensure that there were

no departures from the officially approved
text. F0 grew in stature and virtuosity as
actor and comic, exploiting his extraordinary
range of gesture, movement and facial
expression, his variety of voices and accents,

and his skill as a story—teller. It was the
misfortune of Italian cinema that it was unable

Toto, whom F0 greatly admired) and

to exploit his talents. There were difficulties

glamorous chanteuses .

in finding suitable scripts and, on set, his

It was a genre

favoured by politicians of the ruling Christain
Democrat party;girls’ legs were preferable
to the social preoccupations of contemporary

Italian cinema. In revue Fo began to make

his mark as an extraordinarily original comic
and mime. On radio he built a reputation
with his monologues as Poer Nano-the poor
sirnpleton who, in telling Bible stories, for

vitality and spontaneity were denied the

space and freedom that the theatre provided.
But what Fo did take away from film was
an understanding of how montage gave pace
to narrative.

During sixties Fo had become interested

married Franca Rame, a striking and talented

in material set in or drawn from the Middle
Ages. He had begun ’to look at the present
with the instruments of history and culture
in order to judge it better. He invited the
public to use these instruments by writing

example, gets things wrong, preferring Cain
to the insufferable prig, Abel.

In 1954 he

actress, who came from a family of travelling

an ambitious piece, Isabella, tre caravelle e

players and had made her first stage
appearance when she was eight days old.

um cacciaballe (Isabella, Three Caravels and
a Wild-Goose Chaser), in which Columbus—

Together they embarked on a highly

that schoolbook hero-is portrayed as the
upwards striving intellectual who loses out
in the game of high politics. For Po the

successful series of productions.
In the fifties the right-wing clerical
Christian Democrat government had imposed
a tight ccnsorship on film, theatre and

broadcasting. Fo took advantage of a slight
relaxation in censorship to mount an ’anti-

revue’, Il dito nell’ occhio (One in the Eye):
His aim was clear-to attack those myths in
Italian Democracy had preserved,’ ll dito

nell’occhio ’one in the eye’ for official versions

most important result was probably his
collaboration with a group of left-wing
musicians who had become interested in
the political potential of popular songs. Their
work appealed to him because he was himself
’interested above all in a past attached to
the roots of the people... and the concept
of ”the new in the traditional”.

