In 1967 he put on his last production

too locked in the mythology of the Resistance,

for the bourgeois theatre, La sigrzora non e
da buttare (The Lady’s Not For Discarding),

too inflexible and increasingly conservative.
In Morte acciden tale di un’ (znarchico (Accidential

in which a circus was made the vehicle for
an attack on the United States and capitalist
society in gerenal. By now it was becoming

Death of an Anarchist) Fo produced a piece
in which his skill at writing farce and his

more and more difficult to act in a theatre
where everything down to the subdivision

of the seating...mirrored the class divisions.
The choice for an intellctual’, F0 concluded,

’was to leave his gilded ghetto and put
himself at the disposal of the movement.’
The company with which the Fo’s
confronted this task was the cooperative
Nuova Scena-an attempt to dispense with
the traditional roles in a stage company
and to make decision-making collective. It
was, Fo said in retrospect, a utopian project
in which individual talents and capabilities

were sacrificed to egalitarian principles.
Nuova Scena did not last long-it was
torn apart by political arguments, by
arguments over the relationship of art to
society and politics, and by questions of

gifts as a clown were put brilliantly at the
service of his politics, playing on the tension
between the real death of a prisoner and
the farcical inventions advanced by the
authorities to explain it. It is estimated

that in four years the piece was seen by a
million people, many of whom took part
in fierce debates after the performance. Fo
had succeeded in his aim of making of the
theatre ’a great machine which makes people
laugh at dramatic things... In the laughter
there remains a sediment of anger.’ So no
easy catharsis. There followed a period in
which F0 was deeply engaged politically-

both through his writings and through his
involvement with Franca Rame, who was

the main mover of the project-in Red Aid,

which collected funds and comforts for Italian
political prisoners detained in harsh
conditions.

His writing dealt with the

organisation.

Palestinian struggle, with Chile, with the

When Nuova Scena split in 1970 it came
hard on the heels of mounting polernics in

methods of the Italian police. In the spring
of 1973 Franca Rame was kidnapped from

the Communist press. Looking back, Franca

her home in Milan by a Fascist gang, gravely

Rame has admitted that she and Dario Po

assaulted and left bleeding in the street.
Fo himselt later that year was arrested and

were perhaps sectarian and sometimes

mistaken but that they had to break with
the Communist culture organisations if they
wished to progress. The result was La
Cornune, a theatre company with its
headquarters in Milan. The Fo’s were now
politically linked to the new Left, which
found the Communist Party too authoritarian,

held in prison in Sardinia for refusing to
allow police to be present at rehearsals.
Demonstrations and protests ensured his
release. Dario Fo had, as his lawyer said,

for years no longer been only an actor but
a political figure whom the state powers
would use any weapon to silence.

