MOVEMENT INSTRUCTOR

Suresh Shetty
He has been graduated from National
School of Drama in 1982, with specialisation
in Acting. Till then he has developed a
detail method of expression through bodylanguage. He also acted in major roles in

many of the National School of Drama
Repertory company productions some of
which are Ascent of Fujiyama, Andhayug
and Yamgatha among others. In the year
1992,

LIGHT DESIGNER

Ashok S agar Bhagat

A graduate of National school of Drama
in the year 1979, has contributed to the
Chiaroscuro of various performances in the
last two decades. Apart from the numerous
workshops in all over the country he has
taught light design also in National School

of Drama and Bhartendu Natya Academy.
His designs for productions like Hamlet,
Sea-gull, Wild-duck, Round head peak head,

he visited France to study modern

Macro-million, Ashad ka ek din and Einstein

techiniques of movement and mime in Ecole

are some of the major examples of his
excellence. He has also designed lights for

du mime du Paris under a scholarship of
French Government. He was one of the

main dancer in Kronos, a movement
production of the Greek Myth taking

important productions of almost all
outstanding directors of Delhi and other places.
One of his most important work is the design

inspiration from various genres and styles

of lights and Mannequins for Rangyatra-

of dances and involving dancers from various
parts of the world, which was choreographed

His design works for the Festival of SAARC

the exhibition on the Visual history of N .S.D.

puppets and other elements of visual theatre.

countries, Merce Cunnigham ballet and Korean
National Circus gave him a world-wide
reputation. On various occassions he has
travelled to different corners of the Globe-

In this domain, his cont/ribution in a number

as Nepal, U.S.A., Canada, Japan, Germany,

of Dadi Padumjee’s work is quite memorable.
He is the teacher of movement in National

Mauritius, China and Thailand. His in-depth
knowledge of theatre technology has provided

School of Drama for past five years. In
this production he has not choreographed
in the usual sense but trained the whole
cast to develop a personal but communicative

the ample use of modern techniques in the
lighting and hoistening system of N.S.D.
Auditorium and coming up Desraj Auditorium. The light design of this producton
is one more example of his fertile mind.

by Andrien Bel, a noted name in modern

dancing. Shri Shetty has also done a lot of
experimental work with human body,

b od y- ki ne sth e ti c s .

