कि
farcical complication for the hero keeps

up in a hotel bedroom. he emerged—in the

recognising the players in their new guises.

tradition of strolling companies like the one
headed by Franca Rame’s parents—with a

The social provenance of the characters is
also unusual. The young men in what one
might call their ’real life’ sequences—for the
bulk of the play is a dream—are youths from
the sub-proletariat who recall the wide boys '
Pasolini describes in his novels set in the

working-class suburbs of Rome. Their butt
is Lofty, a simple young man who describes
himself as ’the Rigoletto of the poor’—as, in

loose sketch to be shaped during rehearsals,
which Fo has always demanded should last
six or seven weeks during which the gags,
the business and the text are polished and
tested. Even then there is no guarantee that
the text will not be altered; for to F0 a play
is something that is subject to development,

to adaptation to changing circumstances. F0
and Rame were now securely established

fact, a giullare, the innocent who by his literal

both as actors and as personalities in the
public eye. Their success in coonventional

reading of situations reveals them in all

theatre was confirmed by a series of pieces

their absurdity. Thus, in trying to claim a

which exploited a mixture of comedy, music

disability pension, he finds that he is

and farcical plots in which Fo would, for
instance, double as an absent-minded priest
and a bandit. The social references were
there—Fo and Rame were now both close to

registered as a dog and to circumvent the
intricacies of Italian bureaucracy must submit

to being put in a kennel. But the political
content is limited to the exposure of civil
service absurdities or the pornposity of a
ministerial visit to a provincial town—a study

of a venal audiences of the fifties.
Fo wrote the play in twenty days shut

the Communist Party and acutely aware of
the political tensions in society—and the public
readily picked them up. In a period which
saw widespread industrial unrest culminating
in the general strike of 1960 their material

caused the authorities in Milan to threaten
to ban performances.

