owned शि" Farsis and at times By Guja rat is,

companies, he explained, were very strict

invariably had Muslim directors, pro~
ducers and even actors and singers. This

with their employees and actors were not
allowed to gamble or visit homes of

was true of ﬁlms too.

Later, they were

dancing girls.

What is more, when they:

were allowed to go out, they were always;

rep-laced by members of other communitw
ies who also served on a salary or contract
basis and received as much as Rs. 886

chaperoned in order to prevent thenr
from getting into trouble. All thiswas

per month. The salaries varied from
Rs. 10 to Rs. 800 and among the best

done in order to uphold the company’s
good name, for if an actor was iound do~
ing anything wrong it was not he but

paid Were the hero, the comedian, the
music director, the heroine, in later years,

and the director. Playwrights also work«
ed on a salary basis and were paid at least
Rs. 300 per month, plus board and lodgd
ing. P The director or producer of the
company usually told them what sort of
theme or plot he wanted and the play»wrights were given three or four months
to write a play.

In some companies there

—was:a story department which had four or
ﬁve writers who wrote a play on a given
theme which was then given the ﬁnishing
touches by the chief playwright. At times
the junior writers were given an outline
and asked to do the rest.

the company that lost its reputation. ll”
an. actor got into trouble despite all this
he was punished. He n as fined, scolded
before the entire company or even dis»
missed.

Though the routine for the employees
was rigorous, the companies took good
care of them. All the companies had

separate kitchens for Hindus and Muslims
and retained a doctor who received a
salary of Rs. 50 per month. What is
more, the companies also maintained tent
beds in a local hospital for any of its

employees who

might

need hospital-

isation.

Champa Lal, who was a member of’ the
Corinthian Company for several decades,
recalled that each company had about
150-200 members and that they all lived a
very regulated life. All of them, regardless of their age or position in the cornpany, had to have breakfast at 8 am,

then go for rehearsals that lasted from 10
in the morning to 1 pm. After this they
had lunch break up to 4 pm. which was
followed by rehearsals with the dance
master till 6 pm. Dinner was at 7 after
which everyone went for make-up. At
8.30 pm. attendance was marked again
and those not required for the evening
performance, which began at 9 and went
on till 2 or 3, went back to their rooms

which were behind the theatre.

The

Rehearsals for any play lasted

for as

long as six months at the end of which
every member of the company knew every
word of the script.

Talking

about

himself,

Champa Lal

said that when he was ten years old his
uncle, who was a dress master in the
Corinthian Company, took him to Calcutta and put him in the company’s music

class. After a while he was given an
audition along with several others. Those
found to have a good voice as well as the
capacity

to remember countless

songs

were taken, for in those days every play
had at least 20 songs. In the years that
followed he was taught, along with the
others, diction, movement, action and

