surgical insirzrment‘s so thar‘ today, even
lhough he had no formal schooling he
could read and speak English, lirdu,
Hindi, Gujarati and Bengali ﬂuenriy-

Whariis more. he can periorm a ear-My

fore audiences numbering between 1,000
and 2,08%. The gpriee of tickets ranged
from ﬁbre ar‘snes क्या ﬁve rupees. Passes

of eornplicased movemenls such as raising
one eye brow or boil}. or heaving his elves;

were given so go testament ofﬁcials and

at a momenr’s notice.

married so rm intain good relations.

in the early

days Farsi iheairre like

other theatresr had small boys '10 pl 13;
female roles. Then. in l922 women 5.3er red
joining the companies Ac ﬁrs: they were
usually plrosrihues who wanted 30 change
lheir life style but in ialer year :5 girls from
better homes came forward lo join the

ihe police will: when; the companies

Production sets, a recording to Chasnpa
rival, were elaborale and expensive.

N0

symbolism was allow" ed: a for est had to
be like aforesr, a galacehad 10 heiikea

palace and murders had to he shown as
rmlistiealiy as possible. 'वे he result was
that when ﬁlms and italic-ks eame, the

very well

managements found that ﬁlms were a bet—

looked after and those who rose to be
heroines were given homes and even
horse'drawn carriages of their own, in
addition to high salaries. The aclresses

ter commercial proposition. The ndieaces
also ९ found ﬁlms more interesting and

profession. They were ail

realistic, so by E947 ﬁre Farsi rheaire. had

beeojne almost nonexistent.

led a strictly regulated life. They lived
separately from the rest of the company
under the direct charge of the manager
and were allowed to meet the res: ofshe

है
raiders
theme
how
Chaiihpe Lei readied
went a change from she rteli‘giohsﬁ and
she srsyrhologiml so the nationalistic in

This was

she early years of 311:? century. In the
play Dhamm 'हाँ' आत्मा she playwright using
a mythological heckgreund depicted ali
lhe wrongs {he English were doing by

company only as rehearsals.

done in order to avoid scandals and pre—
serve the prestige ofthe company.

Talking about the rhealr’e itself, Champa
Lal said that in the early years of
—
the 20th century the Corinthian Corn

' 'रि

in 111845111: money, (]:11111.31311 Lal said that
plays were performed every evening be—

pany and others used to have a ewe—hour
drama interposed with a silem film.
Usually, the evening performance r
at 9 pm. with four or ﬁve scenes from a
play, followed by a bit of ﬁlm 30 give she
actors a break. This system was however
stopped in 19 l l by which time the acrors
were able to do a play coniirruously.

Contending that the Farsi theatre had
no impact on modern Indian theatre
because its owners were only interested

symbolically showing meal as the big
br‘oiher harassing she srrral! ३ one, .he

Alfred Company produced the phiy bus
on the very ﬁrst night she Brilish closed

down the company.

Unda nailed, the

management, a while later; formed the

New Alfred Company, with ﬁre same
members.

Today, sadly enough she Pars i lheaire
exists only at the Desi Naiak Sarmé in
Girgaum, Bombay, where audiences, as

in the old days, can still regularly see she
old plays done in the same elaborate
manner a i ’9 pm.

