With the emergence of drama in Garhwali, folk tradition began to weaken. Lately:
purely f'olk spectacles have been giving way to Ramlila performances and even to
conventional theatrical performances with mythological motif, such as, Shrikrishnavatar,
Sa/yavadz' Haris/zchandra, Danbir Kama and Dharmaraj Titd/zishtlzira.
The trend ﬁrst beCame
clearly marked in the early thirties. The Ramlila was staged in winter season, dramas
in the summer. The time for f'olk dancing was then shifted to the spring season.
The staging of 'Rarrulila‘ as also of Hindi dramas is even now a ’Vogue‘ in Garhwal.
The play may start at l0 pm. and the last scene may then be enacted at about
5 a.m. so that the spectators from neighbouring villages can 'go home in daylight. The
play is expanded by dances, songs and ‘what not’ being introduced into it.
The ﬁrst Garhwali plavs, namely, Prahlaa' Natak and jayavijay came from Bhawani
Dutt Thapaliyal. Of these 1"rahlad Nata/c achieved a certain measure of'popularity. The
next playwright worth mentioning af'ter Bhawani Dutt Thapaliyal is Bhagwati Prasad

R. P. Dhyhani, Pareshwar Gaur, Iza Bela and
Kamla Bisht in Aunsi/(i Haat, staged in Delhi
in 1969 and repeated in 1970,

I

. Vijay Ram Juyal, Chintamani Barthwal and
Sharda Negi in Tine/Iii, staged in Delhi in
1976 and repeated on May 13, 1975.

Panthri, who wrote a number of plays His Adhah Palm: and Bhootuki Kilo/z, particularly,

were widely appreciated.

Most this plays had social

of the hill people during the

freedom

themes and reﬂected the mood

movement. However

the plays thus far

had

not become set in technique and did not therefore contribute greatly to the modern
theatre. They did nevertheless exert a tremendous inﬂuence on younger writers, namely,
Jeet Singh Negi (Bharz' Blzool, Maletha ki K001), Buddhi Vallabh Bahuguna (Danda ki Ayer,
Pak/za-Ghaseri), Pareshwar Gaur (Aunsi ki Raat, Gawai, Chollzi), Dinesh ‘Pahari’ ( junkhyali
Raat), Sudama Prasad ‘Premi’ (Kanya Dan), Keshav Dhyani (Malhu S'aukar, Kakhi Naak
Na [fa/chi .S'oonu Na) and Chintamani Barthwal (Tinchri). 1 The staging of Bhari Bhool,
The list here does not include the names of those playwrights whose scripts are yet to be staged.
play of
Such playwrights include Bhagavati Prasad Chandola (Aaj Alasa L'hllari Deva : perhaps the ﬁrst one-act
l.

Garhwali), Damodar

Prasad Thapaliyal (Mana/r/Ii, Aunsi ki Heat),

Dr. Govind

Chatak (Jangall Pllaol: a

