exposes him but very mildly. knowing
perhaps that the next generation only
would be able to improve the plight of
thevillages. Her conviction is that 'village
development’ is not a concept for discussion alone and even it it is, it is to be

achieved through hard labour only. That
is why the womenfolk of the village have
pledged not to succumb to the allurements
of city life but to stay in the village and
bring up and educate their children there
itself; They will inculcate ln‘their children
a sense of belonging so that they do not

end up in two minds about the problems
of village development like Kundan, Nain

Singh, Vidya Sagar, Pratap, dhalsa Ram,
Arddha-Grameshwar

is

a village

study

given the shape of a powerful drama.
The playwright's concern seems to highlight the attitudinal behaviour of the
inhabitants of a sample village in Garhwal
hills. The plight of the villagers. the
approach towards development of the
village of those villagers who are in jobs
outside Garhwal, and the Government
agencies set-up to improve the conditions

Garib, etc. (alIvarddha-grameshwars).

Dl R E CT 0R 'S N OTE

there, all contribute to make the piay an

In Arddha - Grameshwar the ' playwright
juxtaposes the pretentious concern of the
white collar (or the White-pyjama, as one
of the. characters calls them?) and the

effective instrument of arousing interest

high-brow city-dwellers for the

in

people that concern themselves with

their village and' the genuine ' efforts of

improvement of the present-day life in

the womenfolk living in the Village, guided
by their practical approach to the peculiar

villages.

Whether it is Kundan, a typist in Dethi. or
Satyanarayan. an ofﬁcer in Lucknow. or
Vidyasagar, a
professor of Human
GeOQraphy in the University of Delhi or
Nain Singh, an editor in Delhi—every one
of them is honestly engaged in the ‘ldea
of Village Reconstruction’ but their approach towards the realities of a villager's
life is colqured by the professions they
are in. The permanent residents of the
village know their worth and perhaps the

ladies know it better.

It is

rather the

uplift of

problems of their region. In the process «
he picks up the comic poSsibilities and
capitalizes on them with immense originality through verbal and physical devices.
But behind every slapstick device including
the occasional gibberish and seemingly
preposterous situation. there is invariably
an Idea, a purpose or even a protest that

provokes thought and discussion. It is
only in tune with the playwright's intent
that the city-dwellers, for the most part
are presented as near caricatures while
those living in the village, particularly the

ladies who are really doing some good to

womenfolk, are

the village by organizing themselves into
an active group. the ‘Mahila Sabha’.

realistic tones. Comedy bordering on
farce provides the basic structure of the
play. It is the playwright’s sense of proportion which prevents it from drifting

JKundan, who habitually talks of village

portrayed

in

sensitive

introducing

towards crude melodrama on one extreme

bureaucracy in the village. On the other
hand it is he who takes away one or the
other person from the village every year to
,Delhi and thus helps in leaving the village
in a pitiable condition. His Wife, Sumati,

and purely didactic piece on the other.
The judicious use of folk elements helps
to conjure up the atmOSphere of the
Garhwal region, which is the locale of the
play.
'
-— M. N. K.

improvement.

believes

in

