24

March 1996

The journey ofan Actor: DARIO FO'S
'I‘HE BIRTH OF THE IONGLELIR
and MAKARAND DESHPANDE’S
DIG DIG DHA...
The journey of an actor unfolds at two
levels; One is at the level in which he had
moved professionally
from one project
to another, one medium to another, one

SH SH
VIDYARTHI
A graduate of the National School of Drama,
Shri Ashish Vidyarthi has moved to Films
and TV serials after an active stint on the
Delhi stage. He was associated with Act
One, a well known theatre group in Delhi
and played lead roles in several of its
productions. In the year 1994, Shri
Vidyarthi received the National Award as
Best Supporting Actorfor his performance
in thefilm Drohkal directed by Govind
Nihlani. He is currently acting in a number
of TV Serials. Though he has presently
moved tofilms, Shri Vidyarthi continues to
be active in theatre.

director to another and one character to
another. The other level unfolds as an
inward journey, wherein the actor

journeys from one stage of mental
achievement to the next area or level of
consciousness, and vice-versa. Having set
out on my journey first in theatre and
presently working in television and films,
I have moved physically from Delhi to
Bombay; from performing in front of an
audience of 50—350 to an audience of
say a couple of millions! This jump in
audience reach has not necessarily meant
a leap in my capabilities as an actor, but
it has ensured that I can afford a better
life style for my family and myself in a
fiercely materialistic world. However, my
performance tonight is a journey of the
other kind, the inward journey by

speaking the original words of two actorwriters, ——Makarand Deshpande and

Dario—Po. One is a contemporary
philosopher thinker of the 1990’s living
in Bombay, the other was a ”political
thinker” living in Milan (Italy) of 1970.
Different decades, different realms of
._,.
j . ..._._._.__........ M..."— ......_.....-....

फि.. J

thought presented to you tonight by an
actor who attempts to bare himself in free
verse, dance and rhythm.
Ashish Vidyarthi

