RO H INI B HATE
Akademi Fellow

Born in 1924 in Patna, Shrimati Rohini Bhate is among the seniormost Kathak exponents ofIndia. She initially
learned Bharatanatyam under Guru Parvati Kumar, and later specialized in Kathak under the guidance ofPandit
Lacchu Maharaj and Pandit Mohan Rao Kallianpurkar. She also acquired proﬁciency in Hindustani vocal music as a
student ofKeshavrao Bhole and Vasantrao Deshpande.

In 1946, Shrimati Rohini Bhate took her Bachelor ’s degree at Fergusson College, I’une, where she read Marathi
and Sanskrit. She established the Nrityahharati Kathak Dance Academy at Pune in 1947. Here, she has trained
generations ofdancers and teachers, who are engaged in promotion ofKathak within and outside India.
A dancer; teacher; and scholar par excellence, Shrimati Rohini Bhate has gained wide respect in the ﬁeld ofdance. She
has performed extensively ﬁrrﬁve decades. W/ith her deep understanding ofthe structure and aesthetics oftalas, her ﬂairfor
adaptation of oral tradition, and her analytical and innovative approach to ahhinaya, she has enriched the Kathak
repertoire creating a large hody ofdance compositions. She has composed dance—dramas on various themes and has
choreographed dance sequences for many ﬁlms and plays as well.

Shrimati Rohini Bhate has several puhlications to her credit including Majhi Nrityasadhana, her autobiography written
in Marathi; Mi Isadora, a Marathi translation ofthe autohiography ofIsadora Duncan; Kathak Darpan Deepika, an
edited version ofAbhinaya Darpana; Darpani Pahata; and Laheja. Documentary ﬁlms on her work have heen made hy
eminent producers. She has also guided the preparation ofsyllahiﬁrr Kathak courses at Lalitkala Kendra University of
Pune, where she has served as a Visiting Lecturer and Guru from 1988 to 2001.
Shrimati Bhate has been honoured with the Kalidas Samman, the Maharashtra Gaurav Puraskar, as well as
the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award.

For her outstanding contrihution to Indian dance, Shrimati Rohini Bhate is elected Fellow of Sangeet Natak Akademi.

Sangeet Natak Akadcmi Awards 2006

9

