s»
SURENDRA NATH JENA
Akademi Award : Odissi Dance

Sbri Surendra Natb fena was born in 1924 in Utcbapur, Orissa, and began bis career as a performer at tbe age of nine.
Encouraged by bis motber; be joined tbe itinerant fatra and Rasa parties and was trained at tbe Banmali Das Tbeatre
under Ariand Nayab. He eventually became tbe Director obearada Kala Kunj ofNagaspur; one oftbe most popular
jatra troupes of tbe time. Fascinated by tbe dramatic power ofKatbabali, be trained under Bala/erisbna Menon in
Calcutta ﬁrr six montbs. He tben moved to Cuttacb to train in Odissi dance at tbe Kala Vibasb Kendra, wbere be studied
under Kelucbaran Mobapatra and Mayadbar Raut for ﬁve years.

Sbrijena moved to Delbi in tbe mid—I960s and taugbt at tbe 'Ii‘iveni छिछि Sangam till recently Over tbe last forty years, '
be bas extended tbe vocabulary ofmovements oftbe reconstructed Odissi tradition and evolved a distinct style in Odissi
dance. Tbis style is permeated witb tbe experience of Orissan sculptures, especially ofKonarb and tbe Cbaunsatb Yogini
temples, and texts sucb as Abhinaya Chandrika and Shilpa Prakash. His compositions Konark Kanti (I967), Chaya
Jhatak (I971), Shilpa Chandrika (1977), bis abbinaya on tbe Geeta Govinda and poems by well—known Oriya poets

are all a part ofbis extensive repertoire. Imbued witb Vaisbnava, Sbaiva, and Sbabta or tantric content witbin tbe
context ofbhakti, bis abbinaya does not sby away ﬁ'om Bibbatsa and Raudra rasas, relating tbem witb bis early

experience ofjatra.
Sbri fena bas trained many dance scbolars like Dr Kapila Vatsyayan and Dr Frederique Marglin. His students in dance
include bis daugbters Pratibba, Re/eba, and Rama. He bas conducted worbsbops and lecture-demonstrations in India
and abroad, and bis work bas been documented by several organizations.
He bas received several awards including tbe Nritya Bbusban from छिछि Vibasb Kendra, for tbe teacbing of Odissi dance.

Sbri Surendra Natb fena receives tbe Sangeet Natab A/eademi Awardfor bis contribution to Odissi dance.

Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards 2006

23

