GAUTAM BHATTACHARYA
Akademi Award: Allied Theatre Arts (Lighting)

Shri Gautam Bhattacharya was born in 1955 in Delhi. He read English literature at Delhi University ﬁ'om 1973 to
1976 and was awarded his college colour for his contribution to dramatics. Aﬁer a short course in puppetry at the Indian
Institute ofMass Communication, he attended a course in stage lighting at the Sri Ram Centre ﬁrr Art and Culture in
New Delhi. Subsequently, up to 1998, he worked with the leading lighting designers Sitanshu Mukherjee and Tapas Sen
on various prestigious projects in lighting in India and abroad. Besides stage lighting for dance and theatre, these
assignments included lighting ofpavilions at international trade fairs and lighting design ﬁrr sound—and—light shows at
historical monuments in Gwalior; Agra, and Delhi.

Simultaneously, Shri Bhattacharya had worked independently since the early 1980s, and established a personal
reputation as a lighting designer. He has executed stage lighting for many institutions in Delhi such as Kathak Kendra,
Iriveni Kala Sangam, the Bhoomika Dance Theatre, and Shri Ram Bharatiya Kala Kendra. For Sangeet Natak
Akademi, he has handled lights in a number ofprestigious festivals both in India and abroad. He has workedfor a
galaxy of individual dancers including Kelucharan Mohapatra, Birju Maharaj, Durga Lal, C. V. Chandrashekhar;
Astad Deboo, Sonal Mansingh, Leela Samson, and Swapnasundari, and designed lights for dance productions by
Chandralekha, Manjushri Chaki Sir-car; and Singhajit Singh. He has also worked with major theatre directors such as
Habib Tanvir, Shiela Bhatia, B. V. Karanth, Satyadev Dubey, Rajinder Nath, and Barry john.

On assignment from the Indian Councilﬁrr Cultural Relations, Shri Gautam Bhattacharya has designed and executed
lights for Festivals ofIndia held in Czechoslovakia (1989), Hungary (1993), Kazhakistan (1997), and Belgium

(2006). In the past few years, he has designed lighting ﬁrr sound—and—light shows at the Khajuraho temples in Madhya
Pradesh, the Chandragiri Fort in Andhra Pradesh, and the Residency in Lucknow
He was awarded the Chaman Lal Memorial Award in 2006 in association with Rosco Colour Lab of U. K ﬁrr his work
in the ﬁeld ofstage lighting.
Shri Gautam Bhattacharya receives the Sangeet Natak Akademi Awara’for his contribution to Indian theatre
as lighting designer:

Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards 2006

35

