REKHA JAIN
Akademi Award: Overall Contribution to Performing Arts
Shrimati Rekha jain was born in 1924 in Agra. She obtained diplomas in Hindi literature and Hindustani music, and
embarked upon her artistic career with the Indian People’s Theatre Association in Calcutta in 1943, working with
Sombhu Mitra and her husband Nemichandra jain. From her mentor Shanti Bardhan she imbibed the dance-drama
style while working in the Central Ballet Troupe ofII’IH in Bombay She toured the country as a member ofthe Troupe

in the 1940s, rousing people by performances and collecting funds for political activity Post independence, she directed
and acted in plays ﬁrr II’IH in Allahabad and conducted performances of music and dance. She started working with the
Children Little Theatre in Delhi in 1956 and also received training at the Asian Theatre Institute. In 1979 she started
her own group Umang and pioneered the concept ofneighbourhood theatre with a view to providing an avenue for
artistic expression to unprivileged children together with those ofthe upper classes.

A leading playwright, choreographer; and director ofchildrerzs plays, Shrimati Rekha fain has evolved a distinctive style of
theatre in which child perﬁrrmers use music, dance and poetry to create and enter a magical world that both entrances
and educates. Her productions ofplays, mostly written by herself such as 33 Re Ga Ma Tak Dhina Dhin, Ganit Desh,

Swadheenata Sangram and others are deeply rooted in an Indian aesthetic sensibility and are at the same time
contemporary and socially inﬁrrmed. Even at eighty—three, her creativity, enthusiasm, and desire to take on new challenges
in the sphere ofchildren’s theatre remain undiminished.

Shrimati Rekha jain has published more than twenty plays ﬁrr children, apart from books, articles and reviews on Indian
music andﬁrlk dance. Several ofher plays andﬁrlk music performances have been broadcast on television and radio. She
has directed children 's theatre workshops in many cities all over the country.

titled Rekha Jain (2001), authored by Mahesh Anand.

.

Shrimati Rekha jain receives‘the Sangeet Natak Akaderni Awardfor her overall contribution in the perﬁnming arts.

_,..m... 4»- .. ८

She has been honouredfor her varied work by the Hindi Akademi, Sahitya Kahz I’arishad, Delhi Natya Sangh, Uttar
Pradesh Sangeet Natak Akademi, and other organizations. The National School ofDrama has published a book on her

Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards 2006

