NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA
The National School of Drama and Asian Theatre was established in 1959 by Sangeet Natak Academy. In 1975, National School of
Drama (NSD) began its work as an independent body. It is fully financed by the hIinistry of Human Resource Development & Department
of Culture, Government of India.

National School of Drama imparts both theoretical and practical training in theatre. Each student who gets selected for the three years
training programme receives a scholarship.
Students are selected through interviews and on the basis of a practical workshop. To run a well made training programme, apart from its
own faculty of teachers, the School invites distinguished teachers, theatre directors from within the country and abroad. Cohesively experts
and students go through various stages of building a theatre production besides theoretical and practical knowledge. National School of
Drama has also accommodated many foreign students from countries such as hlauritius, Nepal, Bangladesh and Nigeria.
NSD has an extension programme also. Under this programme NSD organises theatre workshops which aim to develop understanding
about the basics of theatre. During summer vacations the School conducts several such workshops throughout the country.
Through the Theatre-in-Education programme NSD targets to bridge the gap between the formal education system and annual activities
of theatre held in the schools. National School of Drama’s Theatre-in-Education Repertory, Sanskaar Rang Toli, not only performs plays
for children in schools but also conducts theatre workshops with children, teachers and parents.
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964-65. Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of more than 1 20 plays
ranging from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to translations and adaptations of foreign language plays.
Eminent directors of national and international repute from within the country and abroad have worked with the company. The Repertory
tours extensively all over India and has also made several successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, Mauritius and China.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographers, set—models, costumes, properties, posters, etc., of Repertory productions was
inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the SilverJubilee Celebrations of the company. It is a permanent exhibition.
Since 1998 NSD has been organising an annual national level Theatre Festival christened Bharat Rang Mahotsava. This vent ure. is new
to the theatre arena. This year NSD has the proud privilege to have been designated as the nodal agency to organise theatre events for the
German Festival in India by the Cultural Department, Ministry of Tourism and Culture.
National School of Drama has a multi-dimensional identity. For the past 41 years NSD has been instrumental in providing a fair amount of
theatre actiw'ty across the country.

