SANSKAAR RANG 'I‘OLI (TIE Co.)
Sanskaar Rang Toli (TIE Co.) of National School of Drama was established on 16 October, 1989, and it is one of the important educational
resources in the country. Toli consists of a group of actor-teachers working with and performing for children on regular basis.
Playsfer Children: The major focus of Toli is to perform creative, curricular and participatory plays in schools specially designed and prepared
for children of different ages to create awareness and encourage children to raise questions, make decisions and to adopt theatrical skills as
an alternative.
Till date, Toli has completed more than 550 performances of 18 plays in Delhi and other parts of the country These plays have been
witnessed by more than है lakh spectators, among whom are schoolchildren, college students, teachers, parents and also theatre lovers. Toli

has also collaborated with NDMC (New Delhi Municipal Corporation) to perform in their schools.
Téachers" lVor/tshops.‘ Toli offers training workshops for teachers to establish and utilise theatre "meaningfully" with their pupils. It also offers
skills, techniques for effective and enjoyable teaching learning activity in classroom situation. Toli has also conducted workshops with
NCERT on a pilot project based on "Theatre Movement at Primary Level" in which teachers from various backgrounds participated. Apart
from working with the teachers of Delhi schools, Toli has worked with teachers of Tripura, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal.
Summer Theatre Wiir'lcshopsfor Children: This regular, annual feature offers a month- long Intensive Summer Theatre WOrkshop for Children
which is held in May-June. Besides training in theatre and allied arts, personality development and integration are important aspects of this
workshop. What began as a modest venture with one centre is now held at eight centres.
During the past years, Toli organised 55 theatre workshops in summer vacations. More than 3,600 children from 2 , 300 families participated
in the month-long intensive workshops.
Saturday Club with Children: Saturday Club in an extension of the Summer Workshops, where more extensive work is done with children of
various age groups to create original plays through a process of improvisational series. During this training the children jointly decide a
theme or a subject and work on it in a very creative process.
Toli runs the Saturday Club every year from August toJanuary. It culminates with the shows of plays created by the children themselves. Till
today around 980 children participated in 4 7 groups and have created more than 38 praiseworthy plays.
Saturday Club Part 11: Saturday Club students‘ request to continue with Toli’s creative theatrejourney compelled us to give further extension to
this programme as Saturday Club Part II. Various areas of theatre are introduced to the children in a simpliﬁed and playful
manne1%through improvisational process they also develop their skill to work on a structure of a play in a manner that “they are aware of
what they are doing.” All this culminates into a play at the end.
Wbrkshops with Colleges 59° Organisations: Workshops for colleges, parents, social organisations and children with special needs are also Toli’s

important activities. Toli organises theatre festivals and has undertaken extensive tours in collaboration with various departments and
institutions such as Max Muller Bhawan (Delhi), Padatik (Calcutta), Department of Culture (UP), Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, Voice Box
U.K., Language Alive U.K.,Japan Foundation Samadhan (NGO, Delhi),Jawahar Navodya Vidyalaya Samiti, Bawana Women’s College,
Jesus and Mary College, etc.
Toli had been in touch with many Toli companies abroad. From time to time Toli invites foreign experts to have internal workshops for Toli
members.

'Eurs €65” Festivals: During 1994-95 Toli toured with its plays and workshops to various states of the country and also participated in the
International Theatre Festival in Warsaw (Poland).
jashnehaehpan: Toli organised its first ever National Theatre Festival for Children, titledJashnebachpan, l 0- 19 November, 1998, which is

now an annual feature. The objective of the festival is to focus the role of children theatre in the integrated growth of a child touching upon
his psychological, mental, emotional and social growth.
Toli will also be working on creating syllabus for schoolchildren of different age groups in the near future.

