A Few More Press Opinions
Glimpses of the difficult, and yet fascinating life of the mountain-locked district
of Garhwal were provided in the three one-act plays presented on the ﬁrst day of Garhwali
Drama Festival.

One of the plays,

The lake of the She-ghosts,

made the nostalgic crowd

from that part of the country re-live a few intense moments of their life in that unkind yet

fabulously beautiful land.
for a western audience.

Though not a ballet it has no less an appeal than Giselle has

The other play, The Court of the Crooked, is a satire on the system of justice in
Garhwal The Lost Ram is a humourous skit revolving round the life of a demobilised

upside down when one of his rams
SOldier Who takes ‘0 tending Sheep and turns the village
is found missing.

de
Mr- L M- Thapalyal, who wrote and produced the plays, deserves the gratitu
e entertainment of
0f hi” Wk for I’FOViding ﬁne fragments of the wealth of the genuin
G arhwal.

—-The Times of India, 14th February, 1959
Some unusual dramatic fare was presented by the Garhwal Sangeet Netak Samaj...
to use as
.....There is little doubt about the felicity with which the dialect lends itself
have
dramatic dialogue but its appeal is naturally limited. One wonders whether it would

en the
been a better idea for the group to produce in Hindi using the dialect to strength
main language ..... Judging from the reaction of the audience the lines seemed to hit hone
......uniform1y
and it was on the whole an enjoyable evening..: .... ..The standard of acting.-good .......... ..perhaps reﬂected the advantage the actors had in using a speech, the cadences
and inﬂexions of which came to them most naturally ..............

—-The Sunday Standard, 14th February, 1959

.....Plays mirroring life in the hills............The acting was convincing .....
plays.......... ..
Effective lighting and background music ﬁnely brought out the moods of the
——The Hindustan Times, I4th February, 1959

A folk colour as pleasant as it was new, marked the three dramatic productions
Jawain,
by the Garhwal Sangeet Natak Samaj .......... ..The three items presented were Ghar
drama.
dance
a
and
a brief play in the comic vein ; Achharyun-ko-Tal, another brief play,
.. .... did credit not only to the players who staged them but also to the
The ﬁrst two
simple hill folk they dealt with. The dance drama, composed by Mohan Upreti, was also a

fair representation of the rhymes and rhythms of the hills.
— The Indian Express, 19th March, 1962

