GH O ST S
H ENR IK 1BSE N
( I 82 8- I 9 06)
[A PLAY IN THREE ACTS. THERE IS A FIFTEEN MINUTE
INTERVAL AFTER THE FIRST ACT.]

The play opens with REGINE ENGSTRAND engaged in a hostile conversation with
JACOB ENGSTRAND, her so-called father.

Their conversation is brought to a close by the
arrival of PASTOR MANDERS.
Pastor Manders has come to participate in

the inaugural ceremony of CAPTAIN ALVING I

leads her to another.- confrontation with Pastor
Manders. She argues for the primacy of human
love over the sanctity of legal marriage. At
this stage, Engstrand appears to request the
Pastor to hold a service at the orphanage to
which the Pastor agrees.

Soon after, Oswald reveals to his mother the

MEMORIAL HOME, an orphanage dedicated

terrible disease he suffers from.

to the memory of the late husband of MRS.
ALVING.

nothing, but the sins of his father visited upon
him, an inheritance he can never write off.

Mrs. Alving and the Pastor settle down to a
serious conversation on morality and literature.

his offer is lost in the exitement of the burning

Oswald’s entry brieﬂy interrupts the conversation. Pastor Manders, a priest is confronted
with the artist. Manders - is shocked by
Oswald’s frankness, and furthermore by Mrs.
Alving’s approval of her son’s ideas. In his
attempt to assert the authority of the Church,
the Pastor stumbles upon a few family secrets
which horrify him. He learns from Mrs. Alving
that her husband was a debauch, and had

had an affair with her maid—servant. Soon
afterwards Mrs. Alving hears a scufﬂe between
Oswald and Regine in the conservatory, and is
reminded of her husband and the maidservant in the same role. Mrs. Alving decides
to

get

Regine out of her house to prevent

Oswald from re-enacting his father’s past. This

The disease is

Later, Oswald offers to marry Regine but
orphanage.

Engstrand appears again to insi-

nuate that the Pastor, through his carelessness,

had set ﬁre to the orphanage.

The Pastor is

horriﬁed, but feels relieved when Engstrand

offers to take the blame for the ﬁre for a
certain consideration. Soon, Manders, Engstrand and Regine take their leave of the Alving
household.

Mrs. Alving and Oswald are left alone to
struggle together against the oppressive darkness of their life for light and sunshine and '
glorious air. Oswald, an exile from the sun,

longs desperately to embrace the glad ﬂames of
day. But a heavy curtain hides his sun from
him; and the sun gives little light, and the light
no warmth.

