SYNOPSIS

A P N I

D HA R T I
by

REOTI

War is terrible.

SARAN

SHIARMA

It is terrible for those who ﬁght it.

But it is more

terrible for their kiths and kins. The real emotional pain and
poignancy of
war is experienced by the mothers, sisters and wives of the ﬁghters.
But
where honour is at stake and independence and territory is involv
ed, war must
be fought. however, painful and cruel it may be.
The play depicts a mother, a sister and a wife. Balwant, a JCO in the
army is recalled from leave and sent to front, just three days after his marriage
.
His mother, sister and wife have to face the cruelest blow of circumstances.
But they let him go, though not without tears, for the peasant must: ﬁght
for
his land. Land and daughter—the honour of the two has to be protect
ed -~

this is the age old tradition of the peasant.
Balwant goes to war. How the three poor ladies console each other
:
how they ﬁght fear and desperation ; how they take the news of
Balwant

‘reported missing’ ५- it is a tale of tears and real human pathos. But this
time
they ﬁnd they are not alone, forlorn or forgotten. People from the village and
from the town come to them and not only share their sorrow, but express that

gratitude which a free nation must express to its soldiers.
And ultimately the soldier comes back. but defeated, suffering from

frost — bite and blind from sun glare - though temporarily.

It is not melo—

drama. Peaple have really offered their eyes for soldiers who have lost theirs.
And Hamid a friend of Balwant offers his eyes. But Balwant’s deepest wound
is that he had returned defeated, for his ammunition had run out.

We were really unprepared. But we are preparing. We will, one day
match the agressor. So the soldier must be told that next time it will be
different, for we will give him that weapon and equipment which we could
not give and that we will take from the enemy what we did not take so far ~
real ﬁght, vengeance, our land.
And Masterjee, the village oldman tells it in the idiom, it should be told.

the idiom of strength, hope, and resolution.

