‘25 Years of lndraprastha ' Theatres
of him. As the time passed, he veered from bitterness to amusement and back
to bitterness again. Suddenly his eyes fell on Mr. Anand. Mr. Anand had then
recently joined the Punjabi Theatre and out of his love for theatre was attending all the rehearsals. He pressed Mr. Anand to appear on stage and agreed
to lend him the voice of the prornpter it he could just synchronise his actions with
it. Mr. Anand did mare then this in accepting the challenge. He made the
prornpter sit under a table fully covered with cloth dangling down to the ﬂoor,
right on the stage near his place of action, and proceeded to act out the character, delivering every dialogue according to the script in his own voice. with
every bit of stage business in tact. The play went so smoothly that no one could
discover that an un-rehearsed, new actor had replaced the original actor, But
in the process a new ‘discovery’ was made - that of R. G. Anand. The writerproducer G. S. Khosla and Prof. | C. Nanda who were also acting on the stage

along with Anand, were absolutely thrilled by his performace. The press acclaimed
Anand as the best actor.

BIRTH OF A

NEW THEATRE

R. G. Anand's performace ln ‘BUHE BAITHI DHEE’ won him. his new
admirers-the prorninents of which were D. P. Khosla, C.S. Gupta. S.L. Bali, Lt. Col.
M. L. Suri, C. L. Nayyar, K. S. Hoon & Hari Oberoi and joining hands together
they formed themselves into a new society - lndraprastha Natya Mandal, and shook
Delhi with their very ﬁrst production of P. K. Atre’s VIVAH BANDHAN. The
group-made planned and systematic attempt to create Hindustani Theatre in

Delhi in those rnake- believd theatre halls ot Metro Restaurant, Wavell Theatre and
Massey Hall of Y. M. C. A. ‘VlVAH BANDHAN’ was followed by Rangnekar’s
‘YEH MERA GHAR HAI’, P. K. Atre’s, ‘DUNlYA KYA KAHEGI’, Khawaja Ahmed
Abbas’s ‘MAIN KAUN HOON'.
In 195:1 the group presented ‘DESH-HAMARA’ - the ﬁrst play writted &
directed by R. G. Anand. Shri Harekrushna Mehtab, the then Minister of Commerce and Industry remarked :

I

“The Desh Hamara has been a success both from the
point of view of literature and ot the need of the
society at present. The drama is a sample of that
type of literature which the country requires in
plenty after the people rule."

In 1952. lndraprastha Natya Manda! merged itself with the Indian Nationa
l
Theatre and produced under the joint banner, R.G Anand’s ‘ELECTlONS "AZADIu
‘HUM-HINDUSTANI’ and ‘TALAAQ' - all of them a roaring success The play.S

