C LN E M A
‘d

A Classical Scene m क्या tétms in Sanskrit
will marine e ' टूडे दृ दृ । क्यास्ति. ("an they new
revive the nutrient ईफ्लॉड्डेद्रड्डेदुहुदृड्डब्लोदृच्चा . 2“ 5 N E HA B H uRA
H E N ARs H IA S a ttar, n 0ted
for her English translations
of Valmiki’s Ramayana
and the Kathasaritsagara,
was studying Sanskrit in the US, she

remembers watching GV Iyer’s Adi
Shankamcharyu (1983)~India’s ﬁrst

Sanskrit feature ﬁlmﬁas a ‘language
exercise’. The movie outing was
hardly meant togenerate a can’t-wait-towatch kind ofexcitement . She and her
peers spentInost of their time
exchanging noteson possible
translations of what was being said
onscreen. Today, aﬁer a hiatus of more
than a decade, there are three new
Sanskrit ﬁlms lined up forrelease in the
course of the next year. Willthey go
beyond a niche audience and help create
a well-deﬁned genre ofrnodern Sanskrit
cinema in the future? Sattaris sceptical. ‘As for the ‘future’ of Sanskrit ﬁlms,

I can’tsee it as terriblybright. Unless in
the next fewyears weare persuadedthat
Sanskrit is the onlylanguage we should
be speaking,’ she says over email.
Vinod Mankara, an award-winning
ﬁlmmaker and writer from Kerala, is

more hopeful. He was ﬁrst exposed to
the reﬁned eleganceof Sanskrit as
a child when he would visit
temples in his hometown to watch
elaborate Kathakali performances
with his grandparents. He was
besotted with the richly detailed spectacle of this classical dance-dramaren~
dered in chaste Sanskrit. One particular
play stayed with him. What Mankara
really liked about Nalacharitham was
how the play dealt with ﬂeshrandr
blood human ﬁgures rather than the
gods, goddesses and demons in all the
other Kathakali performances he had
seen. He later studied the play in
college and went on to make a
critically-acclaimed documentary on it
titled Nalacharitham Anchaam Divasam,
which won the Kerala Kalamandalarn

Award. Today, after ﬁve years ofwork—

4a 3?:i

ing on the script, Mankara is ready
to release Priyamanusam, a ﬁlm that

chronicles the agony and ecstacy of the
17th century romantic poetscholar Unnayi Warrier while he was
engaged in the creation of his master,
piece Nalachuritham Athakatha
Once, while ﬁlming Priyamunasam,
Mankara called some ofhis crew rnern
bers to the studio to see snippets of his
Sanskrit ﬁlm. He wanted to gauge their
response. He was relievedto ﬁnd that

theyunderstood everything that was
going on in the scene, in spite of not

knowing the leastbit of Sanskrit.That’s
when Mankara knew he was on the
right track. “I have used Kathakali as
the subject of this ﬁlm. And Kathakali

is very colourfuland so is my treatment of the subject. The colourful
scenes andthe acting will aid the comprehension of the language. Also, in
the last two Sanskrit movies, the lane

guage was used in a very rigid manner.
In Priyamanusam, I have used Sanskrit
dialogues in a very talkative way, like

you would talk in Malayalam or Hindi,"
he says, explaining his departure in
style from that of the Kannada ﬁlmmaker GV Iyer. Interestingly Mankara’s
Priyamunasam (‘sweetheart’ inSanskrit)

isfully composedin the ancient language from start to ﬁnish, including the
creditsand names on posters, ina bid to
make Sanskrit its real hero.
In the ﬁlm, when Warrier isseen in
the act ofwriting Nalachmitham in the
palace of’I‘ravancore—as the king and
the queen anxiously await the ﬁnal
draft‘the poet swings between acute
spasms ofhallucination andreality.
The characters ofhis play come alive in
his mind. These illusory characters talk

and argue with the writer andare cleve
erly juxtaposed with the appearance of
the three female lovers who had inﬂuenced the poet’s past. This chimeric in»
termingling of the past, present and fu»
ture inthe poet’s mind isemblematic of

a creative churn common to many, and
can be transposed to writers and artists

ofany age. This aspect ofthe period drama, Mankara feels, will resonatewith a

modern audience. Due to release in the
ﬁrst week ofSeptember, Priyamanasam

will be the third Sanskrit language
ﬁlm in the historyof Indian cinema.
“Marketing the movie will be a big
challenge. I am planning to release it in
ﬁve to ten cinema halls in many cities
in India. But most importantly, I will
release it abroad as many universities
7 SEPTEMBER 2015

