A still from India‘s ﬁrst Sanskritanimation feature film Punyakoti

writer of children’s books, he had a
story to tell. And the workshop in»
spired him to meld his storytelling and
multimedia skills with his newfound
love ofSanskrit intoa Sanskrit ﬁlm.
If all goes by plan, next August will
see Ravishankar release Punyakoti,
the country’s ﬁrst crowd-fundedand
crowd-sourced Sanskrit animation
feature ﬁlm. Set to tune by the
acclaimed musicmaestro Ilaiyaraaja
himself, the ﬁlm’s story is derived from
the Padmn Pur'ana, a Sanskrit text about
a beautiful cow called Punyakoti who
is an epitome of honesty and truth.
In Karnataka, the Kannada version

of this story is more popular as a folk
song called Gavina haadu and is set
in the ﬁctional village of Karunaadu.
Ravishankaruses the premise of this
song to weave another story on mananimal conﬂict, when Karunaadu is

beset with adrought, to show how the
ideals of the truthful cow are relevant
under the circumstances.
“This project is a big experi»
ment in Indian cinema itself,” says
Ravishankar, “The pre-production of
the movie has been donein a crowd»
sourced manner for the ﬁrst time ever
in the country.” Several studios and
animators have collaborated to produce the varied scenes in the ﬁlm, he
elaborates, but to ensure somemeth—
ed to the madness, everyshot has been
prevwritten and there exists a strict
style sheet. “One animator is in Brazil.
He is Portuguese. All I know is that he
loves Sanskrit and is trained in
animation. In fact, I have not even
seen some of myteam members,”says

the ﬁlmmaker, who hopes to garner
his estimated budget of Rs 40 lakh via
Wishberry, a crowdfunding website.
Ravishankar even got his dialogues
simpliﬁed by Samskrita Bharati,
ITS छि OP Ni चि7

India’s premierinstitution involved in
promoting spoken Sanskrit the world

the world has the kind ofwordrgenerr
ating power that Sanskrit has. When a
language is used on a daily basis, words
automatically corn‘c into existence.
Current developments can be easily
updated inSanskrit ifit is used daily."
Ask Shastry if Sanskrit is really being
used beyond academic seminars and
conferences, and he conﬁdently reels
offa set of numbers. “During the last 34
years,” he says, “Samskrita Bharati has
taught more than 10 million people to
speak Sanskrit and trained more than

over. Yet, not everyone is convinced

I 00,000 teachers. Lakhs of people have

that celluloid ventures in thelanguage will ﬁnd large enough audienc»
es. National Award-winning ﬁlm critic
MK Raghavendra has his reservations,
especially since Sanskrit does not lend
itself easily to the exploration ofunconventional subjects. “Sanskrit takes
too much effort to learn, its vocabulary
has not been expanded to include
contemporary experience andthis
means that ﬁlms in Sanskrit will have
touse English terms like pizza, mobile phone, AK 47," says Raghavendra.
“Most importantly, we can’t have bad
words in Sanskrit. Since cinemais gettingrnore violent and is dealing with
crimeincreasingly, with people con»
stantly swearing, how will Sanskrit ace
comrnodate that? How is a gangster go~
ing to curse his enemies in Sanskrit?”
He believes that Indian audiences may
at the most enjoy bits of Sanskritin a
Hindi ﬁlm: “Say, a ﬁlm abouta peaceloving Sanskritscholar who is made
angry by rufﬁans and becomes tough.”
Charnu Krishna Shastry, who pioneered the ‘Speak Sanskrit Movement’
through his NGO Sarnskrita Bharati,
counters that view: “As far asvocabulary is concerned , no other language in

started using Sanskrit as a medium
ofcornrnunication. Today it is widely

“l n the last two Sanskrit
movies, the language
was used in a very
rigid manner. In
Privarnanasam, I have
used Sanskrit dialogues in
a very talkative way"
VINOD MANKARA, direttor. Priyamanagam

used in homes, schools and private

conversations. "

MOTHER FILMMAKER trying to reA vive Sanskrit on celluloid is the
well known Kannada ﬁlmmaker KSL
Swamy, better known as Ravi. Titled
Prabhodha Chandmdayam (‘Rise of
the Moon of Intellect’), his ﬁlm based

is based on an 1 rth century play by
Krishna Mishra Yati and isbeing fund
ed by the Central and Karnataka gov?
ernrnents along with some religious
mathas. Interestingly, Ravi worked
as assistant director to GV Iyer for 30
years, which may explain his own attempt to release a ﬁlm in Sanskrit. But
his ﬁlm will also have a smattering of
Malayalam and other local languages,
as Ravi noted in a recent article: ‘Could
people like bhajiwalas talk in Sanskrit?
At no point in our history did the entire
population speak the language.’
Professor Ramesh C Bhardwaj, head
ofthe Sanskrit Department at Delhi
University, isclear about the value of
the language. “Without Sanskrit, there
is no way you can understand anything
about Indian culture. The language carries the entire Spectrum ofthe Indian

intellectual system,” he says. “The
question is not about how many people
are speaking Sanskrit, which is hardly
more than 1 per cent anyway. So many
great Sanskrit scholars I know can
hardly speak the language. It is about
understanding the root of our culture.
tohighlight the illustrious tradition of
our intellectual thought. Perhaps, this
is what these movies are trviric .o do." I
7 SEPTEMBER 2015 I

