FOLK DANCES .OF KUMAON
M oh3 n U p reti

of
FROM ancient times dancing has been considered a celestial art by the people
s
Kumaon. Most of the folk dances of the region are associated with local religiou
the region
practices and beliefs. Among the most fascinating mythical being of
variously describare the dancing damsels which dwell on snow-clad peaks and are
are fairies or
ed as Ancherz‘a, kecherz‘s or paris. According to Oakley “they
beauty, sumptuowomen who move in the ﬁrmament young women of surpassing
His dancing girls... ..
usly clothed and supposed to belong to the Court of Indra,
They are said to ﬂy or ﬂoat along the sky without any visible wings”.

ied girls
According to one belief, the Ancheris are the spirits of young unmarr
According
souls.
who died with no funeral rites following to give peace to their
to Lord Shiva to
to another, they are the daughters of Ravana who offered them

serve him as Chelis or maids.

One other version makes them part of the Krishna

Eternal dance with their
lore and likens them to the Gopis, who dance the
lord.

attached to the art
Folklball ids of Kumaon amply illustrate the importance
deeds of two brothers, Siddua
of dancing. The Ramola ballad sings of the heroic

the art of ﬂute-playing.
and Bidua Ramola. They were great musicians, adept in
to join them and dance
Their music was so enchanting that it tempted the ancherz‘s
of the forest.
whenever they started their ﬂute play in the depths

In another

shaking off an old romantic
folk ballard, Malushahi, the heroine has a hard time
g to impress her by the talk of
Chieftain who insists on her marrying him. Failin
ds to win her favours by dis—
his great wealth, valour and social status, he procee

the girl who makes her
playing his skill as a dancer. This comes as a boon to
dance movement.
esCape while he is engaged in executing a complicated
‘a-Baul,
Among the folk dances of Kumaon, Jhora, Hurkz

Chholia, Chhapeli

Jagar are the most important.
hundred men and
is a community dance in which as many as two
Jhora
no special skill. Holding each
women, or even more, may take part. It requires
mers dancing in the middle of
other’s arms the dancers move in a circle, the drum
the huge mass of
Their bodies swinging forward and backward,
the circle.

s the image of waves in a
dancers held together in a circular arrangement evoke
hills.
disturbed sea or a succession o" undulating

