8
The dance is always accompanied by a song, also called Jhora, sung by the
dances. The dance may be performed at any line of day or night. But it is
generally performed at night in some open ﬁeld or a temple courtyard. A fair
provides the most suitable occasion for it.

The instruments used are Hurka (a

small drum), ﬂute and Manzira (cymtals).
Hur/tz'a-Baul is associated with paddy and Maclua (a type of coarse

grain)

cultivation. It is danced and sung by the traditional ballad singers in the ﬁelds
wlil: the actual work is being done, the cultivators joining in the refrain.
valourous deeds of ancient heroes and heroines from the subject matter of the

songs.

This enthuses the cultivators

and the work is ﬁnished in good time.

The singing and dancing is preceded by some kind of worship and a song which
is, an invocation to the god of earth known as Bhumiya or Bhumiyal.
This song

sings of peace and prosperity which dwell in the kingdom of a benevolent ruler.
The sang element, predominates; in this dance.

Chholiya has its origin in the medieval practice of forcibly carrying away the
bride, prevalent among the old warring Khasa tribes who once ruled Kumaon.
The practice must have been abandoned long but the memory seems
to linger.

The dance is performed as a part of the Rajput marriage ceremony and is
actually
a processional dance.

Attired in martial custumes of ancient warriors with swords and shields
in
their hands the dancers head the marriage procession.
The dancers make one
pair, and there may be more than one pair in a procession.
To the beats of drums
called Dhol, Damaon and Nakara, punctuated by the
shrill notes of the long and
twisted wind instruments, called Turi and Ramsingha,
the dancers move with the
procession, performing the dance all along the way.

The movements are brisk and perfectly synch
ronised and marked by intricate ’

foot-work, balance and agile steps.

The movements of the dancers, war-like

music, ﬂashing swords, a huge red flag with
various animal symbols painted on it,
create the impression of a group advancing for attac
k.

The dancers depict various emotions of fear,
awe, wonder and joy through
the movements of their eyes, eyebrows,
moustach
es

song accompanying this dance.

and shoulders.

There is no

Chhapelz’ is one of the most popular folk.
dances of Kumaon, especially pOpular among the young folk, who danc
e it with great abandon, putting,
as it were,
all their youth into it. It is a duet danc
e for a coupl
.
e, depictin g sentiments of
. love, beauty and romance. Danced in the fairs
, it attracts large crowds

creating

