9
an atmosphere of mirth, youthful joy and hilarity.

With a small mirror in one

partner with a winhand and a colourful handkerchief in the other, the woman

lines of the
some smile on her face and graceful body movements dances to the
l charms or in a
song which is addressed to her, either in praise of her physica
satirical reference to her ways of love-making.

complicaThe dance is characterised by soft circular movements of the body,
The dancing couple
ted waist—bends, soft hip movements and wrist movements.
full swings, returns,
generally moves sideways, and after making three or four
The tempo is fast.
stepping daintily with the knees bent to the original place.

this dance.
The soft circular movement lend a peculiar feminine grace to

The ex-

pression on the dancers faces is gay and joyous.

parts and is sung by the Hurka
The Chhapeli song consists of solo and chorus
circle behind the dancers. The
players and their associates who stand in a semi—
ﬂute and cymbals are the other instruments used.
They are

by themselves.
The Jagar dances of Kumaon constitute a class

trance-dances associated with ghost-worship.

There are more than ﬁfty ballads

fairies, and ghosts.
composed on various spirits, gods and goddesses,

treatment by society.
are ghosts of people who died as a result of ill
of the dance is to propitiate the spirits.

The spirits

The purpose

It is a common belief that if they are

community.
not propitiated, some misfortune will befall the

It is for this reason

sist uses.
that the Jagar dance is also put to exorci

An elaborate ritual precedes actual dancing.

The chief priest called Gantua

r is to be performed.
ﬁxes the day on which a particular Jaga

d or the village.
which sit all the members of the househol

A ﬁre is lit, around

Like some ancient

of
the spirit with slow and measured beats
magician, the D35 (the singer) invokes
starts singing of the god or the spirit to
his drum. With a powerful voice, he
womeno of the music, the dancers, men and
be invoked. With the rising crescend
ax
a hypnotic state. The point of clim
start swaying, and ultimately pass into

es trembling and sweating, they leap
comes when with a sudden yell, their bodi
in a trance, doing different moveinto the arena and start moving round the ﬁre
and legs as if held together only by the
ments with their hands, head, shoulders

s are irregular and there is no
powerful rhythm of the music. The movement
dancers. The Das, realising the
synchronisation between the movements of the
spirits inthem by the names of the
importance of the moment, starts addressing

regarding the cause of some continuing
voked. Various questions are put to them
The
ly or Village and also its remedy.
illness or misfortune in a particular fami

