As Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, and Chief Whip of the

Congress Parliamentary Party for nearly two decades,

Mr. Satyanarayan

Sinha is undoubtedly the most influentiai member, if not a strong man of

the party. It is said of him that he has only two obsessions, dress and
perfume. He wears his Sherwani, Chudidar pyjamas and Gandhi cap in
typical Nehru style, not excluding the red rose in the buttonhol, naturally
and unaffectedly. This and the choice of the ﬁnest perfumes that the
country can produce is not a triumph of vanity, but a reflection of a man
of taste. As Chief Whip, he has hundred cares and worries like seeing
that the quorum is maintained, that members attend party meetings and

vote according to the party whip on certain occassions. But he always
looks gay. It is his sense of humour and an anxiety to be always helpful
that make him popular with his party men and the opposition alike.
For several years some of the opposition members used to tease hlm as
a Minister who chose to remain content with announcing the business
of the House, and not having a desire or flair for making speeches, But

a few years ago. when he rose to reply to the debate on the demands
for grants for his Ministry on Mhich there were several cut motions,
little did hls critic srealise that half an hour later he was going to sit down
with a reputation made as a lively debator, and hit the headlines in the

Press next morning.

Mr. Sinha also made the House roar with laughter

with one of the most witty speeches, and those who came to heckle

remained to cheer. As a Chief Whip, he has often to go and sit beside
several members one by one, and whisper instructions and the opposition
member, Mr Jaipal Singh, used to tease him for not being not in his place.
But Mr. Sinha always took these introduse with as mile and never once
lost his temper.
Son of Mr. Beni Prasad Sinha, Mr. Satyanarayan Sinha was born in I900 in
Darbhanga district. After Matriculating from the Muzaffarpur Zilla School
he graduated from Patna University. Though the son of a big zami
dar
family and a wealthy agriculturist, he joined the Freedom Moveme
nt in
I920, and took an active part. In I926 he was elected to the Biha
r
Legislative Assembly. He has been a member of the AlCC for the last
27 years and was elected to the Central Legisiative Assembly in
I 934.
Thus he is a legislator with 30 years’ experience and became Whip of
the Congress Party in I937. Two years later, he was the Chief
Whip
of the Opposit.on. Whenever Opposition members try to cross
swords
with him on the floor of the House, he always reminds th
em that he
knows all the strategy of the opposition because he had
been on the
other side too. A member of the Lok Sabha since its incept
ion, he
became Minister for Parliamentary Affairs in I948.

Mr. Satyanarayan Sinha is a well known literary figure in
Bihar, and an
authority on Tulsi Das s Ramayana. However heavy his da
ys engagements
might be, he never fails to perform his Puja.

has one son and three daughters

He married in

l 9 I 8 and

