C R lTI CS SAY
SMITA NARULA (The Pioneer)
Cut has the potential of
Cut
the audience loved it. Cut
A promising script
being a funny yet sensitive look at the life of a theatre company behind the scene.
SMITA NARULA (Asian Age)
Tum K0 Chahoon Ke Na Aao is a beautifully written script.

NIKHAT KAZMI (The Times of India)
Polished performances, a delightfully irreverent script and a no-nonsence desire to
entertain helps Ghalib in New Delhi achieve in two hours what the erudite Academies
would have liked to achieve on the poet's bi-centenary.
G. GEORGE (The Statesman)
The theatre was nearly full, in itself most usual pointing to its ready acceptance by
theatregoers who evidently emphasized with the subject raised in the Redline Hazir
Ho.
G. GEORGE (The Statesman)
lblees Ka Beta lshq Kar Baitha deserves encouragement.
KAVITA NAGPAL (The Hindustan Times)
Galib In New Delhi is a fun.
ARUNA AHLUWALIA (The Evening News)
The entire young cast had captured the mood of high ludicrous intensity which
drives Ghalib in New Delhi. I had not expected to be so entertained.
ASHISH SHARMA (The Indian Express)
Tum Ko Chahoon Ke Na Aao had actress Payal Kapoor enacting all the roles in
the hour-and-a-half production and traversing the gamut of emotions.

FIRST CITY
Magar Phir Bhi is a play on AIDS, but a play with a difference. Written by Alam and
directed by Dhirendra Chaubey, it explores not so much society's but the victim's
attitude towards the dreaded disease.
FARIDOON SHAHRYAR (The Times of India)
Saif Hyder Hasan's script is the highlight of play - Kal Tumhari Baari Hai - that
delves into the psyche of an individual who thinks globally and ends up with an
identity crisis.

VASNTHA IYER (National Herald)
Kal Tumhari Baari Hai is a very interesting play, that was as thought provoking as
it was entertaining.
ROMESH CHANDER (The Hindu)
In the years to come when the history of Pierrot's Troupe comes to be written,

Aastha may well go down as an important milestone in its journey from adolescence
to maturity.

