RAMI is based on a popular song of the Garhwal hills of the Central Himatyan
region, known as 'Ftami Bauraana' song. This song is supposed to have been
written after the First World War. It immerﬁately caught the imagination of the
people, becom'ng instantly popular.

RAMI
रागी

The story of the song is very simple. It depicts the sufferings of a young solder
and his newly-wedwife, when the soldier is called upon to join his duties after
the war breaks out. Such songs are common in the folklore of our country, and
perhaps in other countries as well. In this song, the young soldier does not
return, even after the War is over. He is made a prisoner, and returns home
his wife Rami', he teturns to his village in the garb of a rnendicant. He perhaps
wants to test Rami's ﬁdelity.

Therefore he accosts her when she is alone, working in the field. He makes
advances to her. Enraged at his unexpected behaviour, Rami attacks him with
her sickle. He runs away, now conﬁdent about her love for him. He also has
an old mother at home. He reaches the village and starts begging for alrns.
When people gather around him, he prodaims himself as a goat saint who can
predict their past and future. One by one the villagers assemble and show him
his palm. Since he knows every one intimately his predictions are correct. His
mother, who is keen to know about the fate of her son, Mangal Singh,
endearineg called Manglu by the village folk, shows her palm to him. He
proclaims that Manglu is alive, and couldn't come home as he was made a
prisoner of war. The Pradian of the village asks Mangalu's mother to serve the
saint some sweetdish (Kheer) in the bronze plate that was lying at her home.
The mother brings 'Kheer‘ to him. This bronze plate had been given by Mangal
Singi to Rami as a g'lt, and Rami had preserved this for the day when he would
return home. As soon as he touches the plate, Rami returns home from the
fields. She is shocked to see that the whole village is lying at his feet. She
rebukes him in front of the entire village, including her mother-inlaw. Her mother'inlaw rebukes Rani for her rude behaviour. In anger Rani tells the entire village
about the evil desigis of the rnendicant. At this moment the mendirznt declares
that he is not a Mahatma. He dicloses his identity. Everyone is puzzled at this
drama. All are happy to see the reunion.
The last song sung by the Chorus, tuned in a comic vein hints at male
chauvinism, questioning its legitimacy. lt also exposes the hypocracy of our
society, which, on the one hand, worships characters like Kunti, Draupadi and
Sita, and on the other, is ruthless and bnrtal to women whenever slight suspicion

arises about their infidelity. Shouldn't it apply to women and men both? This
is the message.

