"हाँप्ति F.

“r l N Ii ’0

HoI i and
Thanks to Sahitva Kala Parishad; we have just
had a good run of some of the best plays presented on the Delhi stage in 1991 .Frorn the plays
staged during January~December 1991 . a panel
of judges selected ten. including one in English.
for the Parishad‘s annual drama festival staged
this past week. For reasons unavoidable. three of
the groups could not accept the Parishad's invitation. and the festival opened with Ranjeet
Kapoor's popular presentation by SEC Repertory. "The Janpath Kiss" — a play already reviewed in these columns when it was first pro-

0'19?झा ८० I० rs
क्या'

duced.
The festival's second play. Mahesh Elkun-

chwar's "Holi" in Vasant Dev's Hindi translation.
has been staged in Delhi a number of times. but
it is Act One's presentation now under N. K.
Shanna that really brings out the frustration of
students with our education system.
The plot of the play is simple. The Principal
has decided not to close the college for Holi; instead he has invited a politician to speak on culture. and attendance is "compulsory". Students
are agitated; some of them want a confrontation
and others a negotiation. But the Principal is
adamant. Come the big day and the students
heckle the guest speaker —- and the meetir
ends in a fiasco. One of the boys who has a -

Great drama. great Holl. A spirited moment in At One's ‘Holi' staged in Delhi.

ways been teased for his homosexual tendencies
N. K. Shanna's production succeeds admirsqueaks; a number of students are detained. and ably in underlining the
frustrations of individuals
Ran‘eet. one of the more aggressive. is expel- not only through anger and
vio
len
ce
but
als
o
led. he betrayer is discovered by his boyfriend thrOi h song. poetry and
even silence and presand the gang unleashes its fury on him. He is not ents e collective des
pair as a well orchestrated
only beaten up but also paraded about dressed ensemble.

In the final analysis. the ensembles perfection
owes much to individual talent of actors like
Ashish Vidyaarthi. who has perfect control" over
his voice and movement. and Piyush Mishra as

Piyush Mishra‘s music and lyrics are a subtle
comment on the situations. lendinga rare depth
to the production.
This Act One presentation of Hell is the best
that l have seen of Elkunchwar's play. including
Ketan Anand's film version and Vijay Mehta's

production with National School of Drama students.

"Chakkravyuha". Hindi translation of G. P.

Laloo. Mention deserves to be made also of
Man
oj
Vajp
ayee
.
Sur
end
ra
Sag
er and Sujit
up in a sari and finally locked up in a room.

Deshpande's Marathi play "Andhar Yatra". presented by Abhiyan and directed by Rajinder Nath.
i is the story of an attractive. intelli nt woman.

Sarker who .all perform with commendable con-

; Vasundhara, who. is aprofessomf . nskrit. and

trol over their emotions. ‘ Of course. the
teamwork would have been incomplete without

of the four Men in her life. She was'earlier marr-

where he kills himself.
Within this simple plot the sensitively catches the pulse of
canrpm and.
thanks to the cast. the pulse-81mm are felt loud
and clear by the
’
>

the sense of timing shown by
jay. Edwin. WWII. Batten.
Some CW; '

Chauhan. Vi-I
icky. Anis and

