ied to a smell-time ख्याला who exploited
her looks to win financiat favours from a minister.

Captain Verma and mom Kapoor while
on guard d
one night Col. Surat Sir

Daulatrao Rajemane. We meet her in the play (Piyush Mishr . known for his impw'tiality. is
when she has already left her husband and decided to live independently. At univers' she

with
ts emotionally and physically involv
gareepad. a Marxist professor; and for Ashwath.
a radical student leader. she has maternal instincts.

Ashwath gets involved in the Naxalite movement A doctor has been killed in police action
on the Andhra-Maharashtra border. and Ashwath
decides to go there to organise protest against

the police killings. Shreepad tries to persuade
him not to go; for he does not support the Maxalites' adventurism. Daulatrao forewarns Vasundhara about the tragic fate that is awaiting

'esiding officerﬂamchander has eaded guilty
he has to be proven so. The p aywright uses
the trial to expose the relationships between different ranks not only in the Army but also in life
as suchBamchander. it comes out in the course
of the trial. has never lied. He is an excellent soldier and a champion runner. having beaten श्या

Kapoor. the previous Unit Champion. Capt
Kapoor has never forgiven him for this. and has
him assigned as his orderly at his residence. T'o
humiliate him further. he flings his caste at him on
every possible occasion. Unable to bear it all.
Ramchander asks for a transfer of duty. But even
in his new posting the two officers always hurl
abuses at him. Unable to bear it any IOIEI. he
poor
One night shoots to kill them; but Capt
survives. At the trial that follows, Gajraj Rao in
Capt Roy's role brilliantly exposes the attitude of
the upper ranks towards the weaker sections of

Ashwath and possibl Shreepad. Vasundhara.
who thinks that even hreepad's Marxism is futile. tries to persuade Ashwath not to o; for he
is the only hope left in her life. As wath. of
course goes —— and is killed in a police encOun- society as such.
ter. Shreepad is extremely upset b Ashwath's
death and decides to throw in is lot with
The play is excellently structured and brilliantly
Ashwath and his comrades. in spite of their performed even if there are slips hers and there
"adventurism".l-ie. too, is arrested on a trumped- in timing. Ranjit Kapoor draws the best both
up charge.

from the script and his actors. in Col. Surat

Singh we see a totally different Piyush Mishra
For Vasundhara. Ashwath and Shreepad are
perhaps the modern Abhimanyu's entering a

contemporary "Chakravyuha" and with their
death ends Vasundhara's hope for the future.

from his Laloo seen in "Holi" three days earlier.
Mishra's use of silence is most dramatin and his
well-studied mannerisms consistent Gajraj 830
with his measured speech in Capt Roy's role ef-'
festiver cuts to pieces the so-called prosecution
witnesses. Ashutosh Upadhyay is a perfegtspicish
r and
ture of a detestable Capt Ka

The production bears Rajinder Nath's neat and
clean signature but somehow. in spite of the
usual competent performances by S. M. Zaheer.
d
ecte
proj
is
ingh
ant
Balv
dar
Sube
i's
aarth
Vid
Subhash Gupta. H. S. Kulkarni and Sanjeev
systhe
st
again
sh
angui
olled
contr
his
with
wel
John. and Averee Chaurey's best efforts to get
.
m
e
t
under Vasundhara's skin. the production fails to
establish a meaningful rapport with the audience.

All the time one is reminded of Uttara Baokar's
sensitive performance as Vasundhare in Rajlnder
Nath's earlier production of the play.
The Entertainer's presentation of Swadesh

Deepak's

"Court' Marshal"

under

Ranjeet

Kapoor's directiOn is a significant contribution to
Hindi theatre. and the honours must be shared
by the playwright as well as the director.

The play is built round . the own rnarehsl- of
Ramchander (Anil Chaudhry) who has में killed

It is good that in the coming week all these
plays will be presented at the Air Force auditorium in Dhaula Kuan and Vivekanand College in
Shahdara. But Sahitya Kala Parishad would do
well to consider a suggestion: instead of confining the plays to just one week. why not spread
them over a whole year with at least three performances at each location spread over the entire city? The Parishad thus would be helping the
theatre movement in the Capital in more ways
than one.

Members of Drama Evaluation Committee

0
O
O
O

KAVITA NAGPAL
SAROJ VASISHTH
JAI DEV TANEJA
J. N. KAUSHAL

