Redefining beauty in dance

In 1977, I was invited by the Sangeet Natak Akademi to participate in
their festival of Contemporary Indian Dance. I was in search of a theme for
my production, when I happened to visit a dance performance based on a
mythological theme. The performance was not gripping. As a result my
mind wandered away from the performance. I was struck by the fact that

classical dance was focussed on the lives of gods and goddesses and kings
and queen only. Amongst other things I thought these dances projected a
concept of beauty which is essentially "decorative" in character.

How far was this true, I wondered. A string of question ﬂashed through
my mind . Do these . whom we consider ugly, have no beauty ? Is facial and
physical beauty the only attractive thing in the world ? Is the world made
up ofonly beautiful people ? - After all even these kings and gods must have

some ordinary and ugly characters in their kingdom. Why have we then
neglected them ‘in our dances ?
As I stepped out of the theatre . I say the gate-keeper. the hawkers, the
beggars, people rushing on roads with heavy trafﬁc. . . etc. I asked myself
the question why have we refused to see them as our characters in dance?
After all each of them is an individual with his own identity. Each of them
has his own moments of joy and sorrow, his own stories and dreams - is

there nothing in them to give us inspiration? I was convinced that in our
dances, we have neglected the " living man" who is a greater truth than the
gods and kings or we have refused to see the god in that 'man'.
I decided to conceive of a character who is an outcast and one of the
down-trodden in society. He would be the hero of my new composition. The
case of Ramu. the boy brought up by wolves immediately came to my mind.
Here was a character brought up by the animal world, who perished at the
hands of the humans.

My production "WOLF BOY" was centred around an abandoned child
of unwed mother brought up by wolves, who was caught by a passerby and
put in a cage. He was eventually sacrificed by the people to propitiate the
gods of prosperity. This was an unusual theme, and my hero was an
outcast from society.

At another time, I happened to visit the graveyard just behind Bahadur

Shah Zafar Marg. Hundreds of graves dot the yard in all their grimness, but
the graveyard is surrounded by trees and thick foilage and peopled by

peacocks. Strange was my feeling standing amongst graves and the
abundance of nature. As I stood there, I was overcome by a curious feeling
about death. mixed with fear and anxiety. Turning back I was back on
Bahadur Shar Zafar Marg with all its chaotic traffic. speed. the multitude
of life where death would take over a man anywhere, anytime. The visit gave
!
me the theme of "AN’I‘IM ADHYAY" - We dance life, why not death

