I relate these two incidents to illustrate how I have increasingly felt that.
as a sensitive artist, I cannot remain aloof from the life around me. There
are many internal journeys that I make, many issues that shake my mind
and heart, too many things that stir me as an artist of contemporary times.
It is obvious that such themes cannot be treated in the classical idiom.
Inspite of manyefforts in that direction, the use ofa classical style to project
a contemporary theme or idea has never succeeded. The classical style
cannot project contemporary or individualistic themes, simply because it
does not have the vocabulary to do so. Its language belongs to the ethos of
classical literature, archetypical characters larger than life , romantic and
divine experience - how can it deal with mundane life and the experience of
ordinary individuals? Any such effort succeeds not only in mutilating the

classical language, but is also unfair to the modern theme. A contemporary
theme demands a contemporary treatment and body language.
The task of the modern choreographer is very complex and very
comprehensive. He has no vocabulary or literature to fall back on. He has
to visualize completely the whole production - its theme line, the break- up
of scenes , the music, costumes , sets and of course , the movements. While

he may take help from experts of lighting, music and costumes, the entire
creative effort and the visualisation is his. In many was it is similar to
theatre, where the onus of the production is mainly on the director. But an
important difference is that the drama-director uses a script as a base for
his production. I have to create even my own script. And this brings me to
another important point. For me, the use ofwords in dance is a very delicate
matter. I feel that dance is basically a visual art, and shifting the experience
from visual to oral with narrations disturbs the receptivity of the audience
- from a visual, 1emotional experience, it tends to become an intellectual or
mental one. I therefore avoid men of literature to write me the script of a
dance production. My medium of communication is the human body. I
think in terms of pure movement and words tend to hamper my inspiration.

Though I don't use words, my work has been in the ﬁeld of a dance - theatre .
With this concept I have choreographed a number of productions . My latest
productions are AN’I‘AR CHHAYA and MUKI—IAN’I‘AR.

Starting with my training under the great Uday Shankar. I have been
working on movements in choreography for the past ﬁve and half decades.

At various stages pf my life I have been greatly inﬂuenced by Kathakali, the
traditional dances, martial arts. Chhau dance. Western Modern dance and
the movements of every day life. I feel that now I am able to use the body
as a medium of expression, without any "style" or typical "form". As the

word in modern poetry. as colour and line in modern painting, I use
movement without any system or language. in dance. Intiution and
inspiration is the starting point in my choreography. The form follows later.

