lnclian-Ness in Indian Threatre
Forms

Prof. BM. Shah

Director National School of Drama

ed, photographed and documented in a
scientific way both for archival purposes and for use by the practicing
theatre work.

Seventies have been the exclting
decade as far as theatre is concerned.
Under the project Apprentice Fellows
We had seen the emergence of a new
opting for direction course were requirkind of theatre which strived to go to
ed to work in the particular region for
roots of our threatrical traditions. Proover a year actively participating in the
minent
playwrights
used
various process of produ
ction in the natural
elements of the traditional and folk
environment, interview prominent pracforms in their writings and the directors
titioners, record and photograph the
employed these innovations in their
performances, tudy the socio-econoproductions We had a chance to witmic constraints controlling the perforness some very significant works by
mers, religious ethos and common
directors like B.V Karanath, Kavalam
features in various stories performed by
Narayan Panniker,
Habib
Tanvir, traditional troupes.
Rattan Thiyam, Jabbar Patel, Rajinder
Nath, etc. But most of the others were
First such study as Pilot Project
either found groping in the dark or
was taken up in Kerala in collaboration
just going folksy because it was the ’in
with the School of Drama, Calicut
। thing' at the moment.
University at the John Mathai Center,
Trichur, under the supervision of Prof.
A study of the various folk and
G. Shankara Pillai. Two ofthe NSD
traditional forms revealed that these
Scholars, Waman Kendrea nd H. M. B hattaforms were also fast degenerating under
charya, studied Padayani, Theyyam
the influence of TV
and Cinema. and Mudiyettu form
s for about a year.
National School of Drama decided to
They have interviewed about 100 artists
launch a pilot Project to study folk/ in
the age group of 1 0 years to 80 years.
traditional forms in depth and discern
They have travelled with them through
various elements of Indian-ness in the villa
ges and temples. Recorded 80
Indian Theatre which could be recordi hours of music and dance performan-

