A Night Among the Palms

Was it a Naam Ghar-bedecked with
flowers and burnings and electric bulbs
for a Bihu festival in some village in
Assam or a Ramlila stage in the suburbs
of some town in North India or a feStive
location for a Joratta or Yakshagana
performance in rural Karnataka?
The scene was familiar but this was
a village in Kerala Ghat area with low
hills and its typical vegitation and trees.
I had gone there to watch a whole night
performance of Padayani on my first
visit to Kerala. The weather was sultry
but tall coconut and palm trees were
swaying momentarily in the faint even-

Road-side shops were
ing breeze.
gearing up for the night long business

various elements of ludlan Theatre
available in those folk form and which
are useful to rejuvinate the modern
theatre movement. The project envisa-

ged was not, yet another, workshop orperformance based on some folk form
but a deep study of topograph r. people,
religious beliefs, economic conditions.
governing those folk forms and also
various legends versions, styles of such
performances. The scholars were not
confined to interviewing some artists
or browsing through the available books
and reach conclusions. They were supposed to live with the artists, audiences, and travel extensively to record,
photograph and interview as many persons as possible. Bring out a detailed
book on these experiences, mount

exhibitions

and present some

play

based on this experience.

of tea/coffee and eatables‘

J.N. Kaushal
Observer, Pilot Project.

Waman Kendre has been working
in this region for over one year now
Haren Hhattacharya alongwith four
scholars of school of Drama, Trichur
under the guidence of G. Shankara
Pillai on the Pilot Project started by the
National School of Drama, to study.
dOCUment and record various folk forms
at the grass root level and identify

Performance was, probable like any
other folk/traditional performance under
such conditions. But I could see how
religion worked on our lives. Padayani.
was a traditional form used to train

soldiers.

The movements were vigor-

ous and intricate to keep them fit and

alert and they were supposed to carry!
huge masks and head-gears to prove
their sterdiness.

In this performance a

