Kadarnanitta

1000 black-white photographs, colour

‘Ramchandra had come on a sort of

transpirancies. Recorded urnpteen hours

Pilgrarnage to his village and was sing-

of music, interviewed scores of artists,
walked miles to reach remote places of
performance, watched exclusive rituals,
watched varied audience reacting to
such performances, slept in the countryards of the temples, back-yards of the
houses, bus terminals, paddy fields.
They have done tremendous work. They
have been a part of a pioneering
project.

ing in praise of the village deity along"With probably the most illiterate one
from the village. There was no wonder
if a person subscribing to the communist idiology who abhore all religion
would be acting asa God in the evening
pe rlo rrna n ce .

Patromax in the back yard was. the
light for the artists making up and paint~iUg masks and head-gears. They use
vegitable colours and tree-bark for
head-gears. They tuck small Mashals
in the huge rnaks to provide lights. The
stories are derived from religious books
and legends. It is a community performance everybody participating physically/emotionally in them. Performance
ends around 3 am. Everyday the performing time will increase and on the last
day it will end long after sun rise.
Artists and the audience who have not
gone to their homes sleep on the
ground. I am talking to Waman and
Haren through the night regarding
their experience. Waman and Haren
have toured extensively in the region
studying Theyyarn, Padayani and other
allied forms. They have taken more than

Pinkish light in the east inform that
it is time for our bus to take up to
town. My first night in the ldyllic setting is ever and I am looking forward to
three more I would be able to spend
here. Waman and Haren have already
spent about 100 nights in such settings
wish I had more time......l envy them ......

झुंड

poet laureate of Kerala

More than fifty years ago, in the
West, research work started in the field
of Visual arts and theatre. The aim of
those works was to find out new ways
and means of expression for better
communication. People in various fields
felt that with the rapid development of
science and industrialisation there is a
chance of missing the cultural roots of
respective nations. So not to loose
that cultural roots in fact to enrich
them, the search began in the fields,
of arts. And naturally sources for them
were the rituals, traditional forms,
religion and different traditional pattern
Due to their hard
of social events.
working and passsion and enthusiasm
some of the Western theatre workers
succeeded in finding out new medium
and form for better communication.
When their own sources exhausted then
they have utilised Indian sources and
rnanv of them utiltsed these sources to
to create new aesthetics and fresh theories in theatre field. Even now many
west people are found working in vari-ous rural areas of India.

Waman Kendre

Scholar, Pilot Project.

