In India before last few decadeS,
some scholars and theatre workers

own identical theatre and steps began

began to work on traditional, classical

coming forward for finding out indegenious theatre.

and folk arts for finding out medium for better communication but

In India we have variety of tradition-

unfortunately

this

realization

hap-

pened only after some westerners have
picked up the elements of Indian tradition and created new theories and
aesthetics in theatre. Any way we
must thank to such scholars and theatre
workers for their realization even at a
later stage.

As we know that after the birth of
modern Indian theatre, we were happy
to say that we have our own theatre
but that happiness was not long lasting.
With the passing of the time with out our
notice western theatre had dominated
our modern theatre and what ever our
own was lost in the midst of western

dominance. The habit of looking to
west for theories and plays became an
integral part of our brain, But when
theatre in west has reached to a stagnant situation we also reached at
stagnency level. Due to long gap of
inactivity some of our old friends felt
that no this will not continue more and
we should began to find out our own

integrative theatre. We should have our

al, classical and folk art forms and even
before modern theatre movement we
were having such a rich tradition. But
with modernization we missed the
the links with our tradition which was
richest at its time and that caused us a
great loss. Any way, some of the scholars and few practical theatre workers
realized the strength, dynamism and
power of our traditional and folk theatre
and some of them honestly tried to
utilise it in the path of creating indegenious theatre. But as we know that what
ever experiments done in this direction
proved fruitfess with exceptations and
nothing solid came out. So called
modern Indian theatre has taken its
like
shape in cosmopolitan cities
Bombay, Culcutta, Delhi etc. which are
culturally baseless places. So naturally
what ever happened here was not born
from Indian soil.

We have seen lot of experiments has
been done on traditional, classical and
folkforrns. If we remember such experiments we shall realize that only vishual

and decorative aspects of traditional andfolk theare has been used as derocrative

pieces in plays. For time being they
seemed to be exciting but failed in
keeping their effect for a long time. Soone can easily understand that it has.
happened because of lack of deep study
in those fields. And after making general survey on work done in these field.
Institutes like Ms D. felt the need of
study in depth of the traditions and it.
resulted in the launching of a Pilot

Project in the field of research on folk.
theatre, and to the best of my little
knowledge this is the first attempt in.
India in this direction.

We were not supposed to study only
the folk forms but study of peoples,
who have kept this tradition going on.
Study of topography, religion, socioeconornical and political background of
those people, their history, time of'
origin of forms, legends behind it, anthropology, ritual and customs of local
society, milieu of performances, belief
of people in such forms, causes of doing it, changing patterns in performances, future of such forms, cause of existence of such forms in particular area
etc., and through which we were supposed to find out the Indian elements

