sane time it is true that we should not

miss links with our traditions. And now
it is hightirne to do that. BecauSe
majorityoftradition has already damaged
and lost, it is very much essential to pick
up theatrical elements from what is still
a live.
The honest purpose behind the eXhibition of materials is that it will help
theatre people to realise that powerfull forms are still existtng in every
part of India. One can find richest varieties of art forms and a serious study is
very much needed before their death.
My true belief is that projects like this
will be able to a create sensitive theatre

personalities. And I am certain that this

project will be able to say that here is
our Indian theatre from and it is not
only a dream but it will be a fact in the

The National School of Drama had
proposed a scheme offinding out I ndia nness in Indian theatre. The scheme

near future.

was named ’Pilot Project' as it was a

Let us hope for that by

sacrifice of intensive work.
I am thanking from the bottom of
my heart to Prof. B.M. Shah, N.S.D.
Director and my respectable staff members for gividg me a great challenge.
And I am really feeling proud that I got
a man like Prof. G. Sansara pillai as a
guide. I thanks him also. I am thanking

all my friends who helped me in my
work in this project and those who
worked with me. Finally I must thank
all performers 0f theyyarn, rnudiyettu
and padayani and local scholars who

have helped me directly or indirectly in
my work, thanks to all who helped us in
putting this exhibition.

हंडे

not merely front reading books or sitting
in a place and collecting informations
but practically living with them, reacting with them, interviewing them and
documenting all possible things and
collecting authentic inforrnations from
people. I am very glad to say that I
Could manage to do all the things which
mentioned above and I could able to
form a method of new approach towards study of these forms. It sounds
funny that we should study
about
tradion when man is reaching at hight
in scientific development. But at the

pioneering effort to help study of folk
and traditional theatres of different
regions of India in a manner that the
constituents of folk—lore and the ritual
bases may be extracted. It is this extraction, it was surmised, would explain
lndianness.
Year before last year, two exstudents, Warnarn Kendre and l, was
sent to Kerala for the purpose. We
stayed in Kerala for year a watching,
observing and noting down our observations in terms of writings, photographs, slides and solid materials used
in various folk performances of Kerala.

We were particularly interested in
studying three folk ritual performances: Theyyarn, Modiyettu and Padayanti.
Our observations were systernatized
and consisted of not only the details of
the performances but also the socioeconomic background of the performances. It also included the study of
the ethos and rnileu of the folk and
their habits and cultural conventions

which were represented in their perfor-

