A Short Note
THEYYAM :——

Theyya m is a form of North Kerala
from Canannore District. The word
TH EYYAM is derived from the Sanskrit

word DAIVAM, means God. It is a total
process wherein the performer is being

Tottom is first part of performance,
where the performer narrates the life
history of a particular God or Goddess
in detail, in which the duration is between two to eight hours. In this part of
the Ritual the performer uses minimum
Costume and Make-up and towards
the end he innocates the God through
his dance.

transformed in to (God) a Deity. It is a
Ritual form adapted by the Malabarians
of North to worship different Gods and
Goddessess as they believed that would
bring the entire Community in prosperity and well being. The major reasons
which led to such worship was the
villager's belief in superstition and fear
from natural catastrophes.

The performer is an aborginal, generaly from the community of Vannans,
Malayans and Velans. Though the performer is belongs to the community of
lower castes, yet he is worshiped as a
Deity on the day of performance by
other people; and after the performance
over, again he is treated as before in a
neglected way.

The Theyyarn performance is subdivided into three distinct units namely
Tottam, Vellatam and Theyyarn. The

Ve/latam is the second part of the
Ritual wherein the former uses extensive

Costume

and Make-up.

Vellatam is

generally takes place in the worship of
Hero Theyyams, where the performer
depicts the youth of that perticular
Deity. Here the performer generally is

M u d i yet t u : ~—

Mudiyettu is a form of Central Kerala
particularly of Cochin District. It is performed in praise of Mother Goddess
Bharda Kali. It is perform by higher cast

people like lVlarars who are devoted to
Temple Services only.

The performance is begin with a
Figure Drawing of Bhadra Kali. In this
form the famous Myth Kali killed
demon Darika, is enacted. The scene is
cornbegin with Narada, reading

plaints against Darika infront of Siva,
about the

dernonis activites of that

Demon. After this Darika and Kali is

Kalari Payettu.

interoduced separtly then two comic
characters take oevr the charge called
Koirnbador and Kooli. At the end the

Theyam is the final unit of the perfor-

climax of the Myth is enacted through

mance where in the performer wears
elaborated Costumes and Make-up than
in the first two units. Here in this units
the performer dances vigorously with
the intensive rythems of Cendas. And
while dancing in the midst of devotees
he get tranced and becomes God and
blesses the devotees. At the end he
recites a dialogue of happiness while
blessings which is very sirniliar to
Bharat Vakya of Sanskrit Theatre.

the fight between Darika and

required to be well versed in the art of

Dana-

vendra (his brother) on one side and Kali
and Kooli on other side; and lastly Kali
takezoff the Headgears of both the
Demons as symbol of death. And
the performance ends with a Ritual of
blessings.

