LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT
Henry H ewes 1956
Most people live in several planes of existence. There is the plane of impulse, in
which we respond spontaneously and without reflection. There is the plane of

society, in which we treat with, impress, and/or decieve other people. There is
the plane of compromise, in which we tolerate the undesirable rather than risk a
correction. There is the plane of contemplation, in which we search hopefully for
the truth of what we are.

And there is the plane of escape and dreams.

In ”Long Day's Journey into Night" the late Eugene O'Neill has shown himself,
his elder brother, his father, and his mother as they slip back and forth from one
plane to another in a grim dance of life.

He doesn't sentirnentalize.

He doesn't

rnoralize. He blames no outside agency for the family's collective failure As he
has his mother explain it in the play, “None of us can help the things life has done
to us. They're done before you realize it, and once they're done they make you do
other things until at last everything comes between you and what you'd like to be,
and you've lost your true self forever." Thus, “Long Day's Journey into Night" is
not so much a “play" as a continuously absorbing exegesis of Mary Tyrone's line,
“The past is the present, isn’t it ? It's the future, too. We all try to lie out of that
but life won’t let us." O'Neill steers as far from conscious plots and phony resolutions as he can.

In their place he offers

character development.

Each of the quartet advances from

morning's surface jocularity into evening’s soul-shaking revalations of self—truth.

Each tries to blame others for his or her failures.

Mary Tyrone takes to narcotics

with excuses of her son‘s health, her husband’s unwillingness to spend money on a
good doctor

instead of the quack who first gave her morphine after a difficult

child birth, and his failure to supply his family a decent home life. But by the time
she's finished we realize that this simple convent-bred child was never equipped to
face the terrors of life outside. Like wise, James Tyrone justifies his penury as wise
and considerate, and than harks back to a poverty-stricken childhood. But though it
is never quite stated we finally come to suspect that an incurable self-centredness

is

at the heart of this famous actor's troubles. As for the two sons, Edmund (pseudonym
for the author) confesses that only on certain occasions at sea did he feel “the joy of
belonging to a fulfillment beyond men's lousy, pitiful, greedy fears and hopes and
dreams". " He will always be” a stranger who never feels at home, who does not
really want, and is not really wanted, who can never belong, who must always be

a little in love with death l" The other, Jamie, at the height of drunkenness reveals
that while be loves his brother he also has the subconscious wish to destroy him.
All these things O'Neill has put into his play, boldly and directly. The terror it
inspires comes not from the day's events but from the gradual intensifications of its
torment and violence as night moves in. The greatness of the work is apparent also

from the fact of its constant recognition of man's quest for religious ecstacy.

