New Theatre, Hyderabad
Presen ts

AADHEY ADHOOREY
By
Mohan Rakesh

The play depicts the socio-economic predicarnents of an average educated couple;
the struggle between the working wife and her unsuccessful husband; the conflict of two
egos; the disappointments, frustrations and complexes of their children.

Each member

of the family is cut off from the other. It appears that the roots are in the entity called
'FAMILY’ but they have not been able to develop as adjusted individuals.
The story revolves around Savitri, mother of three children and wife of an unsuccesful husband. While managing the ups and downs of a family which has to be saved from
sinking, she is also searching for the complete man.

Her total disillusionment, the resul-

tant despair bordering on the middle claas level of existentialism.
Mahendranath, the husband has no say in the house, he is no better than a servant.
He knows his wife’s friends well. Often revolts against her relations with other men. In a
bid to save face from utter humiliation and despair he quits the house every week-end but
returns after a few hours accepting his fate.
Bini the eldest daughter, at the first opportunity she gets a sympathiser, runs away
with Manoj. It is cnly in her, that Savitri finds a sympathiser.
Ashok, the only son is whiling away his time in collecting the photographs of film

stars and IS on the lookout to find a suitable opportunity to leave the house. He has some

sympathy for the father but detests his mother and her men friends.
Kini, the youngest daughter is totally unattached with the family and is very selfish
and inquisitive about sex life. She often frets in the house against family criticism from
others.

In order to bring out the similarities of. human experiences the writer has used an
effective theatrical device by making a single actor play, four men i.e, Mahendrana’th, Singhania, Jagmohan and Juneja, who come into the life of Savitri, The Character, which
gives you the introduction of the play, also has been enacted by the same actor.

