Ritayan Chittaranjan
Presents

SWAPNA SHAMBHABAA
By
Tamal Das

This drama bears the history of an ultimate Doom of Family and its revival from

being completely extinguished. The four brothers and the eldest wife, these five persons
consist this small and neat family. The eldest wife is its very soul and burning spirit, she
burns thither like glowing lamp.
The family bears an aristocratic air. The eldest wife being the mistress of the house,
holds the helrns of affairs of the domesticitis with a steady hand. She imbibes in her the
subling qualities of an ideal womanhood. She looks towards the brothers of her husband
as her sons. Especially she endows the youngest one with her motherly love and affection who is an artist. The eldest wife is a blazing inspiration behind her creative talents.
Her husband is a businessman in partnership. This is the picture of this fair family.
But man is at the mOney of an unseen and unknown power called fate'. This fate
soon comes thither with a diobolical shape of a whiling tempest to wipe out its very existence. The dark shadow of this invinicible power soon overcasts this family.
One day the eldest brother comes back home, broken hearted, dejected and forlorn.
His partner deprives him of his share and thus he is thrown head long to the door of
poverty. Moreover his second brother becomes a victim at the hands of police on the
charge of some criminal activities.
This sudden blow breaks the heart of the eldest wife to pieces.
end of her doom.

But this is not the

The youngest brother, whom she loves most, being unable to bear the

pangs of poverty, becomes mad and the eldest brother also dies soon being run over by
a Taxi. The whole tragedy of his untimely death is the result of a conspiracy of the villains.
But inspite to this anti-current of life the eldest wife keeps allve her nerve.

She

got up again with astounding spirit she comes forward for save this family from being
completely wiped out by the paws of ’Fate'.
She believes that in the midst of darkness, light persists.
rificing her own life.

She proves this by sac-

