Yuwak M andal Nagpur
Presents

Kanchechi Khelani
By
Vasam‘ Kamat

Williams has described his Glass-Menagerie to be a memory play. Really Speaking,
it is a strange mixture of drama, and psychology. Basically, it deals with a continuous
interaction between its characters. Tom obviously is an important character in the play.
He is both a commentator on the play's action and a character in it. The play is actually
constructed in his memory, and he is deeply involved in it.
The tille-phrase concerns only with tho life of Laura who is not so much an idepen—

dent postrait, but on aspect of the control dramatic experience. The real drama here is the
drama of living relationships other elements of this central theme have been more stressed
and emphasized. Actually the dramatic concetration has been on Amanda, the mother, and
not on Laura.

The story revolves around five characters. Out of which one character never comes
before the audience, yet it seems to influence the whole atmosphere of the play. The
characters which appear before us are Amanda, Laura, Tom once Jim 0’ conner. Amanda
is a middle aged woman having two children Laura and Tom. Tom is a youngrnan working as an emplyoyee in a factory. He is not satisfied with the life he is leading. Being
very enthusiastic he is eager to do something extra - ordinary in his life. But his present
position does not permit him to indulge into that luxary. He therefore tries to reconcile

himself by going to movies and bars. Laura, the daughter of Amanda is shy girl and slightly crippled. She has developed some inferiority complex, Amanda is very eager for her
daughter's marriage. She therefore, persists Torn to invite some youngman who could be
her life partner. The house always resounds with tension and excitement.

One day Tom invites his friend Jim 0' connor for dinner. He develops a quick friendship with Laura, and succeeds in removing her inferiority complex. But suddenly the
whole atmosphere changes when Jim 0’ connor tells Laura that he is already engaged with
a girl. Now there starts the final drama. The angry altercation started between Amanda
and Tom and Tom leaves the house like his father.

