Writer’s Note
The falling of a seed is always an innocent act.

What follows is not.

The striving seed

gropes in the dark for its actualisation : struggles, errs, is as often destroyed as realised;
never ﬁnding perfection.

The same happened with this play.

After its tumultuous odessy.

it has evolved to its imperfection.
The original idea, ﬁve years back, was to write a farce mocking the woman who is endlessly
waiting for her man to come back.
woman wasting herself so foolishly.
for what it is.

The intention wasn’t bad at all.

I did not like the

I wanted her to give up her illusions and see reality

I became very nervous when, upon close examination, I found that she was

deeply serious about the stand she had taken, and that she would not budge. She tenaciously
held on to all that she had learnt to be the truth.

Not only would my mockery be wasted,

it would be insensitive and trivial juxtaposed to her persistent rhetoric idealising.
Inspite of the reality being overwhelmingly obvious, why doesn’t she see the truth ? Inspite
of having alternatives (whenever she has) why doeSn’t she break away frOrn her situation ?
After the holocaust of the thirties and forties in Germany, a similar questiOn was raised
time and again.

guards.

In most of the concentration camps, Jews totally outnumbered the armed

Why didn’t they revolt ? Wasn’t it because of the fears, the superstitions, the

myths and the lies dinned in their- minds ?

Wasn’t it because of the distortion of the very

tool of revolt : the Mind ?

Therefore, rather than mocking the woman-wasted, it became imperative to understand the
woman-betrayed.

Betrayed by reality, by life, by the very ideals she has iternalised and

nurtured and transmitted further.

Her mind revealed a plethora of myths.

Myths about men, about women, about ‘the other

women’ about marriage, about children, about life, about death. The ancient myths innocently propagated through rituals. The modern stories about the contemporary women
reinforcing the ancient myths.

So thorough was her conditioning and so absolute the

internalisations that she becomes the tool of her own destruction rather than coming to
grips with the unpleasant and demeaning truth

After all, the mind has its own laws.

As

a friend ; who was going through a nervous break-down put it, “ I chose to go neurotic
rather than to accept my limitations ” .

