ABOUT THE WRITER : _ r
M E ERA KANTE(Born in Srinagar, Kashmir, 1958.)
Has so far published Hyphen, Kagazi Burj and Gali Dulhanwali
(collections of short stories), Tatah Kim, Urf Hitler and Ek koi tha

kahin nahin-sa

(novels), lharnrig,

Nepathya Raag,

Bhuvaneshwar dar Bhuvaneshwar, Kandhe par. baitha tha
shaap, Huma kc ud jane do, Ant haazir ho and Punarapi Divya
(plays). Antarrashtriya Mahila Dashak aur Hindi 'Patrakarita
_
(research work), Naam thauska Aasmani and Aise jamaa rail ka khel (children's
literature), Edited Meera: Mukti ki Saadhika.
. Some of these plays have been translated and published in English, Marathi, and
Telugu also.
’
'
‘
Awards: Mohan Rakesh Sarnman, 2003 of Sahitya Kala Parishad for Nepathya '
Raag (ﬁrst prize); Seth Govind. Das Samrnan, 2003 to lhamrig; Arnbika Prasad ,
Divya Smriti Puraskar, 2004 to the novel Tatah Kim; Dr Gokul Chandra Ganguly
Puraskar 2008 to Bhuvaneshwar dar Bhuvaneshwar; Mohan Rakesh Samman,
2008 of Sahitya Kala Parishad for the play Uttar Prashna (ﬁrst prize): and
Sahityakar Samrnan 2005-06 of Hindi Akademi, Delhi. ८

Staged: lharnrig at the Kalidas Samaroh, Ujjain, 2003; Nepathya Raag at Bharat
Rang Mahotsav, Delhi .2004; Kaali Barf and Divya at Sri Ram Centre, Delhi;
Bhuvaneshwar dar Bhuvaneshwar at Varanasi; Ant haazir ho and Bahati vyatha …

Satisar at Jarnrnu.

३

Editor at NCERT, New Delhi

-

‘
.

Home address: B 95 Gulrnohar Park, New Delhi 110-049.
३ - ‘
५
"
Teleome2011-26514586; Mobile: 9811335375 Website: WWw.rneerakant.com

About the Play
According to the realistic backdrop of this play, Poet Kumardasa was the ruler of

Singhaladweep. inspired by Kalidasa’s Raghuvamsham he penned
Jaanakiharanarn that was praised by Kalidasa unequivocally. Kalidasa then
reached Singhaladweep to meet his brother-in-verse. A sensitive and imaginative
individual, he Wanted to appreciate and experience the life and mores of the new

realm before meeting its monarch. This he did, dressed up as a commoner. As it
happened, one night he ventured into dwelling of courtesan, Kamini, who happened
to be Kumardasa beloved. On a wall, there hung a part of shloka by Kumardasa. A
huge rewards had been announced for anybody completing this shloka. The quirk in
this condition wat that if Kamini completed this shloka Kumaradasa would wed her.

Kaidasa completed this shloka for Kamini, which, unfortunately, he bartered for his
doom-Kamini poisoned him. When she came to know that he was Kalidasa, the

Poet Laureate ofAryavarta, she committed suicide. Unable to bear the tragic end of
his revered brother-in-verse in his own kingdom, Kumaradasa too took his own life.
Thus cam about the departure of two of the greatest poet at one go-in the same fire.

