Frederich MAX MUELLER
“There are a number of great souls in the West who undoubtedly, are wellwishers of
India, but I am not aware of one in Europe who is a greater wellwisher. He is not only a
wellwisher, but also a deep believer in Indian philosophy and religion . ... Though all his life,
he has lived with and steeped himself in ancient Sanskrit literature, the India of the Professor’s
imagination is not simply that which resounded with chanting of the vedas and from which
sacriﬁcial smoke rose to the sky ...... he is also ever alert to whatever in the way of new developments is happening in every corner of India and keeps himself well posted about them” ......

SWamt' Vivekananda

Frederich Max Mueller took a keen interest in most of the religious and the social reform
movements in the India of his times. He was in constant touch with Brahmo Samaj, Prathana
Samaj, the Theosophical Society, and also with most of the great thinkers and reformers of
the time, like Debendra Nath Tagore, Malabari, Keshabchandra Sen, Pratap Chandra
Majoomdar, and Raja Radha Kant Deb. He was a link in the dialogues between the Indians
and the Europeans who had sympathies with the Indian cause Therefore, he sparked controversies in India and Europe by offending the traditional and the established element in India

and by alienating and aﬂ‘ronting the fanatic and the supercilious attitude in England.
choices to the end remained with what he thought was human truth and right.

But his

DIRECTOR’S NOTE

The play tries to capture a segment of history and therefore the presentation takes the
form of a collage—a collage of simultaneous events, conﬂicting attitudes, clashing values, the
confrontation of vested interests which all together shaped the sum total of Frederich Max
Mueller’s tangible work and which reflected the mental, emotional and spiritual odyssey
within the man.

Source Material :—

1.
2.

“I POINT TO INDIA” by F. Max Mueller. Edited by Nanda Mukerjee.
“SCHOLAR EXTRAORDINARY”. by Nirad Chaudhari.

3.

Max Mueller’s Autobiography.

