The Competition and its Organisers
The All India All Language Drama Competition claims a deﬁnite following
among those keenly connected with drama as a medium of art.

However,

the

fundamental object of its introduction which is beyond the mere stage portayals
of human behaviour, is gaining momentum only slowly. The success of our
endeavour is therefore, yet partial.

This All India Competition enters the seventh year of its existence this
summer. It was introduced by us in 1968. Our club, established in 1933, was
originally set up for entertainment and socio cultural exchanges of its members
but it is now largely oriented towards activities promoting creative talent for the
beneﬁt of society instead offering mere passive avenues of subjective entertainment.
The organisation is run on funds realised by membership subscription
and occasional donations from wellwishcrs. We regularly organise the popular
Duplicate Bridge Tournment, Winter Chess Festival, All Delhi Table Tennis
Tournament, Open Carrorn Competition. Our social and cultural activities

form the primary channel of intercourse with local people and the frequency of
such function is maintained. Literary and entertainment activities of the Club
are restricted to members only. In dramatics, our performances have proved
popular. In addition, we organise the local One Act Drama Competition,
and the All India Competition of full length plays in the diverse Indian
Languages.

The plays presented at this annual feature comprise of a selection made
from as large a cross section of Indian languages as possible. Due emphasis is
laid on inviting the participating teams from their respective states to provide a
more realistic representation than merely putting up performances of local
outﬁts. We are sure this has helped us convey our message far and wide, to
encourage communication of ideas and customs among those who would otherwise have been insulated to their respective localities.

But our endeavour has its bleaker side too. Despite our assistance, the
participating terms have felt the ﬁnancial and physical strains of moving their
players and effects for merely one show and many talented parties have found
these teams none-too-inviting. Public reSponse in the capital to
artistic

presentations is also known to be unpredictable and for many, the inhibition of
a language barrier has weighed against a favourable response.

We, the

organisers have, therefore, borne substantial erosion of our

ﬁnancial

meagre

