Assam Shilpi Divas Samity, Assam
presen ts

Agni Pariksha
by
Phani Talukdar

./

The play depicts how a youth’s sacriﬁce kindled the spirit of ﬁghting
corruption—among his friends -— who temporarily fell victim to the intrigue of
a blackmarketeer.

Anal, the youthful hero was shy by nature. On the

other

hand his friends Biplab and others as well as his girl-friend were very much
vocal against various corruptions prevalent in society.
Anal’s father was a social worker, but his blind affection for his son
brought in him a sense of selﬁshness. The crooked blackmarketeer (Mahajan)
with his agent Rabati took this opportunity and offered him help for higher
studies of Anal in dramatics, for which he had a nack.
Anal’s father agreed to keep mum even when the blackmarketeer’s truck
was caught by these youthful enthusiasts. He even got the truck released. Meanwhile the crooked blackmarketeer threw a snare to keep these youngmen of
the locality engaged by repairing the Natchghar (stage) of the town and bringing
a beautiful nautchgirl with the help of his agent Rabati. He provided money
for all these.

On the fateful night, when the blackmarketeer inaugurated the dramatic
performance on the stage, he arranged to get several trucks loaded with rice—
out of the village to send outside the country. As soon as the drama on the
stage started, the blackmarketeer with his associate Rabati pressed Anal’s father
to go with the 1 st truck till it reaches the Checkpost and help it cross the checkpost and return after that to sit among the audience of the drama.

Anal, who was in charge of light projection and direction of the drama
overheard the discussion. But he was handling the light from above a ladder
and a romantic scene was going on in stage. There was a clash in his mind and
he got down from the ladder on which he was standing to project light. The
stage suddenly became dark, the other members rushed in to see that Anal was
getting down. They insisted him to see the drama atleast for sometime Anal
again started the projection and keeping it ﬁxed went out of the Green-room to
follow the blackmarketeer and his father.

