Fine Arts Academy, Hyderabad
presen ts

“Khaamosh Adaalath Jari Hai”
by
Vijay 'I‘endulker

In the village hall where the play is to be staged arrives Miss Benare a
School teacher and Samant a villager followed by Balu Rokde, lawyer Sukhatme,
science student Ponkshe, and Mr. Kashikar and his dominating wife. Later
comes Karnik, an experimental theatre actor Professor Darnle, though informed,
hasn’t arrived. Mrs. Kashikar suggests a rehearsal but the atomic weapon trial
has already been enacted many times, so Sukhatme proposes that they could
bring new and imaginary case against someone, which in theory of drama is
called visual enactment. The idea is approved and the mock court arranged. It
is agreed that the judge, lawyers etc. will be the same. Benare is to be the
accused. Ponkshe announces that on suspicion of a grave crime Benare has been
arrested and will be tried. The atmosphere is very sombre. The crime is infanticide.

The players agree that all court proprieties should be observed and the
proceedings conducted in all seriousness. Examination of the accused begins.
Ponkshe says that ' Benare parsues men and sometimes acts as though she is
mentally unsound. Karnik says, not he, but Rokde

has

seen the accused in a

compromising situation. Rokde testiﬁes that he had seen Benare with Prof.
Damle in this house at nightfall. The mock court session warms up. Samant,
the next witness, testiﬁes an imaginary conversation between Prof. Damle and
a woman, the latter saying she would commit suicide if he abandone her. Benare

interrupts and says that Samant is telling lies and Samant admits that everything he is saying is out of a book. Benare is not prepared to continue the mock
session. The players are excited and insist that the case should continue.

Mrs. Kashikar forcibly brings an unwilling and terriﬁed Benare to the
witness box. To establish and maintain Court decorum Sukhatme and Mr.
Kashikar put on their gowns. Benare is silent. She neither takes the oath nor
answers questions about her name, age, number of marriage proposals etc.
Mrs. Kashikar as next witness says that jobs for women lead to corruption in
society. When women get the pleasures of marriage without its responsiblities,
they don’t marry. To prove her point she says that Benare has made overtures
to Rokde and other men. Rokde testiﬁes that he had

slapped Benare when she

