had tried to be free with him and later threatened to harm him if he disclosed
what had happened. Ponkshe recalls Benare’s invitation to him to a restuarant

where she had asked him to marry her because she was pregnant. Then he had
seen a bottle of Tik-20 roll out of her purse, despite Benare’s protestations, he
says that Prof. Darnle was named by her as the man responsible for her
pregnancy. Karnik says he witnessed the meeting between Benare and Rokde.
When Rokde expressed his inability to marry Benare due to his attachment to
Mrs. Kashikar and also because Benare’s condition would invite slander, he

was slapped by her. Karnik discloses that from Benare’s cousin he learnt that
with her
she had attempted suicide at the age of 15 for disappointment in love
maternal uncle. The judge, Mr. Kashikar also gives evidence and says that when
he had gone to visit Nana Saheb Shinde, the famous leader, he heard him
telephone orders for the dismissal of an unmarried pregnant teacher. Benare
tries to take Tik-20 but Karnik strikes away the bottle. Sukhatme says that
Benare’s sins, infanticide and unmarried motherhood are shameful and pleads
that she be given deserving punishment. Benare says that life is a betrayal and
a drudgery but still precious. She admits she was attracted to her uncle but
was unaware that the involvement was

sinful. When fulﬁlment was denied, she

had attempted suicide but had not succeeded, later, she fell in love again, but
the man enjoyed but ultimately deserted her. She now carried his child and
desired a father and a home for the unborn baby. Kashikar pronounces judgeher misconduct
ment. He says Benare’s sins cannot be forgiven. As a teacher
live
was a danger to the future generation. By way of punishment, she should
protests against the
but the child in her womb was to be destroyed. Benare
sentence and sobs tormentedly.
players realise
There is a knocking on the door. Three people enter. The
Benare by saying
that it is time for the show. They try to rouse the motionless
game.
she should not be very sensitive as it was all a sheer
They go into the next room.

The

sympathetic Samant,

unable to voice

exits.
his feelings places a green cloth parrot near Benare and
Mirza Qadir Ali Baig
Direction
CAST
Pramila Chowhan
Miss Benare
Mohd. Munawar Ali
Kashikar
Usha Singh
Mrs. Kashikar
Syed Ali
Sukhatme
S.A. Majeed
Karnik
Tataar Khan
Ponkshe
Suresh Gupta
Samanth
Thakur Ashok Singh
Rokde
Arun Mor
Villagers
V idya S agar
S.A. Raheem

