South Eastern Railway Institute, Orissa
presents

“Maro Mahenjodaro”
by
Shri N. R. Nandi

Mahenjodaro is the name by which we refer to a civilisation that existed
several centuries ago and suddenly perished. In this story it is a symbol of the
extinction of a civilisation. A scientist referred to as a Professor here, analyses
the present society with a view to envisage its future : whether it will end up as
another Mahenjodaro or whether it could be reformed into a socialistic utopia.
He discovers an embryo of the present society in the lives of eight individuals
whose character and fate constitute the body of this story and serves as a model
for the Professor’s thesis.
According to the Professor’s theory, the present society is broadly divided
into categories, the rich like Kotiswarayya, the capitalist, and the poor. He
divides the poor into two again, those who are reconciled to their fate and to
the social code like Bikshalu and middle classes who aspire to improve their lot.
The middle classes have two categories again, those who attempt to jump into
prosperity by compromising their moral values, like Parandhamayya, and those
who wish to change the social order and redistribute wealth, like Bhushan the
revolutionary. The Professor includes also a doctor who represents a practitioner
of technological progress, a lawyer, as a specialist in a ﬁeld which is designed
to uphold and perpetrate the social code, and two women, 'I‘ulasi (daughter of
Bhikshalu) and Janaki (wife of Parandharnayya) as two helpless victims of the

capitalist.

The characters in the story are introduced through an interview

with their souls after they have all perished in a confrontation between the
capitalist and the revolutionary. The causes for this catastrophe are analysed by
a ﬂashback into the events that preceded it.

Parandharnayya observes that the doctor and the lawyer are prospering
the
out of Kotiswarayya the capitalist by providing their expertise. He feels
only
urge to get rich quickly but discovers that in return he has to sacriﬁce his
asset, the virtue of his wife. He attempts to ward oﬁ” the disaster by seeking
to see
'I‘ulasi in substitution. 'I‘ulasi loves Bhushan and is intelligent enough
Kotis—
through the game of Parandhamayya. An attempt on her modesty by
warayya brings Bhushan to her defence, but Kotiswarayya with his lawyer
the
manages to twist this episode into an attempt on his life by Bhushan. In

