Aj antrik, Chittaranj an
presen ts

Ekadasi Bairagi
Banshi Mukhopadhayay

(Based on Sarat Chandra Chaterjee’s Story)

Kalidaha is a village in undivided Bengal, predominated by the Brahmins.
Apurba, a youth of this village comes back after his graduation and sets himself with the task of bringing about regeneration of the country. India is then
under foreign domination. So Apurba and his companions solemnly vow to
free Mother India from the shackles of the English foreigners. By way of
preparation, they include in their programme not only recitation of the
“GEETA” and reading of the “CHANDI” scripture, but also the practice
of self-discipline and prohibition of smoking.
Although Smritiratna and his company of the Brahmin-dominated village,
bear with Apurba, they do not tolerate the activities of Apurba. It does not
take them long to come to open conﬂlct. On the other hand Apurba’s
companions raise subscriptions to set up a library in the village. In this affair,
they are greeted with apparent sympathy of the Brahrnins, but they do not
obtain their hearty co-operation or approval. This does not deter Apurba’s
company in their venture. They go to other village Baruipur to collect
subscription. There they expect a heavy amount as subscription from Ekadashi
who has been excommunicated by the Brahmins of Kalidaha. But they are
non-plussed at the behaviour of miserly Ekadashi. They witness readily how
low Ekadashi can stoop to exact payment of the interest on the sum lent out
by him. But Apurba, the leader of the company, does not fail to notice an
object of wonder lying concealed behind the outer frame of this strange man.
He does not cheat any body. To a widow he returus with interest the money
deposited by her husband, although she fails to produce any document.
But Ekadashi’s miserliness in sparing a few copper coins for subscription
enrages Apurba’s companions. They humiliated Ekadashi so much so that
they do not allow Apurba to drink the water touched by the hand of Ekadashi’s
sister. Ekadashi views with scorn the ostenation of redeeming the country
by throwing her people to the state of the down-trodden. Apurba realises
his mistake and not-with-standing his friends renounce him, he himself drinks
the water offered earlier by Ekadashi’s sister.

Direction

Banshi Mukhopadhayay

