I

I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I -1

ABOUT OURSELVES
Dear Friends,

Here is an occasion for us to introduce ourselves as a group of enthusiastic and

potential stage artistes.

Barring a few, we had all collected from different environments at

Shri Ram Centre for Arts and Culture, New Delhi to complete an acting course by the institu
tion. The acting course has not only equipped us with personal experiences in relation to
the significant social conflict but has also guided us to portray their various facets through
While under
theatre. And so we christened our group under the name "ROOPANTAR".
training we had the privilege to work with Arnar Ganguly, Vijaya Mehta, Cicele Barry,

Panchanan Pathak, Rajendra Nath and others.

We are all indebted to them.

During the

Course of training apart from workshops work, we have staged two plays "Mitl‘iyabhirriari"

Er “Natak Nahin" at Shri Ram Centre Basement 8 HANSAD HWAN I, Pragati Maidan under
the auspices of Shri Ram Centre for Arts 8 Culture.
We stand for eradication of quadruple evils of ignorance, oppression, violence 8

suffering.

We believe that these forces would be effectively met and countered and trans-

fotrned into knowledge, freedom, peace and joy.

With this rnoto we at ROOPANTAR have

come up with a new venture, “JULOOS” by Badal Sarkar. Apart from staging this play on
6th and 7th April, 1981 at Shri Ram Centre Basement in the evening, we have plan to stage
it in different parts of walled city of Delhi and New Delhi. Regarding all our ventures, your

cooperation and suggestians are welcomed.
We believe in an attack on ignorance and superstition a battle against indifference

and apathy and train ourselves for democratic living. We believe that these are forces of
adjustments and concord, that there are human values which transcend the passing values of
c l a s s es .

We have every hope to bring awareness among people and we will be able to partly
quench the thirst of theatre lovers of Delhi with our humble effort.
Lastly, we are grateful to all our advertisers, welwishers and all members for their
cooperation to make the function a success.
We wish our heartiest greetings to all and pray for their prosperity.

P R 0 SA N TA K U M A R B AS U
P re s i d e n t .

w I~ I- I - I - I - I - l

- I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I 4' I - I ‘ - I -

