worth and has no desire himself to rule. Nipunaka,
hie'spy, enters; he has found a Jain monk Jivasiddhi

hostile to the king-he is in reality Chamky’g agent;
the scribe Shakatadas is a real enemy,as is the jweller

' hdanadsa, in whose house are Rakshasa’s wife
.

महँहुँहाँ" .. मैं

J

.

टू.

.a'ﬁt’te»; १८ है
*

३ ~

pew

- child; by good fortune he has secured the Sign“
८

former’s wifc in
a; J. ७ rj, ‘g of Rakshasa, dropped by the
३3० श्या

e Writes a letter, has it copied in good faith by
~ ८ hakatadasa and sealed" with Rakshasa’s teak
hakatadasa is then arrested, but on the point of
'लिय-य-यों impalernent is rescued by Siddharthaka, another of

Chanakya’s'. Spies, who flees to Rakshasa; Jivasiddhi
is banished in igneminy to the same destination, and
Chandanadasa is flung into prison, to await death
for having harboured Rakshasa’s family. Finally, it is
reported that Bhagurayana and others of the court
have 1also flad, news received by Chanakya with

admirable

composure,

emissaries.

३

for

they are

also

his

Act II shows Ralcsﬁasa's counter-plots. Viradha~

gupta, in a ' serpent-charmer’s disguise. bears him
news of ill import; the scheme to murder Chandragupta, as he passed under a coronation arch, has
failed, Vairodhaka. uncle of Malayaketu, who stayed

when his nephew fled and had been crowned also as
lord of half the realm,being slain in lieu of Chandra-

gnpta; Abhayadatta. who offered him poison, has
३ been forced to. drink the draught; the bold spirits, ,

who were to issue from a subterranean passage into
the king’s bedchamber, _ have been detected by
Clianakya through the sight of ants bearing a recent

meal, and] burnt in agony in their hiding place :;
Jivasiddhi is banished, Shakatadasa condemned to
the stake, Chandanadasa to the same fate. The tale
of woe is interrupted by the advent of Shakatadasa
with Siddharthaka, who restores his seal to Rakshasa
saying he) had picked it up at Chandanadasa’s lCHJSC,
and begs permission to remain in his train. Virao‘hsgupta

now

gives

the ' one piece of good news

Cbandragupta is tired of Charlakya. At this moment
Rakshasa is asked if he ‘will buy some precious jewels,
and hastily bids Shakatadasa see to the price, little
knowing that they are the dead Parvataka's ornaments

and sent by Chanakya to entrap him.

