Act III displays Chanakya at his ablest; a fine
scene takes place between him and Chandragupta,
on the score that he has forbidden all feasting
the

without telling

king;

the

monarch finally

upbraids him, the minister taunts him with ingrati.
tude and insolence, resigns office, and leaves in high

dudgeon; none but the chief actors know the whole

is but a rose, and: Rakshasa’s fortunes seem again
fa i r .

In Act IV the bright prospect begins to darken;
Bhagurayana; for the officials who have deSerted to

Malayaketu, explains to that monarch that they
desire to deal direct with him, not Rakshasa; the
latter, they suggest, is no rehal foe of Chandragupta;

ifChanakya were out of the way, there would be ,
nothing to hinder-his allying himself with Chandraéupta. Malayaketu is perplexed. and his doubt
increases when he overheats a conversation betWeen ‘Rakshasa and Viradhagupta ., who bears the
. glad tidings of r the split between the king and
Chanakya; Rakshasa eagerly excl aims that Chandra-

gupta is now in the palms of his hands (hastatala—

gala), a phrase which unhappily lends itself to the
suspicious interpretation that she meditates alliance
with that king. Malayaketu’s converSa‘Lion with
Rakshas a, which ensues, leaves him halaearted for
an advance. for he cannot rid himself of his suspicious
ofthe minister. The 'Act ends with Jivasiddhi’s
admission to see Rakshasa, who asks him in vain for
intelligible advice as to the time for an advance,
receiving in lieu much astrological lore and what

is really a presage of disaster.
This 12 it achieved in पृ Act V,

Firstly Jivasiddhi

३- approaches Bhaguryana, 'who is entrusted with the
grant of permits to leave the camp, and admits with

{Cigned reluctance—in order to get a permit. that he
fears Rakshasa, who used him formerly when he was
arranging fer the poisoning of“ Parvatalca, but now
“‘16 to 313! him. Malayakelu, who overhears this
is wild with rage: he had deemed his £212“le slain by
Chawakya, and Bhagurayana has great difficulty in
PCfSuading him that Rahshasa’s action might be
deemed justifiable, and that at any rate vengﬁancc

must Wait, Siddharthaka, however now appears 3
स्महैंहध्याटा, caught trying to escape without a passport;

2‘
I

