beaten, he finally gives evidence against Rairshasa
in the shape of letter written in Act I by Shakatadasa
which he asserts he was to hear from Rakshasa to
to Chandragupta, a jewel sealed, like the letter. with

Rakshasa’s seal—one; given by Malayaketu to
Rakshasa and by him “to Siddharthaka for rescuing
Shakatadasa, and a verbal message, stating the terms
demanded by the allied kings for their treachery, and

Rakshasa's own demand, the removal of Chanakya.

The king confronts Raksliasa With the proofs, and
the minister has made his case worse

from the

start, for, asked he order of march proposed, he
assigns to the allied kings the proud duty of guarding

the king's person, which Malayaketu interprets as a
device to facilitate their treachery.

Rakshasa is

bewildered; he can deny the message, but the seal
and the Writing are genuine; can Shakatadasa have

turned traitor through fear ? The argument against
him is clinched by the king’s seeing that 112 wears

a fine jewel, one of those purchased at the close of
Act II; it was the

king’s father’s and must, he

insists, be the price of the

minister’s treachery.

Incensed. the foolish king gives orders to bury alive
those allied kings who craVed territory as their
reward, and to trample «under elephants those who
sought them as their share, All is confusion, and

Rakshasa insolently spared deeply soliloquizes on

venes; Chariakya and Chandragupta come on the

scene, and Rakshasa decides to accept the ofﬁce
of minister pressed

on}

him

by

both

when,

thus alone he can save, not his own life: but that
we Cglandandasa and his ﬁiends. They inqeed..arc
in sore, case for Malayekeju’s massacre of the kings
has; broken the host into fragments, and the apparent

rebels have taken the moment to capture himianzi his
As minister, Rakshasa is permitted to fret:
ls
Maiayaketu and restore his lands, Chan:.landa::a

court.

rrxl-xarcisd, and a general amnesty approved.

suit“ ३
३

for him, slips away to fulfil his duty of rescuing his
friend Chandanadasa. Act VI! secs Chandandasa led
out w dam, his wife and child beside him,; the
wife is determined to die also, but Rakhsasa inter;

«Jar: ‘

the failure of all his ends and the fate of his friend,
and seeing that nothing save I self-sacrifice is left

