Th e Festival
For the Paschim Banga Natya Akademi, it was not an easy
task to make a representative selection out of the current
productions running in the State, especially in view of the
fact that this is the ﬁrst time that an organization of the standing
of the Akademi has taken it upon itself to offer such a package
to theatregoers outside the State. The executive body of the
Akademi, made up of most of the important theatre
personalities of the State—directors, playwrights, stage and
lighting designers, actors and actresses, music directors and
critics—had to meet several times to come to a consensus.
Directors of groups who are also members of the executive
had to rise above the immediate interests of their own groups
and take a more objective view of things. The considerations
that ultimately scored included the need to project the range
of theatre activity in the State, and in particular new and
innovative trends; as well as the obligation to register the
continuities evident in the Bengali theatre tradition in its
concern with adaptations and commitment to social and
political issues of immediate consequence. At a point when

(lit. The warrior with the sad countenance), reading Cervantes

into Don Quixote, as Cervantes acts out his masterpiece in
prison with his fellow prisoners. Theatre Workshop’s latest
production, Eka Ebong Eka (‘Alone ! Alone 1’), directed by Ashok

Mukhopadhyay, is a play about theatre in Calcutta, dealing into
its problems and passions alike.
Bibhash Chakrabarty, Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee,

uses a Sunil Gangopadhyay novelette as the base for the latest
Anya Theatre production,Jochhanakumari, set in a village close
to the India-Bangladesh border, and exploring the politics of
communal division and partition as it rides roughshod over
the lives and loves of common people.
Ms. Jayoti Bose has staged her extremely lively and popular
Care Kori Naa (‘We don’t care’) more than a hundred times

in a little over a year—in school halls, community puja spaces,
in small towns, in almost every kind of situation imaginable,
besides the usual proscenium performance. With adult actors

and actresses playing children for children, it offers a creative
and critical challenge that children in West Bengal have
responded to, with great relish and fun.

the number ﬁve seemed too constrictive, it was decided that

productions from the State seen in the capital in the recent
past or scheduled to be staged in the near future would be
excluded. That made the selection a little easier.

The selection nonetheless leaves out a lot of the
contemporary theatre in the State, especially the latest
developments and regional currents in the theatre in the district
towns;

and the third theatre movement, performing in
non-proscenium spaces, and raising vital issues; and the

Of the ﬁve productions chosen for this festival, 'I‘itumeer
by the People’s Little Theatre is a revival by a couple of younger
directors of a production originally directed and designed by
Utpal Dutt, who passed away a little over a year ago. The
production in its reincarnation bears the impress of the earlier

militant activist theatre groups, often working from directly
political and trade union platforms.

production, in its virile, colourful, spectacular evocation of

The Akademi

a

Arun

The State Natya Akademi, founded on 26 September 1987,

Mukhopadhyay and Chetana, best known for their Mareech

has pursued a comprehensive programme over the years,

Samvad (1973) and Jagannath (1977), have recently mounted

supporting and sustaining theatre activity in the State in several

their version of The Man of La Mancha as Dukhimukhijoddha

ways; including a series of week-long training workshops in
1

peasant.

revolution

in

the

nineteenth

century.

