started way back in 1975. She has played the lead roles in

children and observes adults and their authoritarian positions

Theatre Workshop’s productions of Rajrakta, Narak Guyaar,

from the point of view of children. A brother and a sister,

Mahakalir Bachcha, Bajpakhi etc., all directed by Bibhash
Chakrabarty. Ms. Bose has also worked with Manoj Mitra in
Sundaram’s productions of Mesh 0 Rakshasa and Sajano Bagan.
Ms. Sohag Sen utilized her talents in a Bengali version of Trilogy
of Till-we-meet-against by Botho Strauss and in Uttaradhikar,
a Bengali version of Wada Chirebandi. In 1990 Ms. Bose formed
her own theatre group ‘Sutrapat’. The actress turned director
with Pratibimba by Mahesh Elkunchwar. She then directed
Badal Sircar’s Baki Itihaas. With Sutrapat’s third production
Care Kori Naa!.' Jayoti Bose brought the Grips theatre to
Calcutta. Its second Grips-play Robot Kupokat has been jointly
directed by Wolfgang Kolneder and Ms. Bose. Ms. Bose has
participated in acting workshops conducted by Richard
SCheChnCI‘,J011n Martin, Badal Sircar and Wolfgang Kolneder.
She has taken part in the Festival of India in Germany in
September 1991 as a technical assistant for the opening
ceremony. She has participated recently in the Young Directors’
Workshop organized by the Sangeet Natak Academy in
February-March 1995. She has worked as assistant on several
ﬁlm and TV projects.

ﬁghting all the time not so much one against the other as
for their working single mother’s attention, ﬁnds a friend

Th e Grou p
Sutrapat, founded in 1990, has produced Mahesh Elkunchwar’s

Pratibimb in Bengali, and Badal Sircar’s Baki Itihaas (in the
Sangeet Natak Akademi’s scheme for assistance to young
directors), both directed by jayoti Bose, before entering its
Grips—Theater phase, producing plays for children and young
audiences.
Th e P lay

Committed to the ideology of the Grips Theatre, begun in
Berlin in 1969 by Volker Ludwig, the play takes“ the side of

beyond the class barrier. Uncorrupted yet by discriminations
of class, they cherish and celebrate the friendship, and draw
both strength and the spirit of liberation from it. In the process,

3

