founding and leading his own group, Chetana, in November
1972. His major productions for Chetana include Mareech

AIR and DD, Chetana has been active on the political street
theatre scene too.

Samvad (1973) and Jagamzath (1977), both of which he also
wrote; the second a take-off from a Lu Xun story. He
has

also adapted and directed several Brecht plays. As an actor,
he won the coveted National Award for the Best Actor of
the Year for his performance in the title role of Mrinal Sen’
s
Parashuram. He visited Moscow as member of the Indian

delegation to the International Film Festival, 1978, and the
USA and Canada in 1977, and toured the USA with his gr
oup

in 1980 and 1990.

T he G ro u p

The Play
The play is set in the prison where Cervantes and his attendant
lie imprisoned in a common jail, as undertrials at the religious
court. Cervantes acts out the story of Don Quixote, the Knight
of the Doleful Countenance, with his fellow prisoners, acting

the role of the knight himself, and putting a lot of his own
response to life into the characterization and presentation alike.
The Don Quixote story as retold and re-enactecl by the rowdy
band of prisoners is the story of Alonso Quixana, who imagines
himself to be a redoubtable knight, Don Quixote de la Mancha,
and sets off on his adventurous travels, determined to redress

Chetana, founded in 1972, shot to fame with its production
of Mareech Samvad, an unusual interweaving of three storie
s
set in different times and different places, all of them involved

with a man making a choice in the face of a whole set of
pressures; the moral issues surfacing in the process
underscored by a lively chorus. Still on its repertoire, Mareech
has had more than 650 performances till date, has been
translated and produced in several languages including Hindi
and English, and been ﬁlmed. Chetana’s subsequent
productions include adaptations of Brecht’s The Good Person
of Setzuan, The Measures Taken, and The Chalk Cross, th
e

Gorky-Brecht Mother and the Shakespeare-Brecht Coriolanus,
Kipphardt’s In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer; and
Beckett’s Endghme (directed by the American director Leonard
Shapiro). Chetana has toured USA and Canada with Mareech

Samvad andjagamzath in 1980, and with Kabir and Haripada
Haribol in 1990. Excerpts fromJagannath have been presented
at Toronto University, New York University, and at a workshop
session at the Trinity La Mama Performing Arts Program. While
several Chetana productions have been broadcast/telecast over
8

social wrongs and injustices. He ends up ﬁghting with windmills,

