in the Department of Drama, a position which he now holds.
He joined Nandikar in 1960, and acted in several productions
directed by Ajitesh Bandyopadhyay, before leaving Nandikar
in 1966 to form Theatre Workshop with Bibhash Chakrabarty,

Maya Ghosh and others. With Theatre Workshop, he acted
in several productions, including Rajrakta, Chakbhanga Madhu,

Schweyk Gelo Juddhey, Bisarjan, all directed by Bibhash
Chakrabarty. Since 1985', he has directed all new Theatre
Workshop productions, including Bela Abelar Galpo, Ali Baba,
Bedaa, and Ebar Ganesher Pala, acting major roles in all these
productions. He has also directed Duhsamay by Buddhadev
Bhattacharya, for the Government of West Bengal. He has
acted in ﬁlms directed by Satyaji t Ray (Sonar Kella and Shakha

Prashakha),

Mrinal

Sen

(Calcutta

71

and

Parashuram),

Buddhadeb Dasgupta ('I‘ahader Katha), Chidananda Dasgupta
(Amodim') and Utpal Dutt (ﬂier). He has translated and adapted

several plays, and written original plays too, including Ebar
Ganesher Pala. He has participated in several important theatre
L seminars in India and abroad, including those at London,
Glasgow, Paris, Vienna, Dhaka, Chattagram and Rajsllahi.

The Group
Founded in 1966, Theatre Workshop has had two distinctive

phases, with two directors, viz. Bibhash Chakrabarty till 1985,
and Ashok Mukhopadhyay since then. With a wide range of
productions to its credit, Theatre Workshop has covered
playwrights like Tolstoi, Brecht, O’Gasey, Wesker, Sartre,
August Wilson, Rabindranath Tagore, Utpal Dutt, Badal Sircar,
Mohit Chattopadhyay and Manoj Mitra; its adaptations from
foreign sources and fresh interpretations of Bengali classics
often proving controversial. The group has published a
signiﬁcant body of books, booklets, and annotated brochures

for new productions, providing useful background material
for viewers.

The Play
The structural design of Eka Ebong Eka follows the love,
marriage and separation of a young couple living in the
metropolis of Calcutta. The young wife, an actress in a reputed
theatre group, seeks her identity as an artiste and a human
being inside and outside her marital relationship with her
professor-husband. She is deeply attached to the vocation of
acting and admires her director, but also loves her husband
clearly. The husband is outwardly liberal in his outlook on
life, but deep inside he is possessive and consewative.
The resultant drama is characterized by a clash of values
that suggests the changing pattern of modern life in the urban

