readings of history and political developments; at another level,
they offered insights into the political and cultural history of
Bengal. PLT’s masterpieces include Tiner 'I‘alwar, Barricade,
Tota/Mahavidroha, Duswapner Nagari, 'I‘itmneer, Danrao
Pathikbar, Shrinkhal Chhara, Ajker Shahjahan, Ekla Chalo Rey

and Janatar Aphim. The group toured Germany in 1985, and
the erstwhile USSR in 1987. The group produced Kallol for
the prestigious Sangeet Natak Akademi national retrospective
in 1989. The group, with an ensemble of about 50 actors and
actresses, has a rich repertoire of plays including comedies,

historical and documentary plays, and several classics, several
of which have, received ofﬁcial and unofficial awards.
The Play

As part of his reading of the history of revolutions in a global
and national perspective at the same time, Utpal Dutt seeks
to offer a revaluation of the peasant revolt led in Bengal in
1830 by Meer Nissar 'Ali, popularly known as Titumeer
(1782-1831). Misrepresented by colonial historians and their
followers alike, Titumeer appears in Dutt’s account as a man
torn between two commitments— his deep religious faith,
which does not stand in the way of his sense of brotherhood
with the dispossessed of all religious denominations, including
the Hindu peasantry; and his all-consuming passion directed
against the white-skinned imperialists who appeared to him
as Kaﬁrs. It is a poor man’s religion that catches the
revolutionary fervour, with Mishkin Shah and Gulam Masoom
acting as catalysts. But Titumeer, with the mantles of
revolutionary leadership and prophetry thrust 011 him, screams
in desperation, with deadly honesty: ‘I am 11ojesus, no martyr
of Karbala. I am a mere human being, a poor man.’
In this human, popular reading of history, Dutt introduces
several characters to illustrate the contradictions that surface
and clash in individuals caught in the vortex of revolutionary
violence. As Dutt himself puts it, ‘The expressions and emotions

typical of indiVidual faces are lit up by the ﬂames of revolution,
and that is what a revolutionary play' is all about.’ janjali, the
ironsmith, becomes responsible for her'oppressor son’s death,
and sinks into the oblivion of insanity But Motiuddin, with
slavery writ in his soul, lets his fo1mer master escape. Mishkin
Shah ﬁnds a perverse pleasure in bloodshed. Crawford Pyron
represents a combination Ofintellectual and ruthless marauder,
while Captain Brandon, in his relationship with Champa, shows
an innate respect for womankind, characteristic of the values
of a progressive bourgeois society. Dutt exposes the different
power equations of the landed Indian gentry, those who held
on to the Mughal mansabdari system and those whose
ascendancy drew on Cornwallis’s Permanent Settlement; with
the former ﬁnding a closer afﬁnity with the revolutionary
peasantry and already looking forward to a mobilization of
the class in the revolutionary upsu1ge of 1857.
Credits

Play
Direction

:
'

Lights
Stage design
Music

:

:

Utpal Dutt
Bishnupriya Paul and
Mrinal Ghosh
Tapas Sen
Monu Dutt
Prashanta Bhattacharya
13

