SOCIAL WELFARE PROJECTS —
Thank You From the ICU
’ ‘HE opening beneﬁt performance of The Diary of Anne Frank, which you are
supporting, is for the Social Welfare Projects of the Indian Cooperative

Union. There is a community of mind that brings Anne Frank and ICU’s
Social Welfare Committee together: the same hope that “the pitiless days will
come to an end.” For, though Anne Frank’s ordeal was of horriﬁc dimension,
the pitilessness of days still agonises many millions around the world on a lesser
scale. Here in India, to some of such people the Indian Cooperative Union
tries to bring “order, rest and peace.”
The welfare projects of ICU ﬁrst began in 1949 in the wake of partition
which displaced millions. Many who had lost all but their will to live came
into Delhi to ﬁnd refuge in the most inglorious circumstances. To these the
Social Welfare Committee took succour, hope and a vision of better things.
Centres were set up in ﬁve different areas in and around Delhi with the ultimate
objective of developing in the people served a community consciousness which
could be translated into a cooperative organisation for economic betterment.
Medical aid, child and adult education, family planning programmes, recreation,
rehabilitation of the mind—these were some of the speciﬁcs.

Aid for these projects which continue and expand was sought from

agencies in India and abroad—the Central Social Welfare Board, the Bharat
ee
Sevak Sarnaj, the Delhi School of Social Work, the Unitarian Service Committ

of Canada, CARE, New Zealand’s CORSO, Associated Country Women of the
World, the American Women’s Club, New Delhi—all these and many others
joined in help.

But social welfare is a ﬁeld of patient work and unspectacular results.
. DeSpite
It is an area of proﬁt only in human terms not of material returns
generous help more is needed year after year.

ed to seek
For the ﬁrst time the Indian Cooperative Union has ventur
gh
s only, throu this beneﬁt
support directly from people, rather than organisation
support is gratefully received
performance of The Diary of Anne Frank. Your
measure, with Anne
and with it we will be able to join in saying, in small

Frank: “Things will change.”

