about thio unuoual play
THE play you are to witness tonight is unusual in that, unlike the majority of theatre
it is not ﬁction—but a reconstruction of scenes in a true human drama which was
played in real life in an attic in Amsterdam, by two Jewish families in hiding from the
Gestapo during the last war.
That it has been possible to reconstruct these scenes so accurately is due to the
remarkable ability of a young girl—the original Anne Frank—to record in her diary,
not only the detailed story of her experience, with its brief joys, its fears, its tensions
and its tragic ending .... .. but also to reveal through her writings much of what went on in
the minds of the eight people who were in hiding, and more especially of the struggle
in the development of her own character during three critical years of her own life, when
she was completely cut off from the outside world.
In producing this play I have not attempted to stress anything, to symbolize
anything or to read anything into the words spoken by the various characters. All l have
attempted is to reproduce the scenes that are played as naturally and as effectively as
possible.
Moreover, I was so moved, when । read the original diary, by the tragic epilogue
(the story itself is not a tragedy—but a triumph of human endurance) that I decided, as
soon as I had read the dramatization, that I would rather end the play as simply and as
directly as the editor has ended the published diary. So I have omitted the ﬁrst and
last scenes of the original script of the play and added a brief postscript, taken word for
word from the published diary’s epilogue. This is not to say that I do not appreciate the
playwrights’ beginning and ending; it is just that I wanted to keep as close to the published
diary as I could.

The authors of the play have made some minor changes in the sequence of events
and even in characterization. But these are necessary in the dramatic form and l have not,
of course, attempted to go back to Anne’s diary here. I will say, however, that those of
our audiences who have not read Anne’s original diary will not ﬁnd they have lost
anything by having seen the play ﬁrst. If our production interests you and makes you
think, the diary will do so a hundred times more.

M l C H A EL

O V E R M A N

