D1 RECT0 R
THEATRE AND FILM UNIT BOMBAY

R A J A N

I would deem it a pleasant day for me to witness the success of the celebration of the World Theatre Day
1984. In fact we intended to gear our efforts for serving for little better ‘cause by celebrating this
World Theatre Day 84. I personally have much sympathy for the people who are working for theatre.

In a country like india they need much help and support in all respects other wise they would be forced
to quit this effective and better medium of expression and communication. They are contributing their
lives for the betterment and upliftrnent of our society and putting their maximum devotion and

dedication for that-trying out for the better meaning of life

and

how

One

could

live

in

a

disirable

standard inspite of all being in the different situations. Circumstances, one has to try out for the best
of life style, thinking and living in what One has got. In fact the Theatre And Film people may be
considered as precious jewels among us. I am not talking about all of them ibut a class of people
working in their true sense. Some people are misusing these medias extremely for their personal interests.
I
think they should better try how they could be more useful and meaningful

to our society.

I

do

not

intend to ignore the entertainment part of it but at the same time they should realise that entertainment through sex and violence is not only the instruments for the better theatre And Film. One has to
justify if he is taking even a single penny or a minute from the public and not being responsible for that
at all. We have to fight for that-for a better cause meaning and

understanding for

the

Socio - cultural

development of society in its true senses.

When I thought of the people working for Theatre and at the moment are unable to manage the basic
needs to survive in this world, I thought I must do something for them Now. We have taken
a decision
to introduce THEATRE AND FILM UNIT RELIEF FUND. The very idea of celebrating the world Theatre
Day did not strike to me as a purpose for entertainment, joy and pleasure but to be much more mea
ningful
and relevant to its purpose in its true sense, One of the major aims of the world The
atre Day is to bring
to--gether the largest possible number of participants to affirm the ideals of peace and mu
tual understanding between the peoples of the world to strengthen the National Integration
and activate the inter-state

