Once upon a time Bidesia has been recogrised as a very popular folk drama of Bihar specially

Bhikhari Thakur-a gifted artist

in the western region of Bihar. This form was the creation of Late
of the soil. He was born in 1886 in a village called Kutubpur Diyara

(Bihar)

and

on July

died

10, 1971. There are more than two dozen published articles and dramas written by him but among
all only BIDESIA became the most popular piece of his creative genious. He had a rare combination

of an Actor, writer and of a manager in himself. His written dramas were staged by himeslf.

Bidedsia is such a folk form wherein we find a nice mixture of

Dance Drama and Music

which commands Theatre complete in itself having colour of its own. The content and form of Bidesia
represents and depicts the real village life of part

of Bihar.

It

tells

about

the contemporary and

burning social problems like young girls when getting married with old men, the

young

girls

forced to sacrifice their youth due to poverty. This is nothing but a manifestation of how
were suffering from economic problems and used to sell their daughters without

are

people

considering

age.

How a young bride is ill-treated by her Sister-in-laws and Mother-in Laws after being married-the

mis-happenings, accidents and other side-effects of drinking and the problems of widows and many
more than these.
Our Director says If you want to serve the cause of

Art

will have to go deep into the roots of your own culture and find

literaturre and
treasures

in

creative arts you
your own cultural

heritage and try to preserve and store them as earlier to the future generations. He further says that
the natural beauty and fragrance of Bihar particularty of Bhojpur region can be found in the art
and culture of Late Bhikhari Thakur-the creator and founder of Bidesia. According to him Bhikhari

Thakur may be rated as Shakespeare of Bhojpuri. Mr. Rajan is also planning to exploit-through bigger
platforms and a wide range of recognition to this natural beauty and folk Art form of Bihar-BIDESlA
It all depends on how people in general respond to all these.

प-म

“ l feel myself the luckiest person for l have got entry
it is really helping me for my future career.“

in Theatre And Film Unit Bombay

and

S h a m s h u d i n (Th a n a )
" New faces, new people, new experiences, some are good some may be bitter, but only if we
understand each other, that cannot be there. Good unit good people-striving for a good purpose
and if purpose is good, results are bound to be rewarding"

Rathi (Bombay)
" Shri Rajan's endeavour to celeberate World Theatre Day by staging his set composed play Daurti
Hui Aatmayen in leading Indian lanpuages is really praiseworthy"

Prashant Deb ( Bombay )
” We are really grateful to Mr. Rajan and the unit members. They have given Amateure artists the
best chance to prove ourselves and also to bring out the best of talents.“
Raju Patngy (Delhi)

" । think there is no Theatre Organisation which will give us such a great opportunity to display
our (Amateure Artists) acting talents."

D. P. Shanna (Gujrat)

