R A J A N

Awarded Indian Actor, Writer and Director (Stage, Film Radio and Television) The National School of
Drama, Delhi Er The Asian

Theatre Institute Graduate Founder

Director’ The Creatives'

Er Theatre

And Film Unit Bombay.

1965

—

Appeared on the stage for the first time and was d :clared the best artist of the town on
occasion of

Saraswati Pooja

Festival at Hajipur, Bihar (India) by Shri Uma Kant Verma

a literary personality of Bihar and a lecturer in Hindi, R. N. College, Hajipur.
1970

—

A certificate of merit in acting was awarded for the best acting in short play at Muzaff—
arpur by Loknayak Jay Prakash Narayan.

1971

—

A prize awarded for the best acting in a play performed in ‘Weldi Club', Jamshepur.

25th Nov. On the occasion of Birth Celebration of Late

72

—

Deep Narayan singh, a prize was awarded

for the best acting in ”DHANUSH KISANE TORA" (Hindi Play) as the role of ‘INSPECTOR'
staged in Deep Narayan Higher Secondary School, Vaishali.

1973

—

Awarded for the best acting by the directors of a number of dramatic Institution of Bhub-

aneswar (Orissa), Delhi, Calcutta and Patna, Bihar (India).

Began radio Drama Writing and Acting.
1974

—

Formed 'The Creatives' Patna (an International Organisation for Socio-Cultural Development
of society through all creative arts) - elected as the director of the Organisation.

1975

—

Selected as ’Assistant Director' and was awarded merit certificate for the play ’Bhoot Ghar
staged in Ravindra Bhawan and producted by Patna College.

1975

—

Elected as the Secretary of MUSIC 8 Drama Society Patna College, Bihar (India).

1976

—

Awarded for the best acting in own written and directed play - HATYARA by the Music

8 Drama Society of

Patna College on the occasion of the Annual Cultural Function of

University.
1976

—

Awarded a special Merit Certificate in acting by Mrs. A. Mukhopadhaya the directress of
the One Act. Play Festival Cultural Society and Acharya Devendra Nath Sharrna, the then
Chief Guest of the Programme.

19th April Awarded for the best acting writing and

directing for the play - 'DAURATI

HUI AATM-

AYEN' by the Director of the Patna One Act Play Festival Cultural Society Mr. Jagannath

Kaushal, the then Governor of Bihar congratulated and Mr. S. V. Sohani, Lokayukt of
Bihar appreciated a lot.
1977

—

Elected as the Secretary of Musik 8 Drama

Society Patna University, Bihar (India) and

represented the Patna University inside and outside Bihar on different occasions with Cutlural Programmes and also as an Actor, Writer

and Director.

