About the Troupe
The Departmental Drama Troupe of the Song and Drama Division came into
existence
eight years ago and its performances are not new to Delhi audience. The Troupe stages
plays
only in Hindi.
Its performances have been equally appreciated in other parts of India. Particu
lar
mention may be made ofthe Troupe’s visit to the South and more recently to Rajast
han when
its performances won laurels from the press and public alike. The Troupe
has so far
presented more than six hundred performances in various parts of the country.
About the Play
The three act comedy “HE HI DEWAS JATEEL” in Marathi has been written by
three authors —— M. G. RANGNEKAR, VASANT SABNIS, G. D. MADGULKA
R
All the three are well-known humorists in Marathi literature. They give their
best
in each act constituting a hilarious comedy. This version is a Hindi adapta
tion of the
original 1\Iarathi and naturally certain modiﬁcations of details were made.
The story is woven round a rich family, the earning member being far away in Iraq.
५
The other members of the family—the mother, two sons and two daughters are whiling
away
their time in luxury and lethargy. Sethsaheb, the head ofthe family is minting money
in his
business at Iraq and his heirs, especially the two sons are at a loss to know what to do in
life,
as it never occurs to them that they are ever required to work for their livelihood. A shrewd
doctor who has been employed, by Sethsaheb to take care of the health of his family, watche
s
the life of all the members and along with the weekly health-report, keeps Sethsa
heb in
touch with the affairs ofthe family. One day Sethsaheb returns suddenly from Iraq
and to
the astonishment of all, announces that he has distributed all his money in charity and
has
closed his business. He behaves in strange manner. As all the servants of the
house have
gone on strike, he orders his wife and children to do all household duties, which
is a very

strange experience for them all. The servants after some days return and beg forjobs
, which
he offers, with the condition that they can stay employed but will be strictly prohibited
from
doing any work. They soon get tired of the idle life as much as the two sons who
have now
started doing independent business and have discovered the pleasure of work.
And one
day Sethsaheb suddenly receives a telegram from h1s Manager at Iraq that his
presence
is badly required. His deception is exposed, yet, his idea to let all the people in
his house
know the signiﬁcance of work, is successful.
'

