NATYA SAMAROH ’85

January 10
RAMLILA (in Hindi)
Produced by: Meghdoot, Lucknow
Written by: Rakesh
Directed by: SM. Kulshrestha

SYNOPSIS
On an unclaimed piece of land in the city both Hindu and Muslim slurndwellers
live together in harmony and participate in each other’s religious festivals. They
decide to stage Ramlila and elect Puttan to play the role of Ram in it. They approach

Seth Kalika Prasad for funds.

.

But the Seth is a greedy man who not only becomes the head of the Rarnlila
organising committee but is interested in grabbing the piece of land as well. He
agrees to fund the Ramlila on the condition that the Ramlila narrator, Bade Mian,

would be replaced by a Hindu and none but Hindus must participate. His own
daughter, Rashrni, opposes this move but he provokes the Hindus to evict the
Muslims from the slum.
The Muslims, led by Ali Bahadur, are enraged, and decide to evict the Hindus

and build a Mosque in the slum. Ali Bahadur attempts to make a deal with the Seth
secretly to get hold of the land but it fails. A riot ensues and in the communal
conﬂagration Puttan’s father is killed. Then the slurndwellers come to their senses
and Ali Bahadur joins hands with the Seth to form a communal harmony trust on the
same land which enables them to live together in peace.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The events in the play are related to Ramlila but the style of production is not
confined to it and is derived from the basic elements of folk theatre. It is an
experiment to develop a theatre form with the barest of theatrical amenities such as
sets, constumes, make-up etc. The stress is on ﬁnding a theatre idiom for expression

with simplicity and directness imbibing elements of Rarnlila, the most popular folk
"
theatre of Northern lndia.

CAST AND CREDITS
Seth: Prabhudayal; Vinod: Rajendra Nigam; Ali Bahadur: Ajithan; Bade Miyan;

Afamjit Singh; Mirza: Pawan Kumar; Puttan: Anil Shukla; Puttan’s Father:
Harikrishrw Arora alias Hallobhaiya; Molavi: MerajAlam Khan; Kaka : Raja Awasthi,
Raslirrii; Veda Rakesh; Puttan’s Mother: Mridula Narendra; Wife: Km. Kalparia '
Pandey; Thekedar: Jai Prakash Awasthi; Pandit: Ashuini Pandey; Man— 1: Rakesh;

Marv-2: Narendra; Rahamat: Naval Shukla; Habib: Ajit Shriuastaua; Ramlila
Mandali: Nisar Ahmed, Anup Shriyastaua, Abhijit Chakrauarti, Munish Sajal,
Mahesh Shanna, Sidharth Pakarasi, Prabhakar Tripathi; Narrator—1: Subhas
Goswami; Narrator—-2: Ramesh Saini;

Shahnai: Ustad Sikandar Khan, Itt‘ikhab Alarm Bharti; Dholak: Gulam Khan;
Harmonium: Master Pyare.

Lighting: Arun Triuedi; Make-Up: Hem Singh; Costumes: Munish Sappal & Ramesh
Saini: Music Direction: Atamjit Singh; Assistance: Subhas Goswami; Back Stage:
Prabhakar Tripathi.

S.M. KULSHRESHTHA (b. 1953)
Had his training in theatre from Bharatendu Natak Academy, Lucknow in 1976—
77 and specialised in direction. He has directed more then 15 plays including
Mahabhoj, Spartakas, Thankyou Mr. Glad, Bakri, Aadhey Adhure etc. He has
adapted Brecht’s Caucasian Chalk Circle in folk style as Ajab Das ki Ajab Dastan.

