5
8
’
H
O
R
A
M
A
S
NATYA

January 11
MUKTIPATH (in Oriya)
Produced by: Anwesana, Bhubaneswar
Written & Directed by: Narayan Pati

SY N OP SI S
A newly wed couple come to town for a pleasure trip but by midnight end up in a
police lock- up where the woman is raped till she loses consciousness and the man is
beaten to death. The death is passed off as a case of suicide and the woman is left
lying on the road; she is picked up by the police next morning and, in connivance

with a woman of loose morals enjoying police patronage, she is booked under the
suppression of immoral traffic act.

The reaction of the townsfolk varies from choked whispers to loud protests,
from callous curiosity to unbridled enthusiasm for direct action with the intention of
manipulating the situation to suit diverse political interests.

DI R EC TO R’5 NOTE
As the synopsis of the play suggests, it belongs to a different genre where not
the spoken words but the movements and sound patterns are of greater importance.
As such for its production we have to take recourse to various forms that have a firm
base in the collective social memory.
in the narrative portions we have made use of lyrics, tuned after the tribal

ballads, as can be heard in the northwestern hillt‘racts of Orissa and its neighbouring
Chhattisgarh area. In another sequence, where people are invoked to rise as one
against all sorts of sociopolitical oppression, we have freely borrowed from the
sound and dance pattern of Chhou. In certain choreographed compositions we have
used the dramatic essence of the spirit of Chhou Nacha and Dandanata. These

apart, we have made use of several other indigenous styles and forms to suit the
spirit of the play.

‘

CAST AN D C RE DITS
Shantanu Mishra, Gouranga Rout, Basanta Mohanty. Kalinga Das, Biranchi
Upadhyaya, Tusar Bisoi, Sanjay Pattnayak, Durga Pattnayak, Dillip Pradhan,
Keshab Mohapatra, Diptiranjan Mishra, Pratap Mohanty, Surya Ratha, Himanshu
Das, Ashok Ray, Krushna Keshari Das, Krushna Das, Kunja Ray, Namita
Bhattacharya, Barsa Priyadarshini.

Music: Parag Pattnayak; Tabla: Susif; Jazz Budho; Light [Designing and Control:
Dolagobinda Roth; Set and Make-up: Prauat Moharana; Property and Costume:
Santosh Satpathy; General Assistance: Bidhu Roul.

NARAYAN PAT] (b. 1953)
Graduate from Utkal University (1974). Actively involved with various Theatre
Movements in Orissa. A Graduate of National School of Drama, Delhi (1979). He
has been participating as an Actor and Director of amateur theatrical productions
since 1951. Some of them have been widely acclaimed and awarded by the Orissa
Sangeet Natak Academy. Started his own productionsas a Director—WriterActor in 1981. He acted in two Oriya feature film and produced a 30 minutes T.V.

feature film for Doordarshan, Cuttack. Founder of “Anwesana”. Directed plays
“Lekhak”, Gati Mukti”, Anya eka Frutbibi” and “Ganahatya”.

