I N D R A P R A ST H A THEATRES
We would not venture to call ourselves a professional group; but we would like to be
regarded as pioneers for such a group. Although we are not by any means a proﬁt-making
organisation, we have nevertheless started paying a small fee to our actors during rehearsals
and performances.

The emphasis, alas, is on “small”.

We cannot pretend that it is a sum on

which our actors can retire from the work by which they earn their living. It is, in fact, nothing
more than a contribution towards the expenses they incur in travelling to and from the place
of rehearsal. But that is at least a beginning; a kind of token fee, a promise of more to come
when more can come.

Moreover, the actors are promised a share in whatever proﬁts the play
in which they are participating may make. Again, of course, this is “theoretical” money.
Even if our plays do not run at a loss, it is not likely that they will, for some time to come,
make anything like a proﬁt.

But again, we are looking forward to the future, to that time

when the actors’ share will be worth something because enough people will come to see our
plays to enable us to make a real proﬁt.
We are more than hopeful that such a time will eventually come. We only have to
remember what it was like eight years ago to try and stage a play in Delhi, to become convinced that people here have in the meantime become more, immensely more, theatre-conscious.

Eight years ago it was very difﬁcult to ﬁnd sufﬁcient actors and—especially—actresses; there
was nothing even resembling a theatre, and we had to put up with shabby little halls ﬁtted out
for the occasion with shabby little chairs; and worst of all—the cajoling, blackmailing, pleading
and promising we had to do in order to sell a few tickets and get a sprinkling of audience
together!

Now things have changed greatly for the better; and we are convinced that they

will get better still, till one day we shall have a real professional theatre.

Meanwhile, we

are going ahead

with future plans.

R. G. Anand is already busy

thinking of his next venture, “Nayya Mori”, which is to be a musical about VIPs (or rather the
shadow they cast) in Delhi.

an
अरे

