क्यों

BEEENE
m, आँडे S

16rRlD/tv \LI‘HMI “1,”. ,‘lll'r [ii i HI

o
LEISURE

हैद्वाहुप्राद्वा७ क्यों,
Fragile peace: ()rie oj'lhe
photographs by A m iI
Melira that are on show in
Munilm i.

THE mint PLANNER
(Torirmrigli! I’lttct', Klimt Market. (झापा/स्था
Kailash-t and South [Extension i I'm 1111'
complete schedule, visit
www. faceboo R. Com / uotyu.Iaru ngi nr

DELHI
Around town
Long Night Of Literatures
25 September
Writers like Aisling Faliey front the UK.
Dauko Rabrenovic from Germany, Constantin Simon frotii France, Ashzt Miro
from Spain and Raj Kamal lha of India
will read excerpts from their books and
talk about various aspects of literature.
There will also be a question-answer
round after each reading,
6pm. Cervantes lnstitut, 48, Hanuman
Road. For registration and other details.
visit wwwbritishcouncil.in/
long—night- literature
Parampm Series 2015.Natlonal Festival Of Music at Dance
25-27 September
The 18th edition of this annual music and
dance festival will include a Kuchipudi
ballet by Raja and Radha Reddy and their
troupe. a Hindustani vocal recital by Sanieevahyankar. and a Manipuii dance
performance by Preeti Patel and troupe,
7pm. Kamani Airditariiuri, 1, Copernicus Marg. Passes, available at select
United Colors ofEenetlon outlets in

Around town
Dowmnttng Ramnagar
Ramllla (Varanasi)
27 September-27 October
Each year, over a million pilgrims headfor
Ramnagar,Varanasi, to see‘Ramlila’, a 31-

day theatrical retelling ofthe Hindu god
Ram's life,based on Tulsidas‘ book‘Ram(harifmanas'. In 2008, Unesco included
' Ra m | ila'In the Representative Ust of the
IntangibleCultural Heritage of Humanity. To
pruerve this ‘lntanglble heritage', the
IndiraGandhi National Centre forthe Arts
(IGNCA)will presentan audio—visual docu mentation of the2014 ‘Ramlila’in half-hour
instalmentsevery day.

6pm I GNCAMedia Centre, Ja npath
(23383895).

fin

iarpn lmm

Dante and music fest:
The l‘rtrrrtn/mnl
.S' rlru. 111111111 Int/rm in
Nell! llr'fltf.

Theatre
Genuine Liars
30 September
Directed by Happy Rant-iii, this play gets
its inspiration from the paintings of Pablo
Picasso. The story revolves around a mar
tied couple, two old lovers and a prostir
tute. The characters are seen interpreting
life and love, and talking about the
complexities of relationships, I hour.
15 minutes.
7.30pm. Sliri Ram Centre, Safdar
Hashmi Marg, Mandi House. TickeLs,
{100, 2200, {300 and 1500, available on
in .bookinyshowcom

मि . , ,

painter Berthe Morisot, who lived from

1841—95. 1 lioui, 40 minutes.
6.30pm. Alliance Francoise, 40, Theosophy Hall, Vitthaldas chersey Marg,
New Marine Lines, Cliurchgate

Narimun Point (66323737), Tickets, i400,
W500, ?l,200, ?l,6000nd {2,000, availae
bleat the venue and on
in .bookmyshow.cotn

graphic works by Aunt Mehra and Veer
Munshl. Mehra'sworks capture landscapes

andthe streets ofKashmir asthey
are today, devoid of drama, depicting
the fragile peacethat now hangs over
the valley.
Munshi, whois Interested in the idea of
exile. captures homes that were once grand
and animated, but nowlie in mitts.

MUMBAI

Berthe Morisot
28 September
Directed by Caroline Chatnpetier, this
French telefilrit is about Impressionist

,

TIII 17October
Thisexhibition features Video and photo

Around town

Film

s

Kashmir—lnsider/Outsider

By Chanpreet Khu mnu

The Magic Of Playwriting:
How To TellYour Story Theatrically
28 September
Writer-director Shafaat lGian will take the
audience through his scriptw‘riting process, right from the inception of an idea to
its portrayal on stage, The talk is part of
theatre group lunoon's community arts
initiative, Mumbai Loca .
4pm. Soniaiya Vidyar/ihar, Vidyauiliar
(East), To register, email
info@junoaritlzeatre.org orvisit
www.junoontheatre,org

,

A round town

Ham-6pm (Sundays closed). Sakshi Gal-

lery, 6/19,Second floor,Grants Building
Arthur BunderRoad, (olaba (66103424).
For details,visit wwwsakshrgalleryrom

(22036187), Fordeiat'ls, visit
Bombay,aj‘iridia. org.

By Shinilmli Milm Saigul

CHENNAI
Music
Bump
25 September
Founded in 2010, French tap duo Chill
Burnp—Bankal, the Dl/beatmaken and
Miscellaneous, the emcee—have released
four EPs.
7pm Museum Theatre, Pantheon Road.
Egmore. Passes, available on
www.eventjini .corn

Music
es
25-26 Septetiiber
The Symphony Orchestra of India and
Zakir Hussainwill perform Peslikor. the
tabla virtuoso's new concerto that cornbines tabla and orchestra. In addition.
Zane Dalal, the conductor of the Sym—
phony Orchestra of India, will conduct
Smetana's Overture To The Bartercd Bride
and Bartdk's Concerto.
7pm. [rims/red Blmblm Tlrmtm
National Centrej'or the Performing Arts,

The Interview
27 September
Directed by Akarsh Khurana and written
by Siddharth Kumar, The Interview is
about a young candidate who turns up
for a job interview, only to realize it
isn't the question~aiid-answer session he
had imagined. lokes fly thick and fast as
the interview turns into an inquisition
from hell. 1 hour. 20 minutes,
730an SirMuttm Vcnkatasubba Rao
Concert Hall, 7'. Shenstone Pork, Cherpet
(4&Sﬁl198). Tickets, {250, $100. {500117111

Blues started in the city in 2012, with only
Indian blues musicians and bands perform»
lug. “This was (I test case to see whether
there would be an audience for blues in
Mumbai, wi ng to come and listen to Indian
blues hands. Also to provide a platform for
Indian blues musicians," says Anil Mehta.

1 \lr/frr/rm tun/tr) with

"mm; 1 1'1141'111/111111111111111' 11111111111,
11 nu ५i, ll 1 ritt II rt1 mm.H 11 .

partner at Stanounc-ct. Thi.

MUMBAI I DELHI | BENGALURU

Dance away to the blues
lntematlonai band LII’ Red 5. The Rooster will perform at the fourth
edition of the ‘Simply The Blues’ music festival

s the first time

the festival is travelling to multiple places.
Milligan and i‘ouquet count diverse
artistes, from T-Honc Walker and Big Mama
Thornton to Ella Fitzgerald and KennyBurrell. among their influences. Milligun says
their ludln सं९ग्रहिभानि1वगा९अ९ता demonstrate
"blues styles from tmdurounl electric bluesin
delta, Memphis, l’ﬂglllilt‘, Chicago, with a little bit of funk and boogie thrown in”. French
harinonisr Thomas ‘l‘roussier will be performing with the "original Roosters”.
The audience can look forward to another
blues element at the shows: the wnslthoard—
it unique metal-ribbed percussion instru»
merit which, when plnyvd tight. lends the
music a rattling, grating rhythm.
A common misconception is that blues
music ls "szul'I or only for people who are
feeling low, “Blues in the olden days did
speak uhnut the triwuils in life, but slowly
evolved into different styles: says Melitn.
"'1३11० blues t‘llcnpsultltt‘s life with all its tips
and downs, it sputth from the lll‘ilrL... it iust

Bv ZINNIA [lav CuAunuuni

liow can i relate an experience in such a short

:lnnla.c@llvcmlnt com

scale?" says Mllllgnn on enroll.
Fouquct, it nutlupward-winning French
blues guitarist, and Milllgun, a singer-songwriter with n background in theatre and music,
are performing in India for the first time as
part of the fourth edition of "Simply The
Blues" festival, The festival, which kicked off in
Goa on 24 September. willtravel to Mumbni,

omc yearsback. when I went to France, I
went to a blues but with frltmdti mid heard
Pascal play. it was loveat first sight—for both
lhe blues and for Pascal," says Jennifer Milligan, vocalist for t.il' Red 12 The ltoo on S c is

talking about her life partner PilSCZI u
and the band SllL' started with him. “There Is
a simplicity anhe blues. Round in n lZ-bnr
format, it just makes you sit up and think—

३750, अश्वशक्ति/८111 the uenuearrdg‘n _दृ
in.bookrnyshow.oom‘ » ' '- “ श्री

Theatre

New Delhi and Bengoluru over lht.‘ next week.

Art Initiative of Mumbul-bnsed Starkon»
itect Events and Promotions, Simply The

depends on how you approach it."
Milligiut has it Illilt‘l’ response: “Currie
over for our t

0" mid you will prulmbly

cud tip dunrlug.
l'hc Simply llu‘ film» /t‘,\lll’tlf :mll 111३111'111111।
2

.

[IIl‘lnllt'r m antuu, :{Srph-mtu-r m

m in Delhi and :M .Nt'lttt-nrln'r u. lit'rrgulur u,

The Tenth Head and Nidnwuthwani
26-27 September
Theatre group Adishalcri will present The
Tenth Head (75 minutes) and Nidrauvathwam (55 minutes) on Saturday and
Sunday, respectively. The plays oﬂer an
interesting takeon the epic Ramayan.
7pm. Spaces. 7/15. Dr RK Salai, 8th
Street. Mylapore, For details. call
9840830880.
By Nandiru‘ Roddy

BENGALURU

The business of writing
The ﬁrst edition of the Bangalore Business Literature F
blogs, articles, papers, books and movies, and lndude v
Bv CIIANPREET KIIURANA
c‘lmnpmt‘ L'Qlit‘t‘niirrrcom
arreu Buffett‘s three favourite business
books—Adam Smith’s il'enlth Of
Nations, and Benjamin Graham'sIntelligent
Investor and Security Analysis—are available
as a compendium on Amazoncom, Articles
proclaim The Innovators Dilemma by Clayton M. Christcnscu as one of the books on
the late Steve lobs' must-read list and Business Adventures by lnhn Brooks its a favourite
of Bill Gates.
it has always been interestingto know
what the business icons of our times are
reading. So, in the inaugural segion of the
Bangalore Business literature Festival on 26
September, Vinita Bali. who has worked with
(iadbury India, Coca-Cola, [min America,
and. most recently, biscuit maker Britannia.
will Iillk about her favourite business books,
rind the impact they luwe had on her career.
Festival chieferecutivt‘ officer ((3130) Boned 1 Pairuuunand sms the idea of the 1५311u look गा business literature as a
who t
i‘
cludcs bus 1८५ liltigs. nous
and um
inc articles, papers, (IEO speeches
and management books.
So, 5 ossitins liLt' “Confluence Ufiiusmess

L
.
a.
Trade storiesA still
Media. a platform w
who will betnodeiat
focus areas for him i
should look for i a ‘
things to keep in mi.‘
the business of tcclu
Another session. ‘
Business literature I
look at someof the I
irrespective of the n-

chiming) —। low Hooks, Papers, Blogs
111111111८७1111111'1'1111म्भ11111' [In I)i'lhr

pt-rjhnmunt- Ir Ullt'" to all 1.८ l. n र 11111८11८'11gulurir)riml {51X} (Mimi/mi I ८1: ८11
1 11. but) kntysl I| M . A‘ t I i r है

Arc Enriching It" will bring out aspects 0
good business articles and hlugs. Mudnmntr
httu lino. research director of \hurStun‘

is
about writing thin ol
whirl changed in 1!)!

(

