Rebuilding H i stories
To tell the story of upheavals, migrations, dislocations and ruptures, is to open up
old wounds. In theatre such re—enactments become real, ﬂeshed out, palpable;

something we can engage with, contradict and question, making it perhaps one
of the most powerful mediums where we come face to face with historical choices

made by our predecessors. The retelling of cataclysmic events that have shaped
the nation’s destiny such as those of 1857, the Freedom Struggle and Partition,
amongst others, becomes an opportunity then, to not only reinvestigate the past,

but also a means to reclaim, re-appropriate and share it with the current generation.
Such theatrical encounters become intense collective experiences that hopefully

help build bridges towards a fuller understanding of the crucial role events of this
nature have played in the formation of our culture, consciousness and identity as
a people.

But it is not simple to touch history today. As seen recently, it is to swim in dangerous
waters. How history is read and interpreted is a fraught subject and one that is open

to heated debate. Political parties lay claim to whatever is currently expedient to
them. Partial truths and half—truths regarding the past are touted freely. The same
event can be told from a number of vantage points and each can appear valid and
convincing...the proletarian vantage point, the secular view, the communal view,

the wornan’s view, the artists view...a|l these possibilities lie latent, waiting to be
explored through the prism of an event as shattering and sweeping as 1857, one

which set alight a revolutionary surge that brought practically the entire country
under one slogan, FREEDOM, perhaps for the first time.
In circumstances such as these, where there is a sharp division of approaches

and interests amongst the claimants to a history and a culture, what position
can the theatre practitioner/artist adopt? As Nadine Gordirner asserted, it is a

writer/creative person’s ’awesome responsibility’ to his/her craft to be a witness
to reality. She argues that what creative ’witness’ writing achieves, in distinction
from documentary evidence and photographs, is the imaginative fusion of the
duality of the particular with wider human implications. In order to ﬁnd a theatrical

expression for this kind of creative writing, we have to devise a communicative
currency that can traverse spatial scales of the global, national, and local, as well as,
the past and the present.

Judging from the universal pleasure derived from storytelling, it is possible that
’ﬁction’ in theatre is one such currency. ’Fiction’, as the term is newly understood
today, draws attention to another way of thinking about knowledge in contrast to
a strictly empirical one based upon observation and fact of the existing material
world. Here knowledge is seen as a creative activity; it is knowledge that perceives
connections and similarities where none have been previously recognized, a

A M A L A L LA N A

knowledge that projects possible worlds rather than measuring the world as we

presently know it.
Seen in this context then, in dramatizing the past, in recovering it, in order for
it to speak to us, we begin a dialogue with it. Here we are naturally called upon

to interpret characters, events and affairs. As we begin to process the available
historical information, we continually adjust our assumptions, as well as invent
new interpretations, so as to accommodate new perspectives as they present
themselves. Perhaps as theatre artists then, our job in the larger context would be
to create utopian spaces... spaces where dissident voices can be accommodated

and heard, where the cries and whispers of those on the margins can be located
in the centre, a space that holds the potential for multiple and even divergent
perspectives to co-exist. Creativity, in such a manner, can help release history from
the grip of narrow parochialisrn and allow it to ﬂow unfettered into the present.

