The revolt of I857 was the outcome of the changing conditions —
political, economic and social — in the India of that time. The origin of
the discontent lay in Lord Dalhousie’s infamous doctrine of lapse, which
permitted the East India Company to annex Indian princely states
more or less at will. The annexations of Awadh,Jhansi, Satara, Nagpur
and other principalities, the abolition of two titular sovereignties,
the projected removal of the descendants of the Mughal Emperor,
Bahadur Shah Zafar, from the throne of Delhi, the refusal to continue
the pension of the late Peshwa Baji Rao II to his adopted son, Nana
Saheb, were some of the measures that made India feel besieged.

The growing unemployment among the followers and retainers of the
deposed princes gave rise to acute economic grievances. These were

further compounded by the dispossession of landholders. Under
the Land Settlement of Northern India, the Company took over the
holdings of those who could not show valid title to their lands. The
Inarn commission conﬁscated rent-free holdings that had mostly been
given as a reward for religious or scholarly merit.

Indeed, indigenous religions and scholarship themselves appeared
to be under threat. The introduction of western civilization to India
through the medium of western education, of Christian missionary
propaganda, of western material techniques and instruments and,
above all, of the English language shook Indian orthodoxy to the core.
Innovations like the telegraph were thought to be evil and western
learning the path to lead Indian youth astray. The denigration of Indian
culture and social institutions added insult to injury. The outward
public tranquility therefore concealed an explosive mixture that
could
be brought to a ﬂashpoint by any emotive incident.

Such an incident was unwittingly supplied by the British
military
authorities themselves. The Cornpany’s army employed
a large
number of Indians belonging to various castes and creeds.
These
sipahis (soldiers) or sepoys as they were called were as
susceptible
as the civilians to the unease that prevailed. In addition
they had
their own professional discontents: the loss of foreign
allowances in
distant regions that had meanwhile been annexed to British
India and
the growing tendency to deploy Indian troops in Britain’
s overseas
campaigns without regard for the fact that, for caste Hindus
, crossing
the sea was taboo. When the sepoys learnt that the cartrid
ges they had
to bite before loading them into the new 'Enﬁeld riﬂes
were greased
with cow and pig fat the ﬂashpoint was reached. The
conviction ran
like wildﬁre that there was a British plot to alienat
e both Hindus and

Muslims from their religions and destroy their social
polity. The result
was the revolt of 1857.

It started on 1 0th May in M'eerut where the sepoys
swarmed into the
prisons, released their comrades, murdered a few
European ofﬁcers
and burnt their homes. The next morning they
galloped to Delhi,
massacred many Europeans and occupied the
palace where ‘they
proclaimed Bahadur Shah Zafar, meanwhile reduc
ed to titular status,
as their leader and Emperor of Hindustan. The
loss of Delhi dealt a
severe blow to the British Empire and it was
not long before they
started trying to regain it.

