Meanwhile revolts broke out like an epidemic in the
western upper Gangetic provinces, parts of Bihar and

Central India — Nasirabad in Rajputana, Nirnach in
Gwalior, Lucknow, Kanpur and Benares in the United
Provinces, Bareilly in Rohilkhand, Bundelkhand,
Jhansi.... The British, initially taken unawares, soon

mustered up their forces and set about suppressing
the revolt. With the help of the not inconsiderable
number of sepoys who had remained loyal to them
and with information gleaned through traitors on
the other side, they sought to retrieve their losses
and prevent the revolt from spreading further. The
battles that ensued were marked by deeds of valou r
and cowardice, loyalty and betrayal, military brilliance
and strategic errors on both sides.
The revolutionary side threw up many heroes whose
names are inextricably linked to the events of 1857.
The Rani of Jhansi joined the revolt because the
British refused to acknowledge her adopted son as
her heir despite the fact that Hindu law sanctioned
such adoptions. A woman of indomitable courage,
she personally entered the fray in male attire and died
a soldier’s death in defence of her land. Nana Saheb
led the revolt in Kanpur which, along with Delhi and
Lucknow, was one of the main centres of the revolt.
He was assisted by his able adviser, Azirnulla Khan,
who eventually emerged as an active organizer
of the revolt across many parts of northern India.
Tantya Tope, who led a contingent of revolutionary
sepoys from Gwalior, ﬁrst joined Nana Saheb in his
campaign in Kanpur and later fought alongside the
Rani of Jhansi in her desperate struggle in Central
India. Begum Hazrat Mahal rallied the forces of
Awadh around her after her husband, Nawab Wajid
Ali Shah had been deposed and imprisoned in
Calcutta. Maulvi Ahrnadulla assisted the Begum
with ﬁery speeches of sedition. The revolt in Bihar
was led by the brave Rajput, Kunwar Singh, who later
left the state and moved from place to place ﬁghting
the British until he fell in his last battle against them
back in Bihar.
However, the real heroes of I 857 were the unsung
civilian populations of northern India who not only
joined the revolt of the sepoys but fought with
courage and wile,often taking independent action on
their own. According to William Dalryrnple in The Last
Mughal, the inhabitants of Delhi, for instance, fought
in defence of their city, street by street, even after the
revolutionary sepoys had retreated and melted into
the countryside. Although the composition of the
civilian ﬁghters varied from place to place, it can be
said that, on the whole, they represented all classes,

castes and communities. Zarnindars, priests, traders,

shopkeepers, peasants, artists, craftsmen, Brahrnins,
Rajputs, Jats, Gujars, Dalits, tribals, all joined in the

strugg le, often in very creative ways. Mutiny historian
William Kaye has noted in his writings that even
travelling puppeteers spread sedition from village to
village through their performances. ”In these shows,”
he wrote, “the Company was regularly larnpooned
and the main character always made to spew hatred
against their rule.” Hindus and Muslims fought side
by side, setting aside their rivalries for a while in the
face of a greater enemy. The Hindu Rani of Jhansi,
for instance, had a loyal bodyguard consisting of 250

Muslim Pathans.
Although seven princely states raised the banner
of revolt against the British and the armies of some
loyalists, like Scindia and Holkar, defected to the
rebel side, the rest of princely India kept out of the
fray. Large numbers of sepoys also remained loyal to
them and in certain states like Punjab and Bengal,
for instance, there was little civilian unrest. Despite
this, the revolt was widespread enough and marked
by sufﬁcient popular support to raise an ongoing
debate on its inspiration and character.
Depending

on

their

ideological

persuasions,

historians and commentators - Indian, British and

others - have described the revolt variously as a
military mutiny, a deep—laid conspiracy, a freedom
struggle, a nationalist peasant uprising and even
the First War of Indian Independence. Bahadur Shah
Zafar appeared to have had few doubts about what
the revolt should be. In one of his ﬁrmans he exhorted
the population to rise up against the foreigners
who had seized power in India. "Of all the blessings
bestowed on man by God,” he wrote,”the greatest is
the gift of freedom. . ..The Almighty no longer wants
you to remain silent because he has awakened the
desire in the hearts of Hindus and Muslims alike to
oust the English from this, our land.”
All historians and commentators however agree that
3857 was a watershed in India’s history. The failure
of the revolt, attributed mainly to Britain’s superior
weapons and organizational skills, brought India
directly under the British crown and, in a sense, also

marked the passage of the country from the old to
the new. It has been famously said that 3857 was a
turning point at which India failed to turn. What India
did instead was to look deeply within herself and
summon up the wisdom and the courage to walk an

unprecedented, non—violent path to freedom.

