When Nadiraji ﬁrst contacted me about writing a play
based on 1 85 7, my book War ofCivi/isations: India 7857 was
in the editing stage. I shared a lot of new material that I
had unearthed for the book with her. This included the
dispelling of several myths. In fact, Nadiraji was equally
interested in presenting a fresh Indian perspective on
1857. She already had the intention of portraying 1857
not merely as a ‘Mutiny’ or ‘Rebellion’ but as India’s First
War of Independence, a mass, nationalist revolution in the
true sense of the term. So we decided to do something
innovative.

The myths which I dispelled in the book included the
defamatory portrayal by the British of Wajid Ali Shah,
Avadh’s last Nawab, the depiction of Bahadur Shah Zafar as
a ‘weak' and ‘reluctant’ revolutionary, the blame on Nana
Saheb for the Bibighar massacre in Kanpur and so on and
forth. Nadiraji was amazed to ﬁnd how British and Indian
historians with a colonial hangover had distorted the
picture of 1857. The fact that Indians won several battles
was suppressed; the fact that Bahadur Shah Zafar was
involved in overthrowing the British from the beginning
was not brought to light; the fact that Wajid Ali Shah was
trying to incite people and the Bengal Army Regiments
against the British, during his journey to Calcutta after
Avadh’s annexation in 1856, was deliberately ignored; the
fact that there was a pact between Sanatan Dharma and
Islam, Pandits and Maulavis to throw out the British from
India was sought to be downplayed. A major injustice was
done also to the role the Muslim Ulema played in ﬁghting
India’s ﬁrst war of Independence.

The aspect of Hindu-Muslim unity—that the 1857 war
presented a shining example of Indian, indigenous, nonwestern secularism, emerging from India’s soil—was
always given short shrift. In 1857, kattar Hindu sepoys
went to Delhi to restore Bahadur Shah Zafar to power;
during her last stand Rani Lakshmi Bai had no ‘Hindu’ with
her—she just had Jhalkari Bai, her Dalit companion, and
250 Muslim Pathans who had sworn on the Koran to die
with her. At Ayodhya, near the site where the Babri Masjid
was demolished, two Hindu Pandits and Maulavis were
hanged by the British. They died hand in hand with only
the national song on their lips.

After getting the perspective right, we wanted to evolve
a story and a structure as 1857 is a massive subject with
several threads. Evolving a plot was a big challenge.With the
help ofVarun Gautam, a famous Murnbai based playwright,
Nadiraji and l were able to thrash out a plot which, while
fulﬁlling the demands of a play, covered the wide scope
of
I 857 as far as possible.We hit upon the idea ofconcentratin
g
on the character of a roving peasant, India’s aam
aadmi—
he is not a ﬁctitious character in the traditional
sense; the

roving peasant is more of a participant and a conscio
us—

