As always I begin by invoking the name of my great Guru, my
revered Ustad, Ebrahim Alkazi, who gave me the insight to

While I have loved every moment of the time I have spent in
thinking, making and living theatre, it would only be honest to

perceive the reality in events and incidents and my parents
Sajjad Zaheer and Razia Sajjad Zaheer who gave me the
sensibility to decide my priorities in the choices that life

admit that till date there has always been a shortage of funds
and l have often had to forgo my need for experimentation

offered and the courage to stand up for them.

the ﬁrst time that I have not had to face a ﬁnancial crunch

and my desire for elaborate costumes, sets, music etc. This is

while doing a production of this scale. For this generosity, I am
All my life I have done theatre not as a favour to society or
to the country but because of my love for it and the belief
that because Of its composite character, it is the greatest of all
artistic expressions.

दु
7°

m

0
_]

O
अ
(/3

Z
O
"‘हैं
m

extremely grateful to the National School of Drama.

I would like to thank Amal Allana, Chairperson, National
School of Drama, for inviting me to do this large canvas play,
Anuradha Kapur, Director, National School of Drama for giving

It was with great joy and gratitude that I accepted the
invitation to direct a play with the NSD Repertory Company,
in the year of the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of the National

Sharma, Chief of the Repertory Company, for being there to

School of Drama. It is indeed a wonderful opportunity.

the production.

It is a great challenge to work on the vast canvas of a project
on 1 $57, the First War of lndependence.The added advantage
of course was the venue, the great Purana Quila [Old Fort].
I immediately plunged into in—depth research of this very
demanding subject and requested Arnaresh Misra, one of the
most eminent historians of our times and a close family friend,
for help. A specialist on the Delhi Sultanate, Arnaresh Misra is
like a walking encyclopedia on the uprising of 1 857.Together
with my co-writerVarun Gautam, who has been my colleague
in theatre for a long time, I researched, discussed, delved deep
into events and took ﬂight on the yearning desires of the
rnatyrs of 1857 to ﬁnally ﬁnd a line that suited my theme.

It was wonderful working again with Kajal Ghosh after
such a long gap. He always stood by me in my early days of

I would like to add here that a social, political and economic
upheaval of the magnitude of 1857 is impossible without the
contribution, the sacriﬁces and the support of the common
masses. While history remembers kings, emperors, generals
and the aristocracy, it is mute about the struggles of the
common man without whom no revolution is possible.
Through this play I want to portray the unsung heroes of this
war for freedom and give them credit for having become the
spine of the massive uprising that shook the foundations of
the British Empire.

Today, in a world that we claim is far more developed and
civilized, we discuss concepts like secularism, pluralism,

religious tolerance, mutual co—existence etc. as if they
were new. Strange as it may seem, I found in my research
complete harmony of approach towards these concepts
among different sects, religions and groups that existed
in an era much maligned by British historians as a dark age
in the history of the Indian subcontinent. That is why two
very important characters, who form the major arteries of
the'theme are two friends, a Hindu and a Muslim. While the
latter is a historical character, the former is a creation of the
writer’s imagination to give shape to my desire to bring forth
this very important facet of Indian culture — mutual tolerance
and the acceptance of diversity.This for me is the strength of
the Indian social and cultural fabric which unfortunately we
seem willing to sacriﬁce in our race towards industrialization,
globalization and economic superiority.

me every support and help during the production and Suresh

iron out problems that cropped up during the preparation of

struggle.
' A word of thanks is due to all the Repertory actors for giving
generously of their time and energy without which this
production would not have become such a joy to me. Thank
you for being my partners during this artistic effort and
supporting me in the hard labour the play demanded. I’ll miss
the warmth and the great times We had together.
I also want to thank the administrative staff and especially the
stage assistants of the Abhirnanch and Sam m u kh theatres
and the staff of the departments of Costumes, Properties, Sets,
Stage and Lights for their unstinting support and assistance.
I would also like to mention Darpan Mishra’s name, who is a
senior member of my Ekjut Theater group.Thank you Darpan
for all your support and dedication.
Thanks are due to my family who gave me the time and
allowed me the freedom to leave home and camp in Delhi for
the long period this play took to shape up and my personal
residential staff who saw to it that I was well looked after and
did not have to worry about running the household so that I
could give my undivided attention to the work at hand.

Delhi has a special place in my heart. This is where I trained
for the theatre. This is where I formed my theatre group and
started producing and directing plays.Rightfrom myﬁrst stage
appearance in The Caucasian Cha/k Circle all through Jasma
Odan, Three Penny Opera and others, the audience of Delhi
has been extremely kind and generous in its appreciation of
my work. Visiting with new productions almost every year, l
have been greeted with the same love and warmth. That is
why I venture to say that perhaps I too enjoy a special place in
the hearts of the theatergoers of this city. I come back to my
old home town with the hope that their love and generous
applause will continue to be a strong source of inspiration
and encouragement to me.

