Darpan Mishra has been working with the Ekjute theatre company
of Mumbai for the past 21 years. He has acted in more than 50
productions and directed plays like Dario—Fo’s Baat Lat Ki Ha/at Ki
(which has had 570 shows till date), Luigi Pirandello’s Sher Afghan and
Sangrarn Sengupta’s Doorbeen.

Souti Chakraborty is a graduate of the National School of Drama and
an artist of its Repertory Company. He has directed G.P.Deshpande's
Chanakya Vishnugupt for the Repertory and designed lights for many
of its productions, including Kafka—Ek—Adhyaya. He participated in an
international theatre workshop for young directors organized by the
Goethe Institut in Berlin.

Bhanu Athaiya, a graduate of the Sir J.J. School of Art, Mumbai, is an eminent costume designer and the winner of the
prestigious Oscar for her work in Richard Attenborough's Gandhi. She was nominated for the same ﬁlm for a BAFTA
award. In India she has received the National Award for costume design for her work in Lekin and Lagaan, the Maharashtra
State award for her costumes in Katha Doan Ganpatrawanchi and the ‘Sunday Observer’ award for her designs in Henna.
Her recent work includes Jabbar Patel’s Babasaheb Ambedkar, Amol Palekar’s Ka/ Ka Aadmi and an Imax ﬁlm by Bruce
Niebauer titled India, Land of the Tiger. She has designed for stage productions directed by Hima Devi, Waman Kendre,
Michael Laube and Draupadi, a ballet by Herna Malini. She works as visiting faculty for Fashion Design and the History of
Western Fashion at the National Institute of Fashion Technology in Mumbai.

JBSIApV queasaa
S J O 10 9 .l I C] 1 U E 1S l S S V

t, free-lance journalist, political commentator,
Amaresh Mishra is a well known historian, script writer, playwrigh
civil rights activist and leader. He has written
political,
a
and
cinema,
columnist on foreign policy, art, culture and
ve, seeking to dispel stereotypes of western
perspecti
Asian
rare,
a
from
western
and
Indian
things
on
uniquely
nationalities. His published works include
Orientalism, and invoke the diverse inﬂuences of Indian cultures and
Manga/ Pandey: The true story ofan Indian
and
novel,
a
Wife,
Minister’s
,
The
biography
city
a
Grace,
of
Fire
Lucknow:
tions: India 7857 is his new, 2000 page,
ofCivi/isa
War
abroad,
Revolutionary. Hailed as a seminal work in India and
magnum opus i n two volumes.

n

o
M
नं
८
3
U
m
2.

Kajal Ghosh trained under Pandit Vishwanath Bose, Acharya Brahaspati and Sulochana Brahaspati has composed music
for more than 200 productions by eminent directors for stage and television. He has also scored music for several Bengali
jatras and dance dramas and for many street plays. His work in ﬁlm has focused on documentaries children's features. A
member of IPTA for over three decades, founder director of the Progressive Songs Squad Parcharn and founder member
of Sahmat, he has represented India at Festivals of India abroad. He has received awards in Poland, Japan and North
Korea as well as the prestigious Sangeet Natak Akademi award for theatre music.

'1

U!

ठप 6!1 Is 135

Ashok Sagar Bhagat, a graduate of the National School of Drama, is a respected stage and light
designer. He has worked for established directors from India and abroad and managed the stage
and technical aspects of the Festivals of India. At present he is Associate Professor at the National
School of Drama, New Delhi, and Visiting Professor at the Indian Theatre I nstitute, Chandigarh and
the Bhartendu Natak Academy, Lucknow. A Sangeet Natak Akademi award winner for excellence
in light design, Ashok Sagar Bhagat was also the Art Director for ﬁlms like Bandit Queen, Jayaganga
and Hazaron Khwaishen Aisi.

u:
:s
m

101381!a 3Isn w

Kriti V. Shanna, a highly regarded costume designer, has worked with
eminent theatre directors like Ebrahim Alkazi,Amal Allana,Anuradha Kapur,
M.K.Raina,John Russel Brown,Wo|fgang Kolneider and Fritz Bennewitz. She
is currently artist in residence at the British School, New Delhi, and visiting
faculty at the National School of Drama.

