ity, with over 200 productions
Joy Michael, founder-director of the Yatrik theatre company, is an erni nent theatre personal
and the'Royal Academy
LAMDA
Delhi,
in
college
s
as actor, director and producer to her credit. An alumnus of St Stephen’
and directed plays in
theatre
Indian
taught
and
England
in
theatre
y
Repertor
in
of Music, London, she has worked
n in India, working in
educatio
of
ﬁeld
the
in
colleges in the United States. She has had an equally successful career
g boards and
governin
the
on
serving
and
Delhi,
New
School,
Thomas
St
of
Principal
the US Education Foundation, as
She has received many prestigious
executive committees of several institutions including the National School of Drama.
Award, the Sahitya Kala Parishad
honours, including the Rockefeller Award, New York, the Delhi Natya Sangh Theatre
Theatre Award, the Raja Ram Mohan Roy National Education Award and the Charnan Lal Award.

theatre.
Anis Azmi, actor, translator, playwright, speech and diction consultant has worked for over two decades in the
of
He also writes for television and has worked as a radio jockey. He is on the visiting faculty of the National School
Drama, the Shri Ram Centre Acting course and the Department of Mass Communications, Meerut University for speech
and diction. His published works include Urdu translations of Badal Sircar’s Juloos and Spartacus, original critical works
like Urdu Theatre Ka/ aurAaj, Paanch Stage Drame and Urdu Theatre, a bibliography published by the National School of
Drama. He has received several awards, including one for Urdu Drama from the Ghalib Institute, Delhi.

n

Dinesh Yadav has a doctorate in Chemistry from Rajasthan University and
a post graduate diploma from the National School of Drama in design and
direction. A free-lance theatre designer, he has worked with eminent directors
and designers from India and abroad and recently also acted in a ﬁlm by
Ranjeet Kapoor.

Motilal Khare is a graduate in dramatic
arts from the Bhartendu Natya Academy,
Lucknow, and is presently employed as an
artist in the National School of Drarna’s
Repertory Company. He has worked with
several Indian and foreign directors.

Sadanand Patil is a graduate of the National School
of Drama and an artist and make up designer in its
Repertory Company. As an actor, he worked for six
years for Rang Vidhushak, Bhopal, under the guidance
of eminent director Bansi Kaul.

0
D
-|
N

'U
3"
m

त्र

5a u a3s 1q 6 !यु

in Indian ﬁlms, he has also worked as stunt coordinator in some foreign ﬁlms. His work as

action director includes tele-serials like The Sword of Tipu Sultan and Devi Choudharani, and as stage ﬁght
choreographer in National School of Drama productions like Romeo and Juliet in Technicolour, Julius Caesar
and Macbeth. He received a Karnataka State award for the stunts directed by him in Shankar Nag’s Accident
and a senior fellowship from the Sangeet Natak Akaderni for research into traditional Indian martial arts. He
is visiting faculty at the National School of Drama.

(D

.i 0330 195

Hassan Raghu, formerly of the Indian Army, is a qualiﬁed instructor in gymnastics from the
National Institute of Sports. Specialising as an action director and master of special effects

3'

O
त्र

5aI3J ad०८।d

Naresh Kumar was trained in contemporary Indian dance by Narendra Sharma and
worked with the Bhoomika Creative Dance Centre for I 3 years, as a Senior Ballet Master
and a lead dancer. He has traveled abroad, participating in workshops conducted by the
American Dance Festival, presenting his work at events organized by India in Moscow and
performing at international modern dance festivals in Germany, Palestine and France.
He has been sought out as a choreographer by many groups, notably the National
School of Drama Repertory Company, and his independent choreographic productions
presented by several prestigious organizations including the Sahitya Kala Parishad.

