Sanjna Kapoor’s passion for theatre is well known. Now her endeavour is to bring
structure to the way theatre is run in the country, she tells RASHM I VASUDEVA
Ireir I called Saruna Kapoor
rather ea 111 in the morning
for tIu interview (not an

horir t
rl\ known to be
preferred by artistes and
celebrities). 1 expected her to be a brt
narked \vrth rue. Instead. when she came
on the phone. 1 heard a warm. laughing
voice r
tiring me that she 100 was a
morningperson.
If you look at her body of work today.
25 years since 11 all began. 11is evident that
\ she did nor reachthis stage without being
an ‘aIl-day and all»night' person. As an
artiste. Sanjna Kapoor Iias gone way he

. yond hei' lineage and surname; the) might
have given her the privilege that she certainlydoes not deny. but she is lierceabout
i claiming her passion and zealousness as
r
l

Growl ngup with theatre

i show... the little instances and the big
I‘ events that come together to create and
I. nurture a show or an artiste... an till:
actual show itself.”Today. for Sanjna, this
cohesion is her biggest and most '१1१11cious' challenge. No longer engaged in
performance. Sanjna's focus has now
shifted to understanding and experienca
ing how the world oftheatre can engage
l with its audience as well as its artistes.
It is this sense of passion and ambition
that drove Sanjna to utter dissatisfaction
when she was still with Prithvi. "When I
g I
L' I
. . i
३ at withsuspidon. Ambition is agood word.
I is it not?" A sense ofjadediicss had over.

takm herand theambition thatshe speaks

TRAI LBLAZER Sanjna Kapoor

company Junoon along with her collaborator andfriend Sarrieeralyerigar in 20l2.
Junoon. true to its name, is all about the
activities and issues Sanjna is passionate
about Junoon works majorly with children across schools in several cities,
through workshops. school sessions and
through collaborations with likeminded
companies and people. It is also getting
people to talk about theatre through its
manyoutreach programmes such as the
‘Mumbai boc ’. "With Mumbai Local. w
select a public place such as a bookshop
or amuseum or alibrary andengage with
the community of the area क्वे there are
talks by celebrated artistes where they
share their personal experiences and their
journey with acting and theatre." Several
well-known artistes including the likes of
- I ९1११1१ have taken part inthese
sessions. “It is incredible what real stories
from real people can do to imaginations
rr.

She did grew up with theatre all around
her though. almost physically so. “I was
10 runningaround barefoot inour house.
when my mother used to hold up blue
printsduring breakfastsand have long(115cussionswith the architectfor the budding
of PrithviTheatre."she narrates, This was
back in 1978 when her star father Shashi
Kapoorand his wife Jenniferwere building
Prithvi because they wanted a place for
the kind of theatre that appealed to them
— a home for their love and for Sanjna's
grandfather, the legendary Prithviraj
.‘ Kapoor's Prithvi Theatres. whichwas then
a travelling company. Sanjna loves blue
, prints ever since. “For me. theatre is as
l much about the physical space as it is
. about actors. costumes andacting. In fact.
दृ 1 woulddefine theatre as an engagement
दृ of aunts with Spaces — and what this in»
'| teracrionproduca."
.
I
Her immersion in theatre and the arts
did not end there. Sanjna's maternal
r grandparents, Geoffrey Kendal and his
-१ wife Laura. were also a well-known the
acre couplewho had famously toured all
over India with their corrrpany Shake. speareana, and Sanjna's bedtime stories
. were many times straight out of Shake
speare. In her early teens. she wenton a
रै theatre tourwith her matemal grandpari ems all over India and Ireland. Kapoor
। remembers that experience a an i nvalu»
r ablepart of her theatre education. “Ibeहैं gan to realise that theatre is as much
' about the things that happen around the

and conversations,"says Sanjnri.

gramme speci
groups. "Theati t
reuardrng. but men in the arts. it is in

11111111 to folloir the seierrtilica
With SMART. Sarrrrra llupcSto restructure
thehapha/anl .r r r ddisoitlei'td way rhea ire
is rtiit in the country 11 Itile still allomrrg
for creativefreedom and artistic tent pent
IIICIIKS.

“I do theatre because 11 "utters to me
and I believe ’ 'rtt ' ‘ ।all our lives.The

2

‘ of had no articulation. ‘ is my deepest
sorrowthat the work we didat Prithvi did Driven byexcltement
not inspire people enough to build marry Her excitement is palpable. Recently in
Prirhvis. In a nation of imitators. we had Bangalore. Jiinoon collaborated withSubno one but Ranga Shankara to flatter us. limeGalleria's art conference for children.
५ Why. why is itthat nobody wantsto follow ‘Bcrscrk20l6'. wherechildren bCIWLVHI8
in Prithvi‘s footsteps?" she asks in anguish. 14 yearsof age were encouragedto explore
She has the answer herselfto this rather their artistic inclinationsand spend a few
es to understandtheir ere
sad question: "Perhaps it needstriad peo- dayswith

l DO
THEATRE
BECAUSE IT
MATTERS TO
ME AND I
B E Ll EV E IT
MATTERS TO
ALL OUR L lV ES.
THEATRE IS AS
INTIMATE AND
PERSONAL AS
IT IS PUBLIC
AN D
G RANDl OSE. "

Theyget to meetcarcer artistes andlearn
whatinspires them.“ Sanjna rues that our
education system still considers art and
theatre as afringe activity. “Wedon't hold
creativity at the creme of our education;
onlyif we focus on creativity. irnag'inan'on
and innovation in a scientiﬁcand logical
manner can we hope to train individuals
for thejobsofthe future." Who am predict
what jobs will be around in the next
decade.she asks. “Didanybody imagine a
decade ago that digital graphics andanimation technology would best: a
nced
today? How will children be prepared for
such cancers if we don‘t make them understandthe value of the ans?"
A valid question. ifthere has one. Ina
bid to tackle this lacunae. a group of six
people. including Sarnna Kapoor; have
come together to form 'SMART, a oneofrrrs-kind th tr'

plc like me and Arundhati (Nag) to drown

alive proee

5 leads me to ask Sanjna

This was one of the primary reasons

aboutIierexperit rceofwnrkrrrgwrrhehrl~
dreit. "It is a trnnsformati ' ५
"1०९क्ष०९ग४।1::1।१९४ ९९111।।

why she eventually quit l‘nthvialter work
iitg tirelessly for years.and began her own

encounter" for cItiIdr'e where they get a
peek into the world of performing arts.

prime realestate in है passion that is not a
. ‘payingproposrtion‘."

true is its intimate
he and gran it

id personal.b it IS pub
It is this paradigm of

theatre thnr thegranddaughterol l‘rrthw
ra’ Kapoor wantsto mmey toor cry person
६118111८९'15 1 ruined. quite the perfect trrbtite
to her grandfather '५ legiit‘}

