5 H R I R A M CENTRE ACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was
originally known as the Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding
a revival in the Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural
organization, its objective is to nurture and develop talent in the
performing arts and its programmes are organised towards this
end.

A
८३

Theatre Repertory :

a

Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of
the leading companies of the country. The repertoire of
oustanding plays performed by the repertory including Sakhararn

2'.

८
II‘

Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya Woh Jammai Nahin, Babuji and

Pagla Ghoda have contributed significantly to Hindustani drama
in the country. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, the
Repertory also stages sponsored shows in other parts of the
country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western
and modern plays in various styles and forms under the direction

9-

7

<
A

of such eminent directors as Habib Tanvir, B.V. Karanth,
Rajendranath, B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti, Chitrayan
n.

Tripathi, Bapi Bose, Urrnil Kumar Thapliyal, etc. The Repertory
has performed 59 Hindi plays since its inception.

Acting Course :
To encourage young- amateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for
Performing Arts conducts a two year part time training ,
programme. The 1 st year is devoted to in-depth study an all
aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills
learnt are integrated into production on Indian-classical,

Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures :

The Shri Ram Memorial lectures held annually since 1986 are
aimed at presenting and documenting the life-time achievements
of theatre luminaries of the century. The three days lecture
sessions delivered earlier by such famous theatre personalities
as Utpal Dutt, Habib Tanvir, Badal Sircar, Nemichand Jain, Vijay
Tendulkar etc. have been published by us for theatre posterity.

Children T h e at re Works hop :
The SRC Children's Theatre Workshop is a one-month production
oriented workshop conducted during Summer vacation every year
under the guidance of a renowed Camp director. This feature is
aimed to impart theatrical values to children and to improve their
communication skills.

ARCHANGI

prepare a professional team .of actors to sustain the Hinditheatre's future. Students who complete the course with excellent
grades are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National
School of Drama or the Media.

‘

experimental, Western and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to

