11, ()IJTI1
.................................................................................... 11.133

Exerv time the Ramayana is read out as a holy text.

A [11.(3

८ 3८
: i t i s: meat; १: i or i a 1L ; ,हृ३ : ,
one seat in the audience is; kept crtipt}

as a performance artist at the age of 22.
A large part of his understanding of
Ramayana as well as Mahabharata. thus, is
influenced by Chawla and their collaborations since. “We began to wonder if
Ramayana looks at a dream nation and its
collapse. and. when we look around us. why
does it keep happening overand over again?
The decay that begins in Ramayana in a way
carries forward in the Mahabharata." says
Vinaykurnar.who. through Adishakti’s per—
formances has often attempted to explore
the idea ofa “collective”. He says: “A collec—
tive may bebased on one single ideology. a
utopian idealism, be it right Wing or left
wing. But is the collective really a singular
identity or is it more complex because it is
made up of many individuals with their
own minds? And what happens when one

Heads Will Roll
What do you get when both tern i nist writer
Sarah Joseph and herson Vinaykurnar Kd retell
the Ramayana?

individual decides to step away from the colIN A land of many cultures, religions and

lective; does it then collapse?"
These questions. which seem relevant

languages, the three often overlap.
Vinaykurnar KJ believes that most of

even today. have been explored in The

India's youth is bound to. at some point.
set out in search for their identity. to uri—
derstand the complexities of their roots.
"There is so much history and baggage that

Tenth Head. lt borrows from the imagery

one has no choice but to stand atop itand

subsequent ones keep getting smaller till
the last one is no bigger than a circle with
three dots that represent the face with eyes

of Ravan’s 10 heads that emerged in 17th
century. where the first ﬁve are the same

size. the fifth is the central head and the

negotiate. At such times. you turn to the

stories of the land and wonder who are
you really?" says Vinaykurnar. who heads
Adishakti. the acclaimed Pondicherrybased performance arts company. since
renowned thespian Veenapani Chawla's
demise earlierthis year.

Born and raised in Kerala. Vinaykurnar.
43. is a Christian. in the late 19805, as he

५a

wasstepping into his 205. thedilemma re—
garding his identity trudged him towards
the Ramayana. The epic. which he contin-

ues to explore through his works. today
formsa large part ofthe storiesperformed
by Adishakti. Take. for instance,
Nidrawatham, which looks
at
Kumbhakania and Lakshman. the brothers of the two protagonists in the
Ramayana; or their latest production. The

Tenth Head. based on Ravan's 10th head
that has broken away from the rest and at-

tempts to understand itselfin isolation.
For Vinaykurnar.the exposure to Hindu

mythology came early. His mother, noted

ME A STORY

and the mouth. “How does this 10th head
feel as part of a powerful collective like
Ravan? Can it negotiate space for itself?"
saysVinaykurnar.

Retelling the Ramayana byCNS Nair
and SarahJoseph (above) ;
Vinaykurnar K] with the cast in a
scenefrom The Tenth Head
0 ०o

While Vinaykurnar’s ideas have been
drawn up from his collaboration with

Chawla for over two decades. the influence

feminist and author SarahJoseph intro-

, rather unﬂattering take onthe events of the

duced her young son to the texts.
“Sometimes. there would bediscussions on

epic. “Itlooks at the war between Ramand

the characters between my motherand her.
friends." he says.
Joseph. 69. is known for her subaltern
retellings of Ramayana that include the

Malayalam novel Oorukaaval (The Vigil.
translated in English by Vasanthi I
Sankaranarayanan), told from the point of
view ofVali's son Angadan. It begins. with
his father's death and continues till Sita’s
rescue; the narrative allows a different, and

Ravan as one basedon casteand thegotras
they both belongto.” sastoseph. whoalso
looks at contemporary issues in India and
the world and attempts to draw parallels
with instances from the epic.
Joseph. who recently returned her

Sahitya Akademi award for Aalahayude
Penmakkal (Daughters of God the Father).
explains that her interest in the epics is
rooted in her own quest for an identity.
Initially. she had wanted to be a nun. but
u»

ﬂair W.

_ V ,पंडा _

Joseph turned to writing and went “in
search of Christ outside ofthe Church". In
Othappu. she explores a woman's yearn—
ing for the spiritual as well as the sexual
and wonders if the two can co-exist. “The
same quest led me to look at the epics."
addsJoseph.
One of the leading ﬁgures of the feminist movement in Kerala.Joseph examines
women characters in Valmiki‘s version of
the epic as individuals in Ramayana
K’athakal. in one story. Surpanakha meets
Sita in the forest after Ram has banished

her. Shetells the formerqueen that the men
who disfigured and humiliated her for
merer expressing her sexual desires will

not treat Sita any better.
While Joseph looks at the Ramayana
from a subaltern perspective, her son's
retellings are an “internal exploration".

“Ramayana is the only story where one can
ﬁnd lofty ideas such as that ofa just nation.
notionsofsocietal behaviour. leadership and

a nation‘s expansion. And they hold true
even today." says Vinaykurnar. ln 1993, he

joined Adishakti.formed by Chawla in 1981.

of his mother's perspective remains. too.
The artiste. who did his BA (Theatre Arts)

from the University of Calicut and later
trained in Kathakali from Krishnan
Namboodri. plays the 10th head in the
play. In its attempt to search for its own
identity. the head ponders over his views
on Sita and her abduction. which may not
necessarily be the same as that of the col—
lective. “The individuality of a woman.
these are my early lessons and they often
overlap with my own quest for identity,"

says Vinaykurnar.

