Director's Note
to
It all started with a chance meeting, I had with a doctor friend from Surat Dr. Pradip Pethe. He happened

describe his first hand experience in Bhachau, where he had led a team of doctors to provide medical help to
the victims, the day after the quake, as a voluntary effort. His description of how they discovered children and
adults in remote villages, with crushed or broken legs, arms, head or spine—sitting out in the cold without even

a pain killer till four or five days after the quake; how people sat stunned near the debris hoping their dear
ones might still be alive and be saved; how people moved restlessly working for material remains in the
debris. He also told of large scale voluntary mobilization by way of community kitchens. extricating &
burning dead bodies, distributing relief material as against shocking political & administrative callousness
and inaction. In that brief conversation, the scale and dimension of the human tragedy involved hit me very

strongly. Sitting here in Delhi, inspite of a daily exposure to the TV. images, I had related to the tragedy
brieﬂy, and ﬁnally salved my conscience by contributing to the relief operations in cash and kind.

Suddenly I felt that it would be worth while to explore the implications of such a colossal tragedy through a
play, which might sensitize the students towards such events.

So we set about the task and two of my colleagues-Dinesh Khanna and Abhilash Pillai went to Bhuj and the
nearby towns and villages for a week and met many earthquake victims. They brought back a great deal of
documentary material-books, articles, video coverage and photographs, which were shown to the students
and the irnprovisatory work on evolving a play started.
The improvisations began with reliving personal experiences of loss — and moved into the stories we had
collected. During this process several questions about why are we doing this? What do we want to say?
Whether the quake would have altered the values of that society etc. kept cropping up.
And then, our work got slightly derailed when the communal riots hit Gujarat, because we wondered if we
needed to change focus. But eventually we decided to go ahead with our initial project, though our interpretation

did get coloured by the recent events in Gujarat. This intervention also led us to making a deeper study of the
Gujarati society and its history - to understand the contradiction that were emerging. We also learnt an important
lesson that it is very difficult to make any in-depth analysis of such a big event — so soon after it has happened.
The production as it has emerged is based largely on the improvisations done by students. It does not attempt
to recreate the scale of the tragedy - because we simply cannot. Instead we focussed on understanding and

exploring the sense of devastation, loss, dislocation, emotional trauma and contradictions through some of the
real stories. The characters therefore are drawn from the ones my colleagues met during the trip, and also

from some newspaper reports. The situations in the play are based on first hand experiences narrated to us by
people we interacted with during the process.

I would like to express my special gratitude to Dr. Pethe who set me on this enriching adventure; Dinesh who
sat up till late every night writing and rewriting the script; and to Abhilash Pillai, who was with me tirelessly

through out the process, and without whom the production would not have been possible. Thanks also to B.
Gauri who wrote three short scenes for the play as we were running out of time. And of course the second
year students who have worked very hard in attempting to cope with this difficult task with great enthusiasm.

Kirti Jain

