15 December
KANNI
(in Marathi/Konkani)

Produced by : Kala Shuklendu, Goa
Written by : Vinayak Khedekar
Directed by : Vijay Thali
Synopsis
The theme is inspired by a legend from the village of Chandor,

originally known as Chandrapur, capital of the Kadamba Dynasty.
Sheelwati, beautiful young village woman, is married to a poor man.

She is highly respected by the village folk for her character and
devotion to her husband.
The Rajkumar, son of the King, comes to know about Sheelwati

and decides to marry her. But this is not an easy task. When all

persuasion fails, he implores the King to get Sheelwati for him. The
King initially discourages the Rajkumar but ultimately succumbs to
filial pressure.
The King sends his soldiers to bring Sheelwati to his court.
Sheelwati’s husband is killed by the soldiers, the villagers reduced to
mute spectators. Sheelwati threatens suicide and curses the villagers
for their cowardice. The villagers are then united and rise against
the King. The King is killed and the Rajkumar disﬁgured for his
misdeeds.

Director’s Note
This production is conceived after the traditional dance-drama
called Jagar, performed by the tribal Kunbi-Gavda community every
year as ritual. The original style has essentially been retained in
respect of dance, music, movements, costumes, etc. The effort is to

project the life and expression of the Kunbi—Gavda community.

Cast and Credits
Sheelvati: Sushan Tendulkar; Sheelvati‘s Husband: Ganpatrao
Chodanker; King/Ganpati: Vivek Shirali; Queen: Suvarana
Tendulkar; Vayudas: Acchyut Dond; Turmati: Pradeep Gavade &
Premanand Naik; Parpati: Arvind Gavade and Pandurang Pangam;
Nikhandar: Pandurang Gavade & Devidas Amonkar; Others: Vijay

Thali, Ajay Vaidya, Sitaram Singhal, Ravi Kurdikar, Vinay
Khandeparkar, Narhar Thakur, Manjiri Kelkar, Chhaya Bhate,

'

Subha Khedekar, Chetana Gujjikar.
Musicians: Kanta Gavade, Mohan Gavade, Manohar Gavade,
Ladu Gavade, Satish Kerkar, Tulsidas Gavade, Rajendra Tamba;

Music: Pandurang Phaldesai, Ajay M. Vaidya: Sets: Premanand
Naik; Lights: Parag Kelkar; Make-up: Suresh Shirodkar;
Costumes: Manjiri Kelkar.

Vijay Thali (b. 1946)
॰ Vijay Thali has been active in theatre for a decade. He has
directed many plays in different forms and styles, Satish Alekar‘s .
Mahanirvan, Ratnakar Matkari’s Lok Katha 78 and Nikhare to name
a few.

