3

16 December
'I‘IDO RAO
(in Rajasthani)
Adaptation of Shri Vijay Dan Detha’s Story by Harish
Bhandani
Directed by: Afsar Hussain
Synopsis

_

Tido Rao is a simpleton, weak in body and mind, but

circumstances and accident turn him into a very respected Acharya
and ﬁnally a King.
One day, while playing the Dholak, Tido kills a fly; this makes
him believe he can attempt greater deeds. With this in mind he
leaves for his father-in-law’s village, and is soon taken for a very
respectable Bhopa. His fame takes him to the king, for whom he
performs astonishing feats. He discovers the Naulakha Har, saves
the city from the demons, defeats the neighbouring king single
handedly. He finally becomes the king.

Director’s Note
The production is inspired by various Rajasthani theatrical forms,
styles of narration in song like those of Padh, Ramrnat, etc. Dandia
dance and acrobatics have also been drawn upon. Various local
musical instruments have been used, like Dedariya, Padpadia,

Ravanhatha and Morchang. Traditional choreography has been
suitably adapted for the production.

Cast & Credits
Tido Rao: Tanveer Malavat; Malang (Bhopa): Anand Acharya;
Thakur, Chorus: Madhu Acharya; Rajaji: Vishnu Kant; Kaka,

Hajaria, Bhoot: Major; Choudhariji, Gadha, Topsingh, Chor;
Avinash Vyas; Maan Rajkumar: Kavita Vyas; Pinchaji, Pandit,
Sasur, Grarnin: B.R. Vyas; Gheesiyo, Gadha, Bhoot, Chor:
Narendra Acharya; Chorus: Rajeev Lochen, Jagdeep Bissa, M.
Rafiq, Jarneel Sodha, Urnesh Sevag, Ram Maroo, Sanyog Vyas,
Anubhav Vyas; Thakurain: Neelarn; Grarnin: Shelam Sharma;

Kurnharin: Aneema Harsh.

Sets: Jagdish Sharma, Avinash Vyas, Hari Singh; Lighting:
Manohar Kalansh; Make-up: Avinash; Costumes: Nibha Joshi,

Mamta; Production convenor: Vishnu Kant; Stage Manager: Vidhya
Sagar; Nagara, Morchang, Ravanhatha: Gamji Ustad & others;
Cooperation: Raj Narayan Vyas, Madho Singh, Poonarn Chand &
o th ers .

Afsar Hussain (b. 1951)
Afsar Hussain is a graduate of the National School of Drama,
New Delhi with ten years’ experience in direction, acting, stagecraft,
ﬁlm & TV. He has conducted 20 workshops in Rajasthan, U.P.,
MP. and Delhi, working with deaf artists, children and tribals.

