18 December
VITHO RAKHUMAY

(in Marathi)
Produced by: Theatre, Bombay

Written by : Ratnakar Mat-kari
Directed by: Vijay Kenkre

Synopsis
Lord Vitthal is fond of his devotees who, according to his spouse
Padubai, encroach upon his time and privacy. She discourages his
devotees’ visits, which makes Lord Vitthal sad.

Tulsi, a saintly girl abandoned by her poverty-striker) father,
attempts to end her life. She is saved by Lord Vitthal who gives her
shelter. But Padubai becomes jealous of Tulsi and starts nagging
Lord Vitthal who, in spite of lack of any desire for Tulsi,
deliberately decides to marry her. This infuriates the‘Queen who
plots to kill Tulsi. Tulsi sees through the strategy of the Queen and,
to prove her purity and the Lord’s innocence, disappears into the
earth, only to resurrect as a Tulsi plant. Lord Vitthal, in his wrath,

curses the Queen that she would die at sunset.
But after Padubai’s death, he is miserable. His favourite devotee

Mali Raya prays to the Sea God to return the Queen. The Sea God
ultimateiy yields up the Queen’s remains, to be immersed in a pond
at Pandharpur to bring her back to life.
The ritual over, the Queen reappears, but is now beyond marital
happiness or desire. She is only a mother, Rakhurna, or Rakhumay
to her devotees. Mali Raya builds two separate temples for Vithoba
and Rakhumay. Pandharpur becomes a sacred place of pilgrimage.

Directror’s Note
The play has been conceived after Dhangari Gaja of Northern
Maharashtra. In addition Varkari Kirtan, Dindi and Khele have

been used. The production does not treat social relevance in terms
of burning contemporary issues. It takes a larger view which
includes magic and myth which are at the root of many human
conflicts.

Cast and Credits
Sets: Shafahat Khan; Lighting: Siraj Khan; Music: Vikas
Bhatawadekar; Costumes: Pradhya Phadke; Jayawant Wadkar;
Sushma Savarkar; Nandoo Gadgil; Renuka Shahane; Milind
Kanthak; Vivek Anaokar; Pradeep Sule; Ashok Deore; Ashutosh
Datar; Tushar Dalvi & others.

Vijay Kenkre (b. 1959)
Vijay Kenkre has worked under the direction of directors like
Amol Palekar, Damoo Kenkre, Dilip Kolhatkar, Purushotam Berde,

etc. He has been associated with many theatre groups in Bombay
such as Goa Hindu Association, Avishkar, Roopvedh, Mumbai
Marathi Sahitya Sangh, etc.

W

