_

19 December
CHANDA BEDNI
(in Bundeli)
Produced by: Rashmi Rathi, Bhopal
Written and Directed by: Alakhanandan
Synopsis
Chanda Bedni is a dancer whose art and beauty are legendary. A

young Brahrnin falls in love with her and, unlike other men, wants
to marry her and settle down. Chanda understands his sincere
emotion but is also aware of possible social problems and

prejudices. She tests him by demanding that he change his style of
living as a condition for marriage. The Brahmin agrees and even
goes beyond her expectations. Preparations are made for the
marriage. Sindoor is brought. The Brahmin waits. But the Bedni fills
her hair-parting and dances the dance of selfannihilation.

Director’s Note
The play in its present form, is the product of experiments with
the script at rehearsal stage. The folk elements in the play are not a
conscious, imposition but have merged intuitively. Several folk
strains (Maach, Rai Swang, etc.) can be found in it, but no single

form dominates.
The two other noteworthy features are the use of Bundeli,_ and the
lyrics. The Bundeli language has its own expressive rhythm. The
lyrics are not merely decorative but an integral part of the action
itself.

Cast and Credits
Chanda: Ranjana Bhatt; Sadhu: Rakesh Kabir; Chola Mandali:
Ashok Sharma, Rajesh Litoriya, Punit .Verma, Ashok Pathak;

Anewala: Pravin Gautam; Munni: Magha Pal; Mridangiya: Ariup
ha;
rab
Sau
an
Irf
a:
Raj
i;
sth
Awa
r
nka
Sha
i
Kal
i:
rch
ndo
Dhi
hi;
Jos
Police: Vijay Gupta; Parasher Sarnaj; Anil Agarwal, Arvind
Bilgaiyan; Raj Darbari: Saffan, Sabir, Narendra Rajput, Alirn;
Sipahi: Satya Dev Sharma; Swang-Wala: Somelal Ahirwar; Dholakwala: Surendra Wankhade; Chorus: Savitri Raikwar, Tulsi Yadav,
Urned, Dhani Ram.

Music: Om Prakash Chourasia; Special music effects: B.V.
Karanth; Mujra singer: Ranjana Bhatt; Music assistance: Urnakant
Gundecha, Rajiv Singh (harrnonium), Sanjay Mishra (Tabla),

Surendra Wankhede, Anup Joshi (Dholak); Lights: Irfan Saurabh;
Art Assistance: Devilal Patidar; Dance effects: Ramlal, Ramsahey
Pandey, Sadhurarn; Assistance: Vijay Shrivastava, Suchitra
Dakwala, Abha Mishra.

Alakhnandan (b. 1948)
Alakhnandan has been active on the stage from‘73. He has
directed Waiting for Godot and Bakri in Chattisgarhi dialect,
Mahanirvan, Adhe Adhure, Judge, End Game, etc in Hindi and Adhe

Adhure in Bengali. Assisted Mani Kaul in the film Sarah se Uthta
Admi. Recently directed Banjh Ghan’ for Rangmandal, Bhopal.

_

ा

क्य

