9th APB meetof dramaschools from (lctT9—2S ३
को ’ St

Reporter

‘ ~11 ,३ ew Delhi

The conﬂuence will examine contemporary per-

Overall the festi८ val will see the

The “National School of

formance culture in Asia,

Drama (NSD) ' is going to

the elements of tradition-

representation

host the 9th Asia Paciﬁc
Bureau (APB) meet of
drama schools here from
October 19 to ~25.
,,

alism, modernisation and

from 20 countries

other factors that have
in form of obcontributed to it in terms
servers, faculty
of content, form and style.
As many as 14 schools
This annual meeting is
and students
including the NSD and 13 one of the most interestschools from 10 countries
ing international level the- participants. There will
including
Bangladesh, atre festivals that provide also be a practical session,
China, Indonesia, Iran, a platform to theatre where a studio space will
Japan,
South
Korea,
schools of the Asia Paciﬁc be provided to each school
Malaysia,
Philippines, Region. The participating to perform. Participating
Singapore and Thailand schools will dive into and schools will perform a 45are taking part for the an— explore the nuances of dif- minute student presentation, which will be held in
nual meet of theatre ferent cultures in theatre
schools of the Asia-Paciﬁc performances and the the Flexible Performance
Space at NSD.
Region.
technical aspects ofit.
Waman Kendre, DirecOverall the festival will
This edition of the festi—
see the representation val has an elaborate learn- tor, National School of
from 20 countries in form
ing program for the Drama, says, “This is yet
of observers, faculty and
participating schools. It another occasion where all
students, said the ofﬁcials
will consist offestival per— Asia Paciﬁc Bureau school
will show their strength
concerned of the NSD.
formances,
directors’
Preparations are on full meet, interactions and and exchange it to each
swing at NSD to ensure a workshops. Each school other. This is also a platsmooth conduct of the
will conduct a workshop form for NSD to show rich
event. The theme of this for all other participants ' Indian performance heredition of this meet is
providing a glimpse into itage and showcase con“The strength of Asia in the school’s
training temporary and traditional
Contemporary Perform- methodologies through a theatre variety to the
ance Culture.”
series of exercises for the world.”

The idea that the Asia
Paciﬁc region has a di—
verse culture different
from the western theatre
needs to be explored and ,
exchanged among theatre
artists, playwrights, and
also the audiences, led to

the establishment of the
Asia Paciﬁc Bureau (APB)

of theatre schools. Every
year, the APB meet creates

opportunities for theatre
students and teachers to ३
interact with each other in
multiple ways — by way of
sharing their philosophies
in a workshop environment, in pedagogy outlined in a presentation by ३
the faculty members, and
in practice, in a show that

each school prepares to
showcase in the week—long
festival.
Tripurari Sharma, Professor, NSD, who is head—
ing this edition of the APB
meet, says, “Cross culture

mixing and matching
themes, stories and perfornlative concepts are enriching for the art of
theatre.”
J
a”

