I still await the poetry welling up

is simply an admission of ignorance.
When someone flaunts ignorance

from the teachings of evolution. When
the soul hungers for greater compre-

this way, stating that matter of sub-

hension and man's greatest joy is the
search for life as it actually is, the

stance are of a nature that the universe
must have developed in such and such

artist comes into his most inspiring

a way—and that matter is everlasting,

chaHengenn

then we must cry out that materialism

People in their craving for the

has gone bankrupt, when it comes to

answer to the riddle of life, yet understanding it so little, imagine they have

solving the enigma of life. Actually,
and this I 'm prepared to concede, I

reached a solution by creating a God

don't think there is much initial

from whom everything springs and

difference between my approach and

who is truly the Almighty.They ignore

one I’m criticizing. In the final analy-

that this God also demands an origin.

sis of course there is a great difference.

Avoiding this demand by merely

My search opens the door for further

making Him ornnipotent and eternal

research. The other shuts it.

—From the writings of Dr Hansen

Gerhard Henrik Hansen (1841 -191 2) was a Norwegian physician. History remembers him for the discovery of the leprosy bacillus (Mycobacterium Leprae),
in 1874. Hansen began his study of leprosy at the Bergen Leper Hospital, where
he was assistant medical officer. Having demonstrated that the disease can be con-

tagious, Hansen was given financial backing by the Medical Society of Christiania
(now Oslo) to enable him to continue his investigations. He was instrumental in

having the Norwegian Government take measures to reduce the incidence of the
disease in the country and his policy of isolation of lepers is thought to have had

the same general effect throughout Europe. His contribution to the study of
leprosy is immortalized in its technical name—Hansen’s Disease. His advocacy of

the isolation of ’lepers’ from the rest of society also lives on—in the continuing
ostracisrn of those stricken by the bacillus.

