This is the frightening side of the
picture. One of the darkest elements
in it is that leprosy does not manifest
itself for a long time after the infection
has entered the body, and it is only
when the symptoms shed the last traces
of ambiguity that the infected person-

changed the medical outlook towards
leprosy; improvements in reconstructive surgery also hold out new hope to
those who have suffered deformities.
But leprosy control remains a massive
challenge because the average person
still finds the very name of the disease

and the family and community—have
to face up to it. Even then, the decision

terrible and repugnant.

within a family is often to hide the
problem instead of seeking the treat-

It has to be done by a relentless effort
to make the truth known. Dread of an

ment that would prevent its becoming

affliction so long regarded as a super-

a tragedy.

natural curse can be overcome—was

Leprologists know how to spot the
tell-tale signs once they begin to appear

there not a time when no one believed
smallpox could ever be vanquished, or

But early detection depends largely 'on
the general practitioner and the commu-

tuberculosis sanatoria abolished?

n ity worker. It also depends on family

leprosy will only be overcome when

and friends.

people learn—and accept—that it is

This is the truth about leprosy.
Today, given community support and
correct care, leprosy patients can retain
their place in society and eventually put

How can this attitude be changed?

The particular dangers posed by

curable, that its control—even while it
still holds back many secrets from the
researcher—is no longer an impractical
dream. The first step towards this goal
must be the one that Mahatma Gandhi

the experience of sickness behind them
to return to a full and normal life. The

often recalled: the conquest of fear.

scientific and technological advances

Once that step is taken by enough people

of the last 30 years have completely

the tide will begin to turn against this
age-old scourge.

— Razia lsrnail

