ABOUT T H E PROJECT

It all started sometime last Novem-

life.

It is not born of philosophy, but

ber, with UN lCEF’s idea of employing

the difficult conditions of survival. . . .

theatre workshops as a means of under-

dust dries up the emotions.

standing attitudes towards leprosy. It

In Puri is the Lokenath Temple,

seemed a strange proposal, unnerving

the religious asylum for the leprosy

and discomforting—yet challenging.

patients. . . .cerernonial suicide of such

Alarippu which was in an embryonic

patients (outcasts) is a part of social

stage then was uncertain of taking up

life. . . .yet their hands are productive

the task. Leprosy is a simple disease,

and their bastis (even in graveyards) are

yet our attitude towards it is so con-

beautiful examples of community

ditioned that we find it difficult to

living. Rejected by society, they try to

accept this truth. Needless to say, it

carve out an existence somehow. The

called for a lot of introspection; a

irony is that prejudice does not allow

game of hide and seek that has car-

them to do a number of things they

ried on ever since. The process also

are capable of, which compels them to

implied exploring a different role for

be a burden.

a theatre workshop, viz. to be at the

They survive somehow, but limita-

receiving end. The National School

tions curtail dreams and desires smoth-

of Drama Repertory's willingness to

ered by anguish or indifference, seize

participate in the experiment has boos-

talent and energy. To live with dignity

ted the effort.

is not a sirnple way for them. A present

The process took one to strange
habitations, hospitals, bastis and ash-

of even a wooden cart brings joy. . . .
“Kath ki Gadi” draws extensively

rarns. It was only at Gandhi Memorial

on these experiences. The characters are

Leprosy Foundation, Wardha, while

drawn largely from people one met.

observing villagers treat leprosy patients

The focus is on two actual persons.

as equals, that my resistance was shed

Events mingle and flow into one anoth-

and a willingness to know more was

er. There are inherent connections, yet

generated. Theatre workshops at War-

the structure is a bit loose. There is lit-

dha (conducted by Mahesh Nayak and

tle ’drama’ in it and not much effort

Jena) and at Purulia by me, added to

has been made to make it so. Images,

the experience. On the weather-beaten

questions, descriptions and certain

stony tracks of Purulia, walking to im-

moments, have found their place. It

poverished villages, one realised that

is more like an essay than a finished

indifference and self denial is a way of

play—one of those initial attempts that

