while probing a subject, tries to begin

analysis. This not only added but also

a dialogue. Unfinished as it may be,

led to a lot of changes in the original

it is dedicated to the effort and will of

script. Scenes Six, Seven and Eight are

leprosy workers and patients who are

primarily a result of this collective ef-

fighting for a better deal from society.

fort. It is with deep gratitude that I

This presentation is not the work

acknowledge their intense involvement

of a single person alone. Friends like

with the issue. Without their criticism,

Rati/ and Laxmi have participated even

patience and cooperation, the experi-

before a word was written. Actors have

ment would probably never have

contributed not only by suggestions,

reached an audience.

but by improvising a lot of situations,
—Tr i pu ra r i Sha r ma

drawing on their memory, reflexes and

T R I P U R A R l SHA R M A
Born on 3lst July 1956; after

performed and published recently. Her

Senior Cambridge graduated in English

other plays like ”Vikramaditya ka

from Delhi University. From her

Nyayasan” and ”Birsa Munda” have

student days she has been active in the

been performed; the latter extensively

literary, cultural and organisational

in the tribal areas of Bihar and Chhat-

activities of the University. Later she

tisgarh (M.P.). All her plays are con-

joined the National School of Drama

cerned with the present day realities

and passed with a diploma in direc-

and are provoking.

tion. She has been a freelance theatre

Tripurari has also been associated

worker ever since. In the past five

with the Street Theatre Movement and

years, Tripurari has worked with

was an active coordinator of the Street

theatre groups in Madhya Pradesh,

Theatre Festival organised by the

Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh,

Sangeet Natak Akaderni at Bhopal last

Kerla, Tamil Nadu, and Rajasthan. She

year.

has directed sixteen plays and has been
creatively associated with 19 plays

The present production is a result

produced in theatre workshops, con-

of her keen interest in the subject of

ducted at different places all over the

leprosy for which she conducted an

country. She has translated a number

extensive research tour in the states of

of Indian and western plays into

Maharashtra, West Bengal, Orissa, U .P.

Hindi. She has also conducted work-

and Delhi, and evolved a basic struc-

shops in neighbouring countries such

ture for the play. The final product,

as Bangla Desh and Sri Lanka.

however, is a result of the workshop

Tripurari Sharma is herself a

organised by the National School of

playwright and her plays, namely

Drama Repertory Company in collabo-

”Bahu” and ”Aks Pahe/i”, have been

ration with Alarippu and UNICEF.

