T H E P ROC ESS

This play has evolved through a process which involved:
1.

A brief study of the problem of
leprosy—done through booklets/
literature available on this subject
and audio-visual shows.

2.

A visit to Bethany, a few kilometers frorn Delhi—a rehabilitation
centre for leprosy patients.

3.

4.

Discussions on the disease/cure
and on the situations in Bethany
and other such habitation centres.
Improvisations done after this
exposure.

seemed to be to give information.
Situations were getting contrived and
the response limited. At that ti me, we
improvised on social stigrnas, viz. untouchability, and situations that border on 'impurities’, like a woman who
has had an abortion. Situational
clashes, power relations, like those at
tea shops, etc. were probed. Strains of
feelings like loneliness, feeling caged
and bound also formed a part of the
exercise. The purpose was to evoke
emotions and understand situations
parallel to those which a leprosy

patient could face.

’

In the discussions, the actors came
out with their opinions and reactions
before and after they had the exposure

One such bit was expressing an
emotion one has felt for somebody in
actual life, but never dared to express.

to the problem of leprosy, noting
thereby the subsequent changes in
their attitudes and reactions.

Given the solitude of a space and a
mute chair as a companion, it was a
simple exercise. What was amazing

Reading was done in three groups
on separate topics: medical, social and
cultural. Different approaches came

was the realisation that few of us
even dare to admit a range of emotion in our conscious selves and these

forth, viz. that of rejection; rehabilitation away from home; and assimilation within the family. The last

are often harboured with subdued
guilt. And those of us who could give
in to the experience were a bit shaken,

seemed to be the simplest and most
convincing approach, yet distant. This
complicity was an area worth exploring. Certain names and events men-

grappling with ourselves and the subject we were confronted with; a script
which demanded changes, work and

tioned aroused imagination and found
a way into improvisations. At a certain
stage it was felt that the improvisations
were getting stuck and the objective

attention. Whereas an actor usually
recreates a character, discovering the
sub-text; here the process was tracing
the character from observations, group
understanding and discussion.

