cussions was the question: What do
theatre artists have to do with an
issue like leprosy which falls largely

— Leprosy : social attitudes to it, the
patients’ attitude to it, their religious
beliefs, the patients’ predicament in
society, i .e. villages, at home and in

under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare—and as

the rehabilitation centres.
—— The problems of human relation-

An important feature in the dis-

far as the stigma attached to it, in the

ships.

jurisdiction of sociology. But it was
thought that theatre artists could relate themselves to the human aspect

Both these themes became articulate
in the script—particularly relationships
-—which come into being because of

of the problem. Being better placed
and as depictors of human emotions
and psychology, they could be in a

either necessity, social and economic
pressures, religious beliefs or a sad cornpromise and helpless acceptance of the

better position to relate to and confront the issue of leprosy, focussing

ways of the powerful. It was very i nter—
esting to see that pair formation
amongst leprosy patients takes place

more on the emotional and the psychological aspect and coupled with
their own commitment to the human
cause, could communicate to the
audience whatever would come out

without being supported or solemnized through religious marriage or
court of law.

through this process. This play is the

Our one day visit to Bethany consisted of mixing with the leprosy

ultimate result.

patients there, talking with them,

The improvisations had an under-

current of two themes:

seeing them at work, seeing their life
styles and drinking tea with them.

— Ki ran K u l ka r n i

E XT R ACTS F ROM DISCUSSIONS

STAGE ONE
Vyas

I wonder why the medical profession has a step-motherly
attitude to this disease. If this information is correct then why
this indifferent behaviour?

Shetty

There was a leprosy patient in a village near my home town.
And he lived outside the village and was treated as a Mahant and
therefore was respected and worshipped.

Ki ran

l n our town, leprosy patients went about in the streets begging.
And as children we would sing their songs and imitate them.

