UNICEF AND THE LEPROSY AWARENESS CAMPAIGN

UNICEF was created by the UN.

became actively involved in promoting

General Assembly in 1946, to meet

prevention and control of the disease

the emergency needs of children made

in 1982, when it organised the world

destitute by World War I I. Four years

premiere of the film "Gandhi” for the

later, the General Assembly changed

benefit objective of raising funds for

the main emphasis of UN ICEF ’5 work

controlling leprosy in India. The

towards greater involvement with long

national

range programmes to benefit those

Rs. 400,000; India’s response to the

countries where the ‘silent emergen-

UNICEF appeal yielded more than

cies of poverty and lack of basic ser-

double that sum.

vices and resources chronically im-

fund-raising target

was

_

In the wake of the premiere pub-

perilled the survival and healthy

licity, the question remained : what

development of children.

could be done to sustain public

Today, 38 years later, UNICEF

interest in leprosy control? In search

continues to work with national

of a durable answer, UNICEF laun-

governments in 112 countries to ful-

ched a national awareness campaign

fil the same basic mandate: to help

in early 1984. It has published adver-

nations ensure the survival and heal-

tisements in newspapers, provided

thy development of their children.

orientation to advertising agencies and

Its cooperation with the Government

business houses, promoted a film made

of India dates back to 1949, and now

by the Gandhi Memorial Leprosy

constitutes its largest single programme

Foundation, produced slide sets and

of cooperation with any country.

videos involving young professionals,

Over time, the nature of UN ICE F 's

organised a consultation of leprosy

partnership with child development

doctors, voluntary agencies,‘the media,

planners in India has evolved into what

and the performing arts to encourage

it is today : a flexible framework of
advocacy and action, geared to the

the development of a national network

variations of location and culture,
firmly based on community partici-

and initiated the exploratory theatre

pation, and reflected in a broad spectrum of area-specific initiatives in

National School of Drama, and its

which effective communication of
needed knowledge has come to play a

of concerned people and institutions—

project with ’Alarippu’ and the

Repertory Company.

As in all its promotional and moti-

pivotal role.

vational ventures, UN lCEF’s focus has

Associated with the more conventional aspects of leprosy control pro-

remained on the chi ld-in this case, a

grammes for several years, UNICEF

leprosy.

child living under the shadow of

