T H E R E P E R TO R Y COM PAN Y

The Repertory Company of the

scripts, the Company has also success-

National School of Drama is a perfor-

fully dramatised and produced a few

ming group of players and technicians

novels and short stories in Hindi, such

who have graduated from the School

as Teen Ekan t, Begum ka Takia, Mukh-

in the past years.

ya Mantri, Mahabhoj, and Kabhi na

Formed in 1964 with four actors,

Chhoden Khet. In the past years, its

the Company was started on an experi-

repertoire has also included foreign

mental basis by E. Alkazi, the Director

plays in translations and adaptations.

of the School till the late '705, and a

Some examples are Brecht's The Cau- ३

dynamic theatre personality who had a

casian Chalk Circle, The Three Penny

major hand in nurturing and expan-

Opera and Puntila and His Man Matti,

ding the Cbmpany over the years.

Shakespeare’s Othello and Macbeth,

Since the early '705, the Company
has produced a rich variety of plays,
both classical and contemporary, in
several Indian languages. Not tied to
any particular style of performance,
the Company has produced plays that
range from stylised musicals to real istic contemporary works. A few examples are : Tugh/aq, Andha Yug, Chhote
Saiyid Bade Saiyid, Panch van 8a var,
Rasgandharva, Surya ki Antim Kiran
Se Surya ki Peh/i Kiran Tak, Charpai,
Sainyan Bhaye Kotwal, Adhe A dhure,
Sandhya Chhaya, Mena Gury'ari, and

Moliere’s School for Wives, Osborne’s
Look Back in Anger, Bond ’5 The Fool,
Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya and The
Cherry Orchard, Pi ra nde | lo ’5 Six Characters in Search 0 fan Author, Orkeny’sl
Totek and R ostan d's Cyrano o’e Bergerac .
The Company is based in New
Delhi, where it gives regular performances. It has a small Studio Theatre
and an Open-air Theatre which are
regularly used for rehearsals and per-

formances during the theatre season. 1

Apart from playing in Delhi, the ३

Jasma Odan.

Company undertakes extensive tours ,

The Repertory has worked with a
variety of directOrs from India and ab-

to different parts of India each year.
It has also made a successful tour of

road. Besides using the best available

East Germany, Britain and Poland witl'
Jasma Odan and Tughlaq.

