LEPROSY CONTROL : GANDHl’S EXAMPLE OF SERVICE
Mahatma Gandhi overcame many
kinds of fear during his life time. In
doing so, he often challenged tradi-

disability that appears to set him
apart.
In the columns of the “Harijan”

unshakeable—and upset many of them.

and “Young India", and in his speeches
Gandhi-ii argued for a community-

For himself, he had only one yard-

based approach to the problem. In

stick: service to people in need.

1925 he wrote, ”The founding of leper

tions and prejudices that had seemed

asylurns is only one of the ways, and

One of his early acts of service
perhaps not the best . . . .”
was to take a beggar into his home in
Mahatma Gandhi’s constructive
Durban: 3 man suffering from leprosy.
programme did not include leprosy

He eventually sent this man to a hoswork until 1945 when he revised its
pital, but he never gave up his convicmandate. By this time, several protion that it was wrong to turn leprosy
grammes for the relief and rehabilivictims into social outcasts.
tation of leprosy patients were under
Gandhi-ji’s attitude to leprosy was
way in the country.
reflected in many other chapters of his
His own insight into the disease
life. When a leprosy victim in Pune got
knocked down by a crowd, Gandhi-j i

dispelled conventional prejudice and
fear of infection from his mind. But

helped the man up and escorted him
all the way to the hut where he lived.
He did the same with a man who
had been following his group from village to village in Champaran. The man
could not keep up with Gandh i-j i and
the rest, and was missing from‘ the
prayer meeting one evening. Gandhi-ji
picked up a lantern and set off through
the dark to find the man. He helped
him reach the village, and only then
did he begin the evening prayers.
These stories are not as well known
as Gandhi-ji’s association with his afflicted colleague Parchure Shastri. But
they show even more clearly that it
was his humanity, rather than the coin-

Gandhi-ji was well aware of the fear
and loathing that the sight of leprosy
evoked in most people. He never insisted that others should behave as he did.

He just quietly included the leprosy
victims among his chosen brothers
wherever he went, visiting leprosy hos-

pitals and 'leper asylums' all over the
country as he travelled from place to
place on his unending pilgrimage to
help people overcome the bondage
imposed by their own minds.
Of all the examples Mahatma
Gandhi set for those who sought to
follow him, this was perhaps one of
the hardest. Yet it continues to be one

cidence of personal friendship, that
moved him to include leprosy patients

of the most worthwhile. As Gandhi-j i
said in commending those who had devoted themselves to leprosy work: “All

among those he chose to serve. Humanity—and awareness that there is more

honour to them—but what of us?" The
question has to be answered with

to every person that the affliction or

deeds, not words.

