Lalit Singh Pokhariya
He is a graduate from BNA Lucknow with one year internship 1984-87. Worked with
SRC Repertory as an artist, as Programme coordinator (] 988-89) in BNA Repertory as
'A' grade artist, group incharge (] 989-94) and visiting faculty in BNA since 1996. He
has also taught in several thatre workshops organised by NSD New Delhi, Dept. of
Culture (U.P.)., NCZCC Allahabad, BNA Lucknow, UPSNA, SRS North lndia, Vigyan
Foundation and various theatre organizations, schools ,and colleges of U.P. &

Uttaran c h al .
He has directed over 70 plays and has acted in over 60 plays under the direction of
some eminent directors i.e. Raj Bisaria (Julius Ceasar), Fritz Bennewitz (Galileo),

Bhanu Bharti (Ashad Ka Ek Din), Waman Kendre (Cadhe 'Ki Barat), Tripurari Sharma
(Saza), B.M. shah (Kanjoos).

He has written 2 3 full length plays and 4 adaptations and 26 children's plays.

About the Director
Mushtaq Kak was born on Sept. ] ] , 1961 and brought up in
Jammu. He is an actor, director, designer, writer and painter. He

has designed and directed over 78 plays in different languages.
His plays have been staged both in Zonal and National Festivals.
Presently, Kak is the Artistic Director of Shri Ram Centre for

Performing Arts, New Delhi for the last seven years and has
directed over 24 plays with Repertory 8рео Acting Course students
of SRC. His plays Mahabrahman, Alladad, Kasturi Mrig & Mujhe

Arnrita Chahiye, Chekhove in my life have been selected as the
best of the year productions for Bhartendu Natya Utsav.

M u sic Director
RAJESH SINGH was born in the year 1979 in West Champaran- Bihar. Graduation &
training in vocal music from Candhrav Mahavidyalya, Delhi. Also trained in 'Acting &
Theatre' from Shri Ram Centre, New Delhi (1998-2000). He has done more than 35

productions with eminent directors. Worked with 'Sahitya Kala Parishad Repertory' &
'Shri Ram Centre Repertory' as an actor.

First Performance : December 2 I , 2006 at SRC

Playing Time : 2 hours without interval

