I\ a I f I 5 a l\ a I I I ~ I t: t:
Rangakarmee, which had its inception in January 1976, spearheads the Hindi Theatre in Kolkata today, with seventeen
, productions on its live repertoire. With Mahabhoj (1984), Lok-katha (1987), Holi (1989), Varna (1990), Court Martial (1991),
Rudali (1992), Khoj (1994), Beti Aayee (1996), Maiyyat (1997), H immat Mai (1998), Inspector Matadin Chand Par (1999), Mukti
(.999), Shobhayatra (2001 ), Antaryatra (2002), Kashinarna (2003), Badnaarn Manto (2004) and Sarhad Paar Manto (2005), it

has established itself as a politically committed theatre group, that delves into forms of exploitation and oppression, political,
economic, and social and sexual, unravelling the mechanisms at work, offering enlightenment at the end, and never simplifying
the issues into slogans or a facile solution.
I

r-

_

r ~……
. . ५५ …

rs.
.…५

५८ 1., . .1.

.८

The First decade( 1977 till 1986 ) primarily saw Rangakarmee reach out to directors who were in news in those early years,
like any other new and struggling group. It was more an arduous task for a newborn group with an alien language to find its
space in this heartland of rich Bengali culture. During this phase Rangakarmee started its journey with its first productions which
were three in—house one act plays Prastav (Dir— Usha Ganguli,1977), Bechara Bhagwan (Dir— Atmanand Singh,1977) and Andher
Nagri (Dir— Srikant Mandal,1977).
These followed soon with more ambitious projects for a just born group. This zeal to take on challenges has been a driving
spirit for Rangakarmee, all these years. In 1 978, Parichay was staged. This was an adaptation of Wesker’s Roots and was directed
at the able hands of Rudraprasad Sengupta. The very next year in 1979, Vijay Tendulkar’s play Jaat Hi Poochho Saadhu Ki was
directed by Sharad Seth for Rangakarmee. The response that Rangakarmee got in these early productions for plays in Hindi
from Bengali audiences, prompted Rangakarmee to venture into more challenging forays. Though there was a dwindling Hindi
speaking audience for these plays, the response of the Bengali speaking theatre goers acted as a catalyst for Rangakarmee. Came
Gudia Char in 1981, directed by one of the greatest names in Indian Theatre, Tripti Mitra. Though the play was already done
in Bengali by another great theatre group in Kolkata, at that time, still the temptation to do Ibsen’ A Doll’s House in Hindi was
irresistible. The lead actress Usha Ganguli recieved awards for her acting in this play as the protagonist, from Govt. of West
Bengal, Critics’ Circle of India and Kala Bharati. In 1983, another great name in Indian Theatre was approached to direct a play
for Rangakarmee. M. K. Raina came to Kolkata with-great enthusiasm to work with this new theatre group and the play that
was selected was Maa, an adapatation of Corky-Brecht’s Mother.
During this period, the person who was closely observng all these visiting directors, and assisting them in all the productions
was Usha Gangul i. The very next year, the group took a bold step to do a play directed by one among them only. It was a big
challenge and not many were keen to accept it. Finally, it was Usha Ganguli who took the responsibility and started work. The I
choice of play was the next issue. I n came the idea of Mahabhoj, written by Mannu Bhandari. It was a strong play, contemporary,

and reflecting the issues that our nation and society were facing at that point of time. The play was aWarded Best Production
of the year by Govt. of West Bengal and lead actor Rajaram Yagnik got awarded for Best Actor by Michel Madhusudan Academy. ,
This was 1984. Following Mahabhoj, in 1986 was staged Purush, directed by Krishna Kumar and Rangakarmee had the honour
of working with Manuel Lutgenhorst and Rustom Bharucha on an international project on women. Though it had only single
cast of Usha Ganguli ir‘. Reqeust Concert, it was indeed a big morale booster for a group just completing its first decade.

