T h e Second D e C ad e
The success of Mahabhoj, and the recognition that followed, added further challenges for Rangakarmee in its quest to do
something meaningful through its plays for the society. This decade (] 987 till I 996) saw Rangakarmee produce a series of
such plays almost every year. Beginning with Ratnakar Mattakari's Lok-katha in I 987, Safdar Hashmi’s Apharan Bhaichare
Ka in I 989, Mahesh Elkunchawar’s Holi in I989, Kashipur Ka Kashirarn written by Usha Canguli in I 991 , Swadesh Dipak’s
Court Martial in 1991, Rudal i dramatised by Usha Gangu l i from Mahasweta Devi’s story in I992, Khoj in 3994 written by
Usha Ganguli and Jyoti Mhapsekar’s Beti Aayee in I 996. All these plays were directed by Usha Canguli in this period. The
only guest director was Bibhas Chakraborty who directed a trilogy of plays written by Dario Fo-Franca Rame and Brecht. This
l
was \I’ama, acted solo by Usha Cangu l i in I 990.
The period saw Rangakarmee get more recognition, mostlyin the form of awards and a proportionate share of popularity for

its plays among its audience, not only in and around Kolkata, but to evendistant cities. During this period Rangakarmee
tIaxel led a lot to different cities with almost all its plays.
Lok- katha कूकू as awarded Best Production by Gmt. of West Bengal and Usha Cangu l i recieved the award for Best Director for
this play from Rittwik Ghatak Memorial Committee. Holi recieved the prestigious Shirornoni Puraskar from Asian Paints.

Court Martial got the Best Production and the Best Director award from Paschim Banga Natya Akademi. Rudali went on to
recieve the Best Production award from All India Critics’ Association and the Best Director award from Paschim Banga Natya
,Akademi. The decade ended with Beti Aayee, an all woman cast play based on women’s issues getting the Lions Kalakar
Award for Best Production and awarded by Paschim Banga Natya Akaderni for Best Music for the year.

The Th i rd Decade
Into its third decade (I 997 till 2006), Rangakarmee started its educational wing, the Study Group within itself. This wing was
assigned with documentation of information on the group itself and theatre as a whole around the globe. Rangakarmee activists
would कू isit sites, interview audiences, create their own plays, attend workshops conducted by ernine t theatre persons on
body, sound, rhythm, lights, sets and vaI lOUS other aspects of theatre. As a result, Rangakarmee took a deto from its proscenium
' plays for a while, and jumped i nto the foray of street theatre. In I997 Maiyyat was developed througr; me such workshop.
WI itten by Vi 'ay Dalvi and fuItheI developed and directed by Usha Gangui herself, this is a 40 minutes asterpiece that has
been peI101 med at various schools, colleges, social organisations and डाईन corporate offices ov the years. The next year
I 998 कूकू as the biIth centenelrjy yeaI of Bertolt Brecht. As a tribute to the master, Rangakarmee sta d Himmat Mai. Based on
BIecht5 Mother COLIIage and He Children, this play,was adapted In Hindi by Neelabh and directed by Usha Ganguli. In
I e o gztoday5 system was produced. Basqtl on the story by Harishankar Parlsai, Inspector Matadin
I 999 aIIotlIeI stIeet play,a
‘W’ Rangakarmee pr duced its first playIn Bengali, Mukti. Based on a
ClIaIId PaI was diIected bib-hag} anguli
part of this play was
nguli. The most rnernora
story by Mahasweta Devi t e play‘was dIaI‘:9 n directed by Usha
e se& consecutive
the return of veteIan actIess Ketaki Itta to theatre after long years of hiber’n tion. The-following years

i

१

presentations ' ३ plays of varied at r
journey n ’ -‘tress, a solo writ 'an
stories I Dr.
the ba ks of
Since 2 4

._ ,

karmee has taken up a project to dramatise wor३'by the wrongly re

, India, Saadaﬂén Manto who was born an Indian but died a PakI’s‘tani. In this serie

ed Urdu writer of '
~८

three works, two ha

staged

WV

ow

already. In 2004 Badnam Manto came into being, portraying the worne 4I.

,e about. In 2005 Sarha

aar Manto

("if the plays in this decade were directed by
was produced, depicting events from his much talked about Partition st कुंदों

Usha Ganguli for ।२१1प1५सागा०शा,

f

This decade also saw some prgSﬁgious awards come its way. Among them affanguli recieved in 1998 the Sangeet Natak
Akademi Award for her contribution to Theatre as a Director. In I 999 sh- rec ved the Safdar Hashmi Puraskar from Uttar
Pradesh Sangeet‘Natak Akade’rfﬂ’f In 2009 she recieved the Dayavati Modi Stree Shakti Samman and thefRIabha Khaitan

, Award in 2003. Of the plays, Kashinagna Iteeieved the Best Production award from Paschim Banga Natya Academy and the
Tripti Mitra Puraskar. In Ianuary 2006, when Rangakarmee completes its three decades, the third production on Manto will
be opened.

