_ R e ac h i n g Out —

'

Voice for Society
During these three decades of endless experimentation and tireless creation of socially meaningful and thought provok
ing plays, one thing
that Rangakarmee constantly kept in mind was that, to create an awareness among the people through its plays, it
has to reach out to them,
instead of waiting in the confines of its auditoriums for the audience to come and see its plays. This effort to reach
out to the audience, has
taken Rangakarmee far and wide. lnspite of being a metro based theatre group, Rangakarmee has never hesitated
in venturing out, whether
its Parichay for the mine workers in Kirindul, Bacheli, Nandini and Rajhara in Madhya Pradesh in 1980 or
Mahabhoj for Bihar collieries
Workers’ Union at Nirsa in 1985. Rangakarmee’s plays have been a regular feature at conferences of progressi
ve political parties and students’
unions. Gorky-Brecht’s Maa was performed at several gatherings commemorating the death centenary of Kar
l Marx in at Calcutta Maidan
and suburban Kankinara among others. In 1985 Mahabhoj was performed at the Burdwan District Youth Festiv
al and the West Bengal Youth
Festival at Ranji Stadium, Calcutta. The play Lok-katha was performed at the CPI workers rally at Calcutta’s
Brigade Parade Ground in front
of a gathering of over a lakh workers. In 1989 only Rangakarmee plays were performed at the Panchayat Rajya
Sarnrnelan, CITU Conference
at Farakka and the All India Youth Conference.
Voice for Voice/ess

This is one area where Rangakarmee has never compromised. Performances of Rangakarmee for a cause are
endless. These shows are not
being performed for charity, but rather as a social responsibility towards people in distress. If a little effort of
some can go a long way in
making lives of some, slightly better, there is no deed better than that. In 1982 in Patna, Rangakarmee perf
ormed Parichay, Maa and Iaat hi
Poochho Sadhu ki in aid of a polyclinic. The same year Guria Ghar was performed for the State Chief Min
ister’s Drought Relief Fund. In
1986 Mahabhoj was performed to raise funds for support to the family of Late Professor Wahid ul Haq;
in 1988 Lok—katha to raise funds
for schools in distress including the Urdu Literary Society. The play Court Martial was performed to raise fun
ds for people affected by floods
in Bangladesh in 1991; Group Theatre Welfare Fund in 1992; and in support of University Women’s
Association of Calcutta in 1993. In
1994, the much acclaimed play Rudal i was performed to raise funds for the Spastics Society; Funds for
a mentally challenged CESC employee;
for students of Ramakrishna Mission School in Narendrapur; and for the All
India Women’s Organisation.
Voice for wOmen and children

Over the years, Rangakarmee, besides doing performances of its plays all around, has
in our society and raising its concerns for the well being of children as a whole. With
annual events from 2000. Samanvay was formed as a platform for women, to gather,
playground to nurture talent in kids, especially those kids, who are deprived of a better

been quite keen in breaking gender bias prevailing
such noble intentions, Rangakarmee launched few
share and express. And Sambhavna was born as a
childhood.

During the last four Sarnanvays, which has seen participation from Sangeet Natak Akademi, Ministry of
Culture( Govt. of India ) and Central
Social Welfare Board Rangakarmee has been able to mobilise tremendous support for the common caus
e from women of all fields and all
corners of the country.

Within Sambhavna, Rangakarmee has tried to explore the feelings of children growing up in or
phanages, children with an uncertain future
belonging to families of closed factories, children belonging to communities that are looked down upon
. And children are children. The
results of all these ventures have been overwhelming.

Voice, beyond borders दु
Over the years, Rangakarmee has not only emerged as a group producing successful plays, but also
as a group that has travelled far and
wide carrying its Hindi plays to far off Trichur in Kerala; to Agartala in the North—East and beyond the
bOunderies to Dhaka " in Bangladesh,
more than once. Rangakarmee's plays have proved thattheatre has its own language, which does not
depend on dialectics,’ region, nation
or city. The language of theatre is uniVersa‘l. Besides Bangladesh, Rangakarmee has visited Lahore in
Pakistan; Los‘rAngeles in the US; and '
Stuttgart in Germany. Though language of the Words have never. been a barrier for Rangakarme
e, yet, it has tried in its ow: ay to break

all barriers that might be. _ 7

’३ 7

. 7

’

_ _

'

>7 _

८ ३

’

