tating and as if divining my thought

Weeks rolled,“ on. Sujit was there
looking on at the proceedings whenever there was some rhythmic rnusrc

the old lady said: "I do not expect my

but the moment someone noticed him,

grandson to be a star in the group but
maybe, the cheerful environment would

he went back to the fold of sarec’.
One thing was noticeable. (lone was

make him happier—~he loves music. ' ’
‘ ‘Is he good at books ?” I enquired.

his vacant look. There was a perceptible variety of emotions and one
of these was that whenever he took

acceptance of this sorry specimen as
a trainee in our Centre. I was hesi-

She shook her head, “No. He eats
books and we can’t buy them every
alternate hour”.
Well——here was a new challenge.

There was one good point in favour of
the kid and that was his love for music.
Can we make that our capital for his
beneﬁt ? The experiments of the CLT
should not be conﬁned to talented
and average children,—I mused,—— we

must have our experiments extended

to dull, backward and under-privileged children. Why not this poor
creature ? Maybe, we will learn some-

thing more

about this kind.

I de-

cided on taking the boy, in spite of the
sad look of the T. C. Director.
So came Sujit to the centre where
we had forty more robust and boisterous children practising steps, learning rhymes and songs and making hell

of

a noise in company with their

equally boisterous instructors.

Sujit came with his granny at the
stroke of time and sat quietly at the
little bench just like a frightened bird.
The boy

would not be coaxed, to

joining the practising group of his
age and his grandmother was ex—
pressly requested not to hurry him,
nor to notice him during the training
period. In spite of that granny would
often tell him, ‘ ‘Come Sujit—~play and
dance with them”; and immediately

he would go back to his shell of shy—
ness and sink his tousled head in her
lap. I had to be ﬁrm and tell her once
more not to hurry the boy.

She sat

glum but submitted.
20

cover, he ensured that he could see

the children dancing and singing . This
was good sign and I resolved to cash
on it.

A couple of months later Sujit’s
grandmother came and saw me at the

centre. “You know Suj it has changed”,
she said. “He takes good care to see
that I do not forget the training
centre days. Once I proposed not
coming to the Centre as I had to fulﬁl

another social call and he raised a
terriﬁc storm:——besides—-” she stopped.
‘ ‘Yes’ ’ , I enquired.

“He is practising some of those
steps at home—and he sings!” This
was indeed news and I decided to
investigate further. Calling one of
my esteemed colleagues, an instructor,

I advised him to prepare a particular
rhyme which had a good emphasis
on rhythm and to practise the same for
six consecutive days. He complied
and on the seventh day we stepped
into the music room. Sujit was there
——not the old Sujit —— he had already

put on a new look. He was not mun—
ching his shirt any more and there was
not much of saliva to soil his clothes.
Wonder of wonders—~he was not with
his granny; he had selected a good
vantage point so that he could have a
ring side view of other children performing.
As previously arranged the pianist
banged the music of the “Bird’s
Orchestra” and the group of children
swarmed into the ballet box stepping

