there is in the environment. In the
beginning he sees things and hears
sounds as ‘one whole’. Later he distinguishes object from object, sound
from noise etc. It is a well-known

fact that even a child of few , months
will recognise its mother from a group
of several women. What enables him
to do so?

The inborn capacity के to

speak ﬂuently.

In an environment

that is rich from language pomt of
View, it is noted, that the vocabu-

lary of a child of 2हुँ- years conSISts of
about 200 or even more words. The

period from 2हुँ to 5 years of a chlld’s
life is a period of quick absorptlon
of new words and of expression. At
the age of 5 years, the child has a

observe and absorb the items, ”animate

rich treasure of

or inanimate, of his environment.
Let us now consider the achieve-

words.

ments of a child of three years of age.

He 'can eat, walk and talk.

Is‘:’nt

thatmarvellous तो How does he make

these conquests ? The answer is quite
simple:——
“The child observes his surroundings and takes in everything and
these impressions become an integral part of his mental and
physical life. ’ ’

The problem of education becomes
very simple no sooner this great hidden
power of observation and absorption
is understood by the adult.

several thousand

If during these periods in the life
of the child, he is not given an opportunity to listen to the music of lullabys, songs, stories, new words, easy

or difﬁcult, his language will remain
poor. "he inner urge, the irresistlble
hunger for language, the 1nst1nct1ve
capacity to devour language Without
effort or strain will have passed With
his ﬁfth year.
Parents can help their children in
acquiring a rich vocabulary and a
good speech habit through lullabys,
songs, stories (as referred above also);

by telling them new words with the
help of objects or pictures, taking them
to shopping centres whereby the
children will get an opportunity of
listening to different people, seeing
objects of daily use. The parents can
take their children with them to river—

(6) ’ ‘he normal child has an inner

urge TO TALK & LISTEN. "his
urge enables him to go out of hirn—
self into the lives of other persons
and " other living things . His sensitiveness to human word (Language)

side, the sea-shore, the garden, the
railway station etc., etc., where the

from his birth onwards upto the age
of two and a half years, is in . its
essence for intercourse, for communion
for the interchange of thoughts , of
feelings, of experiences. During this
period a child is a rapt listener. During

child will ask names (new words) of
so many things he ,.has not seen before.
Birth to ﬁve years is an age of
absorption, ﬁxation, developing and
expression in a natural and myste-

the “next period i.e. two and a half
to ﬁve years he becomes an inveterate
chatter—box.

rious way,

with relation to human

word known as language. To talk
and listen is his passion, and it is
the duty of the parent and teacher
to satisfy this passion and the inner
urge during this period when it is
most sensitive.

The child passes through various
stages of strainless and natural effort
which he makes to listen and talk
till he is two and a half years old,

and arrives at a stage when he can
28

