Balkan-ji-ch'

CHILDREN’S GARDEN OF LOVE
By Madam Thapa
ft. Asst. Secretary Children's Little Theatre, Delhi

BALKAN-JI-BARI, the pioneer child

a Pen-Friend’s League through which
children increased their contacts with
children of other countries. Gift par-

welfare organisation was founded — 30

years ago with a view to bring together
children of all classes and creeds for
the creative use of leisure. It is
based on the belief that the recrea—

cels of books, dolls and other interest—
ing articles have been exchanged bet—

tion is a medium of education in the

Representatives of children’s organi-

most liberal sense and aims to make
children as happy as possible by letting
them develop by themselves.
i_
The organisation had difﬁculties
and setbacks in the beginning when
even speaking of the child was: a
matter of ridicule. It has at present

sations from abroad visited our cOun-

ween Indian and foreign children.

try and studied the activities of the
Balkan-ji-Bari.

Children’s Little Theatre is proud
to be associated with this noble organisation in Delhi since 1954. We are
glad to give here a brief review of the
varied activities of the Delhi State

nearly 600 Units all over India with
primary members numbering over

Balkan—ji-Bari, one of our member—

70,000. 100 Units are working in
villages and small towns and another
50 in slums, poor colonies and labour
areas. -‘ With the growing popularity

institutions.

40 Units in various localities of Dehil
and New Delhi, where the elderly
workers endeavour to supplement the

of Balkan-ji-Bari, it is a joy to see
that the idea of focussing on the child

home and school activities of the
children with a view to directing their
emotions into creative and positive
channels. The State Bari has its own
centrally located headquarters which

has caught the imagination of public
bodies :and Government authorities.

Prime Minister Nehru while greeting
‘ Balkan-jiiBari said “I have always
been attracted by children. But apart
from this, I have begun

The Delhi Bari has about

houses a Children’s Library and Ofﬁce
and also acts as an Information Centre.

to think

ﬁrst place to children in our plans

The Library loans out books to its
member Units. A monthly journal
‘Bal Mitra’ is published. There is

and schemes.

also a Film Section which gives re-

more and more that we must give
To me, they are the

India of tomorrow and we work for ' gular Film Shows of Children’s intethat tomorrow.”
rest to the Units and in the localities
Balkan-ji-Bari is associated with where there is no Unit. "he member
other child welfare organisations in the

Units

country and abroad and has connections with International Child Welfare
Agencies. The Charter of the Indian
Children’s Rights prepared by the

organise their regular activities where

run

their

own

libraries

and

children gather to sing, dance, act and

play together. On State basis Balkanji-Bari organises Bal Melas, Variety

Balkan-ji-Bari was accepted by the

Shows, Dramas, Excursions, Educa~
tional Tours, Exhibitions and such

UNESCO as the basis of the Interna—

tional Children’s Charter.
Balkan-ji-Bari has also organised

other activities which fall within its

scope.

3’7

