and Slmple “Narration,” telling the
story to be embodied in each dance»

the. blghly dramatic story of “Cop—
pella.

w1th all the excitement of a

their performances are very much
quicker and responsive as an audience
than those to whom it is new. Those
who have been “theatre trained and
conditioned” are quick to pick up

life—sue doll that becomes mischievous;
the fun and romance of “Cinderella”
already familiar to all fairy—tale read—

imagination is ﬁred and they become

ing .children or the comedy of the

part of the show.

comic dance of old japan “0 Men
Futatsu”—Other ballets included in
the repertoire of this ﬁne trio are:———

the “Grand Pas de Leuz” from Swan
Lake, excerpts from “Les Sylphides”;
from “Don Quixote”, from the “Nutcracker” and the “Sleeping Princess.”
All are presented simply and without
scenery or sets but when introduced

by the graphic word picture of the
narration, the simple back drapes of
black and grey take on, with the aid
of the children’s imagination, all the
fairy-tale glamour of the story of the
dance.
Because the work of the ACT.

is recognised as being of great cultural
value to children, the Educational De—
partments in Victoria, New South
Wales and Tasmania have now given
permission for children to attend these

programmes during school hours. The
theatre does not now have to seek
business in country towns—-teachers

in country schools write asking when
they can come and pay them a Vislt.
Last year the ACT. had to send out

over 80 letters of regret to towns that
could not be ﬁtted in on their tour.
They have made many ﬁrm friends
amongr members of the Mothers’ Clubs,
teachers and members of amateur
theatrical groups and are often over-

whelmed by requests to give addresses
and ‘ ‘pep talks” to local theatre groups
and cultural bodies. They ﬁnd that
children who have once seen one of

the story given by the narrator, their

Children in wayback country towns
particularly love the folk tales dra—
matised by the Rayner sisters. They

pick up the simple tunes and sing them
and want old favourites repeated.
Many new Australians met lately
have recognised some of the folk
tales of their own countries and are

very responsive to the simple fun
and comic
characters.

masks of some of the

And so, the A.C.T. is ﬁrmly established in the hearts and minds of

many young Australians,

and the

dream of its founders to ‘ ‘give to chil—
dren wholesome and instructive entertainment and relaxation without over
excitement” has now been amazingly
realised.

