Situations are suggested by children or
the mstructors to be played in dumbshow, .which can be considered as a
prelimlnary exercise before going
011 to acting.
Since 1950 a children’s theatre has
been provided for older children of
I3 to 16 years of age, and a drama
reading circle has been formed on the

९११… g \
३ ३.… _. . ,

e—ﬁ: ,- A J"

lines of the library groups which disformances in schools in Stockholm and

cuss literature and the classics. Drama,
both classical and modern, is read so

in the provinces.

In the provinces

certain local authorities have become
interested as a result of this and have
started children’s theatres of their

that the chlldren get an understanding
of the history of the theatre. After
that a play is chosen for study, one

which provides an opportunity for the
use of costumes and settings such as
Egyptian history or the Arabian Nights
etc. A whole term is given over to the

0WI1 .

study of the artistic and historical side

young people in their twenties. St.
Goran’s Youth Club has its own stage
on which it gives regular performances.

Certain youth clubs in Stockholm

have groups interested in drama at—
tended both by school—children and by

of the work, with visits to the appro—
priate museum, examination of illus—
trations, and finally the decor competi—

In recent years those interested in
the theatre have been associated with
attempts to get drama as a subject
incorporated into the school syllabus
and certain school authorities are
working with this purpose in mind.

tion, which is looked upon to provide
good ideas for costumes and scenery.

The prize—winning ideas are taken
up and the children divided into
groups for sewing and for set decora—
tion. Rehearsals of the play take
place under experienced direction but
the general work is carried out by

For example, the principal of Soﬁa
Girls School in Stockholm takes an

interest in the theatre and has pro-

the group’s own efforts. The group
has two leaders, one of whom is an

vided a course in children’s theatre
for the teaching staff partly at the

artist and makes the ﬁnal decision
as to the set.
Twice a week performances lasting
three—quarters of an hour or an hour

are given.

school and partly at the Chlldren’s
Theatre, where teachers of history,

geography and Swedish are taught
to use the drama in the instruction of

Tickets for the go free

their respective subjects. The course
is given by the director of Stockholrns

children’s seats at each performance
are given out a few days in advance

Stads Barnteater.

in the Children’s Department of the
All this activity will of course be

Public Library at Medborgarhuset.
It is from the children who attend
these performances that many offers
of help come. During its twelve years
activity Stockholrns Stads Barnteater
has given over 125 invitation per—

of great benefit to the amateur dramatic movement. Wisely the leaders do
not encourage the children to dream
of anything greater than the amateur
movement, as the professional stage
53

