demands more than talent alone _ on
account of the mental and phys1cal
strain involved.
However for children with real
talent and for their parents it can be

instructive to see clever children work—
ing together. Also important for the
Children’s Theatre are languages, v0—
cabulary, correct pronunciation and
ability to differentiate between former

and modern spoken languages.
To play at theatre helps to rid
children of complexes and make them
uninhibited. For abnormal children
theatre can be an effective means to

recovery. The importance of this has
been realised in the U.S.A. where
activity of this kind is as a matter of
course applied in institutions for abnor-

mal children. ‘ ‘Psychological complexes
from the performers, have gained quite
a reputation. Thus in many ways
theatre for children is of considerable
importance.

Another drama organisation for
children in Stockholm is Skolbarns—
teatern. (The School-Children’s Theatre) in which professional actors give

two different performances a term for
the different age-groups. They act in
various schools throughout the City
after school-work is over. This Child—
ren’s theatre was founded in Stockholm in the spring of 1947 under
the auspices of the educational autho—
rities of the Stockholm City Council.
Every year 35,000 Swedish kronor
(£2,500) are set aside by the munici—
pality for this purpose.
This society
is an entirely idealistic one and has

no other purpose than to give per—
formances in the various

Stockholm.

schools in

"he leading personalities

in the society are Mrs. Ingrid Luter—
kort and Mr. John Zacharias.

Every production is given in all
the municipal schools of Stockholm

and every year four different plays
are produced, two for the younger
children (9 to II years of age) and two
for the older children (12 to I5 and 10

years of age). Each play is given between 25 and 30 times the performances
take place in the afternoon between
2.30 and 4.30. The actors are all
professionals from the various theatres
in Stockholm.

About 10,000 children

see the plays in each of Stockholm’s
35 school-districts. The plays already
given have included: A dvokatens tofflor
(The Lawyer’s Slippers) by August
Strindberg, Dmmngen by Selma Lagerlof, A‘vem‘yr pa Arngamyr (Adventure
on Angantyr) by Susan Bergstrom,
The Farce of P676 Pat/zelz'n, The Soup—
}eezfzfle by Yeats, Fantasiladan (The
Fantasy Box) by Else Fischer and the
Under—box based on the story by
Hans Anderson.
The Royal Dramatic Theatre in

Stockholm also has a special school
or youth theatre as a special branch of
its activities.

This school theatre very

often performs in the regular afternoon programmes of the Royal Dramatic Theatre and also in special
localities. They play to audiences of

children in the various kinds of schools,
primary, secondary and high schools

and in the vocational schools.

Audien—

ces are of two kinds, those between

II and I4 years of age and those
between I5 and 2I years of age.
Evening performances are sometimes

given for the latter group and some—
times there are special programmes
for the younger ones.

Among the plays from the ordinary
repertorre given by this school thetre
should be mentioned fepgbe pa berget
by Holberg, Lycko-Pers resa (Lucky
Peter’s Travels) by August Strind—
berg, A ntzgone by Sophocles and Casu
con dos yb'z/Ierz’as by Calderon.
54

