to things that hold the child’s interests,
is a well-nigh insurmountable handicap.
It is only a veteran well-versed in the

ways of the child, or one who can be
a child With the children, who should

be entrusted with the teaching of Art
to children.

One of the main difﬁculties is
the psychological change which overtakes the child with the onset of adole—
scence. At thisjstage the child makes
a conscious and deliberate effort to
discard child-like ways and ape the
ways of the adult. He no longer sees
things with the child’s eye of wonder,
he begins to analyse and exercise his
power of observation. He emerges
from his world of impressions into the
world of realities. He now wishes to
acquire the skill to copy the objects
of his observation. When this adult
viewpoint gains ground, teaching of
painting or any other creative Art
offers new problems. Adolescence is
a critical age for all children—even
for those brought up under more
favourable conditions. Some show a
tendency towards a total extinction of
their creative talents, if they are not
carefully handled.

In their ardour for training the
child to master the technique of
realistic drawing, most teachers cram

the child with the grammer of Art, so
much so that in the process the child
gradually loses his real interest in Art.
What will the capable teacher do at
this stage ?

He should certainly im-

part some technical knowledge to the
child. But not at the cost of his
innate creative impulse. Such know—
ledge should be given in a planned
manner with an eye to the needs and

aptitude of individual students.
This brings us to the important
question as to whether the child
should be encouraged to copy. He

may be allowed to do so, as a matter

of fact, copying will go to increase
and develop his manipulative skill
after he has begun to use his power
of observation. In earlier stages he
may be given some objects or models
to copy, but it will not do to insist
upon a close likeness. In choosing
things for copying the teacher should
do well to remember that the child
is more attracted by colour and move-

ment than by details of expression and
static objects.

Finally, we have to

recognise that although it may be
necessary or desirable to guide the
child towards acquiring technical perfection, our attempt in this direction
must not be so pronounced as to
destroy his
expression.

natural

desire for self—

The physical growth of the child
brings about certain external changes
which are apparent to the naked eye.

But not so with mental development
which shows itself in certain psychological symptoms. In the sphere of
Art teaching, the revealing symptom
of this development is the child’s
growing dissatisfaction with his own
handiwork. ' He begins to ﬁnd many
defects in his work which he brings
before his elders for correction. The
spirit of questioning and ,criticism
gains upperhand and he becomes impatient faithfully to copy the objeCt
or model before him. This fretting
for faultless perfection is a sure sign
that the mind of the child has deﬁnitely left the impressionable stage
behind.
As already explained, the teaching
of Art to children should not aim
at specialisation. It should, on the
contrary, be co-ordinated with the
central purpose of education by help—
ing to develop the aesthetic sense of
the child.
60

