MN

K A M K A T HIf . ख्वा M K A .' l A N I
RAMKATHA/RAMKAHANI is a drop in the ocean. The
production was undertaken to give some of the eternal
values propagated in a treatise as ancient as the
Ramayana a new, pragmatic vision, to spread the

message of hope even in the darkest hours. And to
rediscover our values that have spread the glory of India
all over the globe. We hope that the audience will find a
chord that touches their heart — be it in the sheer
poetry of the epic or the solace and comfort it provides
to the parched soul.

folk artists and acrobats are woven into the multi-layered
fabric to give RAMKATHA a diversity. Music composed
primarily by Debasish Sarkar and Anand Gupta also
contains inputs from many other sources ancient &
modern, and also Western and Indian. Besides classical
ragas, various other forms like Folk, Western, Kajri,

Thumri, Ghazal, Kawali and Rap have been imaginatively
u se d .

Some Highlights
RAMKATHA/ RAMKAHANI presents the story in the

The Background
Kathakar sensibilities of classical Kathak, where the

Padatik began work on RAMKATHA/RAMKAHANI with
its Kathak troupe but in the last two years it grew into a
multi-dimensional production, with inputs from
researchers and scholars and with an ever-expanding
team that now embraces 45 members.

It opens in Calcutta this November 1995 with a
multifarious cast of dancers, actors, singers, musicians,

acrobats, mime artists and professional backstage staff.
Production

The production, under the general direction of
Shyamanand Jalan, has been mounted primarily by
Chetna Jalan. She has made a thorough study of the
story-telling traditions, not only of Kathak and other
performance-forms, but also of religious men like Murari
Bapu and Ram Sukh Das Maharaj. Chetna has interacted
with singers like Sharma Bandhu of Ram Darbar and
travelled all over to see the Ram Leela traditionsThe
script, by the eminent Hindi poet Nawal, has evolved as
work has progressed and now it incorporates Tulsidas'»
Ramcharitmanas, Ramayana by Valmiki and Pt.
Radheshyam, poems of Bharatendu Harish Chandra and
many others. It has been designed for appealing to both
the young and the old and to convey not only the
message of the story but to regenerate love and faith in
Rama and make the production acceptable to the
modern youth.

Choreography
The choreography by Chetna has made many
innovations in the classical Kathak form and used the

Kathak rhythmic phrases in a novel manner to
communicate the moods and the. narrative. Mime and

narrator takes the centre stage and talks, sings and
dances the emotions and the central message. A few
dancers and musicians accompany the narrator. Padatik‘s
effort has researched the various ways in which the story
has been presented by saints, poets and artists through
their “pravachans” and art forms. The purpose is to find
the best way of interpreting the message of Ramayan
and holding audience interest.
The team under the leadership of Shyamanand and
Chetna has been working since November 1992. Her
team has studied religious discourses and analysed them
for audiences. They have also collected various forms of
Kirtans and Bhajans. A troupe of about 50 dancers,
actors and muscians have been participating in
workshops to find the ideal form and language for
better communication.

ं"है रु

