स्था … …

._ d E

T

H

A

When I started looking for the material for RAMKATHA/
RAMKAHANI I was ushered into a whole world of
various forms of the performing arts in which the epic
Ramayana is being staged as a living tradition. Being a
Kathak dancer and also a student of Hindi literature, I
had read with avid interest Tulsidas' Shri
Rarnacharitarnanas and some of the chaupais I had
known by heart.Attempting to translate them into dance
language of Kathak, I once again enjoyed the poetic
beauty of Tulsidas' work.
It launched me on a search for the form by studying the
existing traditions of Rarnkatha presentations in literature,
performing arts and also story—telling traditions by
singers, dancers and saints.
I was singularly fortunate to receive the guidance from
Shri Bhanu Shankar Mehta of Benaras during my several
visits there. He is an acknowledged authority on the
Ramayana. Innurnerable references were offered to me. I
heard Naradavani and compiled dohas from
Ramacharitmanas as well as the chaupais, necessary for
the dance and progression of the story.
Besides Benaras, its most famous Rarnalilas and the

exquisite ambience, I travelled to various other parts of
North India and also Madhya Pradesh. Dr. Kapil Tiwari
of Madhya Pradesh Adivasi Kala Parishad made it
possible for me to attend the Ramayana Mela at Indore.
He also put at my disposal video copies of Madhuban

Rama Sita Vivaha, Orissa's Das Palla Grams Lanka
Dahan. I feasted my eyes on all these material and my
feet were itching to put some sequences in my version

of Kathak. The visits to Ayodhya, Vrindaban, Almora,
Bundelkhand, the tradition of Pandavani, seeing video
recording Birju Maharaj's uncle Om Prakash Maharaj and
others helped me to have glimpses of the vast treasure
trove of the Ramayana tradition. Keshav Prasad
Mahendra of Benaras introduced me to the various
Jhankis, where the idols of the Gods are seen in various
sequences. Sarau Kuan ki Jhanki impressed me the most
and I have dovetailed Ksheerasagarashayan, the Lord
reclining on serpent couch on the milky ocean in the
choreography as well as introduced the Jhanki in the
background. There is a tradition of presenting the entire
Ramayana with Jhankis. I also noticed the difference of
the Rarnalilas of Vrindaban and those of Benaras. In
Vrindaban Lord Rama appears like Krishna, as all the
Krishna devotees see in Rama Lord Krishna.
It indeed was a rnindboggling experience. The props of the
Rarnalila shown to me by Sanskritayan-ji, of DCM Ramalila
of Delhi Hanurnana flying, the moving chariots and the
magic tricks were fascinating. From the rich archive of the
Central Sangeet Natak Akademi, I saw artists like
Venugopal and Urna Maheswari in Harikatha, Ritu Verma,
the young Pandavani exponent, the Manipuri traditions, the

singers Ranjana Devi and Thombino Devi, their singing r‘
Padavali kirtan. and several artists and forms,

ﬂew/a

