However, one had to make a choice and select

judiciously what was necessary for our production The
material gathered was unwieldy and offering several
temptations. But when we started, we had no idea how
things would workout. It gave me an impetus to
internalise the essence and produce something without
implanting things for its own sake. You see
metamorphosis in an amazing way. I had some
framework in mind. The aratis with their haunting tunes
were inviting features. Vishnuvandana one was taught in

Kathak. Whether one would perform in a sitting position
or move into space had to be resolved. I wanted
simplicity of Kathak to be highlighted, without sacrificing
its complexities. So I took recourse to various aspects.

The Kavits with their chhanda I recited to Shri Navalji,
who with his innumerable sessions and patient hearing
absorbed the chhandas and wrote the script, in which
various chhandas were used looking like Kavits in its
modern avatara. The contemporary issues were woven in
with this device. If Baba Sehgal uses the same
monotonous beat, I did not have to, as Kathak offered

variations. The Rap and the recitations had many features
in common. So outward look gave an impression of Rap
and recitation, but the variations enriched the
presentation.

Cbemajalan — Work in Progress, Rani/eatba Ram/eabam‘

The musical mode fascinating as they were struck
familiar notes and touched one‘s heart, When Rama’s
birth is celebrated artists sing with jhanih and maniira,
the big and small cymbals. My childhood memories came
very handy. I had in [JP seen during the weddings and
birthday celebrations acrobatics and pageantry. King

Dasharath I have shown mounting a human elephant,
the sakhis, the flower girl, Gajarewali, men

impersonating women in Ramalila and other images have
been freely drawn upon front these memories.
“Thumka chalat Ramachandra" evoked images of group
dancing. All the queens watch Rama wobbling,
attempting balance, running, the queens holding his
hand, some impersonating Rama, others showing
reactions to Rama's walk and so on. There was enough
scope to show Rama's walk in the tihais, simple ones:
'I'igdadigdig theis theis theis. The endings of the scenes
were resolved with the Jhankis. In this case with
Kaushalya and Rama’s jhanki.

Of the various talas, Ek Tal has been used with typical
Kathak layakari. It is the purana tal. In a sequence of
training in archery, the relevance of the guru, the

maturity of the student etc. were touched upon, which
worked as a take off point to juxtapose and show what

