is the present attitude . The background refrain of Gurur
Brahma is on, which is quite ironic. The fashion shows,
the television with children’s favourite WWF scenes in
Star TV, the mockfight, outrageous costumes, a child
gives commentary, hardly communicative and so on. The

device once again is that of a Kathakar who gives
commentary and questions the forsaking of the
traditional style of education.

match Kathak's richness. Whether in tatkar or in body
rhythm, various patterns have been employed. Speaking
in English mixing Bengali dialogues, the child asking
mother not to go for the cocktails and saying “Maiya
Maiya O" and so on is reminiscent of Omkarnath
Thakur’s “Maiya mori mai nahi rnakhan khayo”. I have
attempted juxtapositions to highlight the irony.

I can go on and on. But would end with an episode of
Ahalya. Valmiki emphasises that Ahalya knew that Indra
was in disguise and she lets herself go. It is a modern

The impact of the Parsi Theatre helped us in bringing
out the pathos when Vishwarnitra takes young Rama and '
him
before
keeps
who
s,
Tulsida
from
differnt
nt
to
treatme
ble
una
is
a
ath
har
Das
.
ons
dem
the
kill
to
ana
Lakshm
the social milieu for which he wrote. When Ahalya says
bear the separation. Sutradhara depicts Dasharatha
breaking into singing. “Arunanayana ura bahu
vishala”,the eyes are like lotus, the arms are long. The
man
Bbra
epur
janal
emotion is heightened and then Sutradhara sings
m RKRK
describing “Look at the handsome Lord” — an effect
quite Brechtian in its import.
Nagrna, Ramadhun, tritala in symphony, dancer
executing arnad and tihai are used in describing the
Dandaka forest, using Valmiki’s version, the parrnelus are
used to show birds and deer and to capture the eerie
atmosphere Dharnar is used in vilarnbit and drut. To
show snake Kaliya daman ki gat is used. Tataka was
cursed by sage Agastya, but she was a beautiful woman
before that, so I kept Valmiki’s concept.
In showing Yajnas, the sacrifice, chanting from Yajurveda
is employed, and when Maricha and Subahu come they
are in Batman’s dress and the footwork the tatkar sounds
like Tap dancing. The chhanda of four and tishra jati are
used with nagrna in Western mould singing and
experimenting in order to juxtapose familiar
contemporary images. The Rap a la Baba Sehgal by
Navalji has significance here as innocent children are
driven to drug addiction by the society, the popular
tunes of “chij badi hai rnasta masta” used in “Ham hai
mahadushta, hai dusht dusht, mat karo hame rushta

rushta” appears appropriate, as a take off for the
comment.

Against the background of tatkar I have created moving
patterns. Some executing dresses in full mask, some in
eye mask like the pirates. The girls were using their
capes black with red lining to show the tihai and the
beats of 5 in chatushra jati. This is quite innovative in
terms of choreography as I have kept the Kathak intact.
To use boots would look like a sacrilege, but it is not, as

the context is of present times. Baba Sehgal’s Rap can

