म्पाक्योंस्था — _ _._. —_.__~-

A C O N \/ E K S A T! ON 0 N THE PRODUCTION
N. __ की-.—

D A N C E I D R A M A- + R A M A ‘1’ A N A

हर्दि "हैयूँर्गिडाहैं मृदृठ्यर्सिंम्नहँ।"
It was one of those evenings when Shyamanand, Chetna
and I were on the same wavelength talking on the epic

believe in God. My samskaras have further
deepened my faith in God, we may call
him Rama or Krishna or Vishnu. While
dancing to a song in praise of Krishan, I
can not literally fake an emotion for
Krishna. unless I have a model before me.

Ramayana and its presentation in various performing arts,

including the present production Rarnkatha / Ramkahani.
The tone was set by Shyamanand asking question to
himself, which were also a question which Chetna and I
had posed several times and had found different answers
or were still searching for it.

Sun il

: But that could be an archetype and a
racial memory, ingrained in you as God
and you keep him before your eyes, while
addressing him as a nayika.

Chetna

: You may call it by those terms. From

Shyamanand : In my Director's note I have raised this
issue: Do I believe in God?
Sunil

: All of us seek answers to such questions. I
feel our upbringing and what we call

childhood, for me Rama is an entity.'

Samskara, our environment and later on

Shyam
our own growth have to do a lot with it.
May be we raise this issue because we are
involved with a production on the
Ramayana. It offers many challenges to
you as a Director, me as a connoisseur,
and Chetna as a dancer. For somewhere
our faith is put to test.
Chetna

: *I have not intellectualised the problem as
you two have. I am not a nastik and I do

: Let me tell you how the theme drew us. I
had gone to Ayodhya in 1947 with my
mother and had stayed there for a
fortnight. Then recently in 1992 Chetna
and I went there for a programme
organised by Sahamat. It was after almost
an interval of 45 years that I went
thereThe old memories were revived. But
what I saw in the context of the political
turmoil and aftermoth, I realised that we

The Group with Suman Cbattopadbyay Work in Progress, RKRK

13

