not to illustrate, but employ its freedom
for brevity, suggestion, not to create mere
illusion.

context of the theme. maintaining its

dignity and scrinity, but offering the
comment and conveying the message?
S t। ।1 i l

: You have a form like modern musical and

8 u n i।

opera in mind?

: Had you planned costumes which could
have been day to day, say boys and girls
in jeans?

S । r ya Iii

: Yes, I do have some notion and views on

that and I may attempt that in future. But
coming back to the Ramakatha the three
years that went into it front the conception

Chet na

: In the beginning we had toyed with the
idea. But to show Rama's relevance to
people we opted for a dress code that
does not jarr and yet is simple, easy to
traverse from one person to other, we
stopped short of using totally mod clothes.
But where we felt day to day wear is
relevant we went ahead with it.

Sunil

: Certain looseness and lack of formality I
notice in the production.

Shyam

: This is the basic element of the folk

to the form it is now in, I have come to

believe that there is something powerful in
its exposition in whatever form one
attempts, with the result that we see so
many people sitting through the discourses
offered by Moraribapu and his likes? How
do they captivate their target audiences?
Why not use that element for theatre? And
see what the impact is?
Chetna

theatre performance and we have
exploited it purposely. It permits
improvisation within the framework. We
used these devices in work-in-progress
show and it worked with the audiences.

: I worked on it as a Sutradhara and found

that in response even the dancers working
with me and the actors and musicians
were engaged in listening to what I was
commenting. I had been exposed to so
many forms of Ramalila during this period
and had so many terms of references and
with Shyamanand's help identified what

The musicians, the dancers, the actors

found that they were in a harmonious
frame and it was most unobtrusive.

was best suited for the discourse, which

Suni।

: You start with Namasankirtana, pooja of
the Swarupas before the curtain goes up...

Shyam

: Yes, to arouse the performance mood, we
found it as a best device. For it made us

was to be dramatic as well as I was open

to his viewing Kathak as a device to .
achieve it. The sources and techniques
were identified. Well. we had to decide to
end the story telling somewhere, so we
ended it on Ramvivaha. Let go Parshurama
Lakshmana dialogue which is most
popular — in Benaras. They reserve one
whole day for its enactment, and we
ended on a note of celebration.
Shyam

aware and it helped to create the spirit of
devotion and total surrender in the

performances.
Sunil

: Then what were the special roles that you
three played? You, Chetna, and Nawalji?

Shyam

: I have been the instigator, critic, and guide.
Chetna has created Ramkatha /Ramkahani,

: The search was to employ the basic Indian
sensibilities or aesthetics to deepen the
mood by repeating with interesting

selected the material and given the shape
both in terms of dance and abhinaya, and

music along with story tellingWhereas
Nawalji has given words to it and
consolidated it with the script that evolved.

variations and at the same time to

maintain the informal note. I think we
struck the right chord there . Kathak was

With best compliments/roar : Rajastban P6170 Sytztbetz'cs Limited
2403, Acharyajagdisb Chandra Bose Road, Calcutta- 700 020

16

