the tradition renews in the hands of the directors and

shakes at singing, but it has helped them loosen up and
be more free than one would expect classical dancers to
be, helps one to relish it. The counterpoint of a narrator
in somewhat ambiguous role of a sufi/narrator with
green kurta and a scarf, shades of Muslim culture helps
one realise the assimilating nature of the epic
irrespective of caste, creed or religion. When one thinks
of Shehnainawaz Bismillahkhan, praying to Lord Rama
on the ghats of Ganga at Varanasi, or when I think of
meeting a few days ago with the Malaysian dancer Rarnli
Ibrahim at Kuala Lumpur, the great Hamzah, the shadow
puppeteer, who knows the shlokas from the Ramayana,
and prays before the shadow puppets are placed behind
the screen and it does not matter he is by religion a
Muslim, one at once becomes aware of the impact of
this unique epic.

dancers-choreographers and script writer.

I do not want to spill all the beans. Ramkatha of
Shyamanand and Chetna has once again reiterated one‘s

faith in classical dance forms and Indian theatre and
evolve a form which communicates and moves one. It is

possible that since the Ramayana is a khyata Kathavastu,
with which one is familiar, one gets involved in
watching it from the point of how an artist handles it
rather than what. It is the kernel of Indian aesthetics.
Whether the Sanskrit playwrights or the present day
writer, the challenge and interest lies in its interpretation

and the theatrical genre it evolves in its larger
connotation.

Shyamanand manages such references carefully, never
toppling the applecart. The soliloquy by the Sutradhara
referring to Ayodhya, Babri Masjid, jharkhand, the need
for astha, protection from the destructive forces that
besiege the country, the present times and the
predicament that we face at the divisive tendencies of
the politicians whose sole aim is to gain power at any
cost, does not become didactic. There is an intuitive

approach on part of Shyamanand as a director and Shri
Nawal as a script writer that saves the production from
being banal or overtly political. It is tight rope walking.
There is a search for the form of theatre he seems to be
in search for. After he attempted Shakuntala, as a classic,

studying Natyashastra and comprehending the
Natyashastra approach, more to clarify the concepts of
the tradition, working with Odissi guru Kelucharan
Mahapatra and Hindustani vocalist Girija Devi,
Shyamanand has after a long time turned towards the
epic Ramayana, consciously to see how it can interweave
various theatre genres. There have been temptations to
rope in the success formula of films and its instant
appeal. But in his wisdom he has later on discarded the
obvious and edited what has been judicious for such a
form that has no definition. As a matter‘of fact all
attempts at classification on parts of the scholars have
been also not successful when they have taken into
consideration the various forms dealing with the
Ramayana. But the phenomenon has been interesting, as

Wit/9 best compliments/tom : Kaypeejay F011 12616111072
5CPar/e Plaza. 7] Park Street, Calcutta 700 016

26

