rnusuern piece in this region. Whereas in India both in
time and space geographically and tirnewise we have in
each state their own versions. It has continued to

e
qu
ni
ch
te
let
bal
cal
ssi
cla
a
in
na
ya
ma
Ra
es
pin
lip
Phi
the
in operatic form, the actors and dancers singing the
written text and dancing. It was produced when the
Centre completed its 20 years of existence fifteen years
ago. I also saw at India Studies Centre at Tharnrnasat
University, Bangkok, a version of the Ramayana, by the
contemporary author Choo Sung P0, in Chinese Avatara
produced for Singrporean Chinese community.

inspire contemporary directors, dancers and
choreographers to interpret it in the present times,
which proves that it is of eternal interest to the artists
and it continues to challenge them for contemporary
interpretations.

The entire South East Asia offers an immense scope to

Besides the theatrical performances a separate genre of
shadow and marionette puppets exists in South East

one interested in the study of the Ramayana and its
influence on various art forms.

Asia. The epic Ramayana is a living tradition and not a

444% ’
Ram Katha in Rajasthani Folk Traditions — Janaka of the tribals did not reside in any palace.
He lived in an ordinary thatched hut. The tribals' favourite bow, which was also owned by
Janaka, was in its courtyard. It was so heavy that no one could move it. Sita, however, while
smearing the courtyard with cowdung, managed to shift the bow. Janaka then made a
promise that he would give Sita in marriage to anyone who could break the mighty bow
into two pieces. Rama performed this act of strength and was married to her.
हूँ E है / ./ .

Rama was exiled to the forest not due to the mischief and envy of Kaikeyi but due to the
high-handed behaviour of Dasharatha himself. One fine morning Dasharatha, who was a
complete autocrat, made a written announcement on the gate of the city that Bharata and
Shatrughna would rule over his kingdom while Rama and Lakshmana would proceed to the
forest. Thus, according to the tribal Ramayana, the ruler himself was responsible for the exile
of Rama. The tribals have always considered kings to be cruel and high-handed in their
behaviour.

स्का .
Ram Katha in Telugu Folk Literature - Rama narrates another incident which occurred during
their exile. One day when Rama and Sita were wandering at Chitrakut, Sita prepared for her
bath. She smeared her body with raw turmeric and went to the pond to take a dip. But she
returned almost immediately, complaining to Rama her Lord and the descendant of the Solar
race that there was something strange near the bathing pond. The rnischieveous moon was
playing in the pond, with innumerable bees flying over it, making it impossible for her to
bathe. She asked him to accompany her so that he could see for himself. Rama was
perturbed and followed her to the pond. When they reached, Sita pointed to the "moon and
bees". Rama was amused and told her that the "moon" was her own face and the "bees"
were locks of her hair. When she realized her mistake, she bashfully bowed her head.

खी

ll

rR ८

50

