PURWA (Shadow Play), WAYANG GOLEK (Doll

from ‘Kudiattam" had Ram Nattam and Krishna Attam
which later developed into the great Kathakali Dance.
Kerala has also a 41 day Ramayan serial which is called
‘Olva Pannaykuttu’. Karnataka Pradesh has its
‘Yakshagaan‘ which presents many Ramayan episodes. In
Mysore we have Ram Katha in Doddatta and Sonnatta
styles. Tarnilnadu has its ‘Bhagvat Melas‘ and ‘Bharat
Natyam" with a number of Padmas dealing with the
Ramayan story. South India has Ramayan Puppet Plays
and Shadow Plays like Burra Katha, Tholubomalattam,
Togalu Gombe Atta, Tholpava Koothu of Andhra, Mysore
and Kerala. Similarly Orissa has its shadow-puppet play
called ‘Ravan-Chhaya’.

y)
Pla
e
nc
ra
(T
NG
RO
BA
t),
lle
(Ba
RI
TA
RA
ND
SE
,
s)
et
Pupp
& KETJAK (Monkey Dance) from Indonesia, java & Bali.
There is a Ramayan Ballet Festival each month june
through October for four nights during the full moon at
Klaten between Jogjakarta and Surakarta in the Siva
temple of Prabanan.

3.

Ramlila — A Special Performance

Rarnlila is a performance very different from
prevailing styles. So often any play connected with Ram
story, in any form is called a Ramlila. This is neither fair,
nor correct. ‘Ramlila’ is a performance in its own merit

with its own dimensions and its own norms and rules.
Now to name any Ram-play, loosely as Ramlila would
mean that we reject the Ramlila tradition. By taking such
unwanted liberties we are misusing and degenerating a
beautiful, sacred and pious tradition without any rhyme
or reason. We are making this comment here because it
has happened and continues to happen and it is fast
corrupting the purity of Rarnlila and demolishing its
sacred character. It is true that many folk dramas have
been modernized and urbanised, committing grave
injustice to the rich heritage and tradition but here the
interference with Ram Lila is not only an attack on an art
but sacrilege of religious traditions and rituals.

Maharashtra has Marathi Rarnayans like Bhavarth, Shiv,
Atma, Jamini and a dozen others and also an old theatre
tradition of Harikatha, Lalit-vistar, Dashavatar and these

performances have prominent among the Incarnation
plays the story of Ram. Gujrat has old Ramayan tradition
of 14th & 15th Century AD and its Bhavai ‘Ramvesh’ is a
famous play.
Bengal presents Ram Story in Jatra style and they have a
big list of Rarnayans like Kritibas, Madhab-Kandali,
Adbhoot Ramayan, a number of Panchalis and Raibars.
In Western India where the Jain traditions were
predominant Ram Story has found expression in Raso the folk dance drama and we have famous Rasos like
‘Ram Raso’ and ‘Siyaharan Raso’ in Apbransha language.
In Punjab and Hariyana we have references of Ram-Plays
in ‘Guru Nanak’s Asa divar. In UP. the Mathura—
Brindavan area is famous for its Ras-lila but the troups

‘Ramlila’ is not a classical or folk drama. It is neither a
Dance Drama, not a Passion Play. It is a performance

which merits its own special category. It is a religious
ceremony (Anushthan), a religious sacrifice (Yagya), a
ritual, a ‘Bhavaanukeertanam’ (singing the glory of Lord),
an expression of gratitude, a search for the reestablishrnent of belief (Aastha) and a philosophy of firm

also perform ‘Ram Lila’.
Singing of Ramayan story or ‘Ram Kirtan’ may be called
the initial style of Ramayan performance and Lav Kush
the sons of Ram may called the first performers of

faith (Vishwas) in God, an illusory vision of the Lord of

Illusions in his illusive Kingdom. It is a way of worship,

Ramayan in Rama’s Court.

a way of meditation, a sacred entertainment and a holy

In South East Asia ‘Ramayan’ is an equally popular story
and we have dozens of Ramayan stories and equal
number of Shadow and Puppet plays, Ballets, Dance
Dramas based on these works. We have YOKTHE PWE
(Marionette Play) & ZAT GYI (Masket Dance) from

act. The motto of Ramnagar Rarnlila says “Yat kritwa ch
ath drishtwa hi rnuchyate patakair narah" — that is, one
who performs lila and one who sees the lila is absolved
from the sins. Ramlila is, thus, an esoteric worship with

ritualistic practice.
Burma, LAKON KHACH BORAN (Ballet), LAKON KHOL

Rarnlila has two words RAM and LILA. Ram we know
was the incarnation of Lord Vishnu, the supreme Diety

4 (Masked Dance) & NANG SHEK (Shadow Play) from
Kampuchea; WAYANG KULIT (Shadow Play), WAYANG

Wit/9 best complimentsfrom .- Sbr'ee Ganga Construction Company Ltd.
35, Cbittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta- 700 012

32

