Bhartendu Harish Chandra, Raghuraj Singh of Rewa,
Kashta-jihwa swami, Baba Kharab Das and the great
Rarnayan scholar king Maharaj Ishwari Prasad Narayan
Singh. A guide for the performance was written by them.
(Rarnayan Parichaya and Parishista Prakash). This book
even today in the ‘performance mannual’.
Ramnagar is a small town, opposite Varanasi on the
Eastern banks of Ganga. Here the entire town, during

the Ramlila season, becomes the Ramlila stage (an acting
area of Seven square miles).

6.

Stage Design

As we said earlier Chitrakut and Rarnnagar lila
hardly have any definite stage design and whereever
required they follow the pattern of Tulsi state. In fact we
would like to call Chitrakut style as Temple Type or
Jhanki Lila, Rarnnagar Style as Phenomenon type or
Ghatita Lila, (Lila that happens). Ass style or Varanasi
city style is Tulsi stage type or Tulsi manch lila.
Unfortunately today in Varanasi there is no Ramlila
ground with Tulsi stage, except the one in Sheopur
Bazar. One can see a semblence at Chitrakut and at Nati
Imli. At all other places during the Ramlila temporary
platforms are erected even on the busy roads and the
said design emerges in part or full. (The author had the
honour of erecting a true Tulsi Manch in the premised of
Shreyas, a school in Ahmedabad, Gujrat and it is a pity
that no group in Varanasi has cared to erect a permanent
Tulsi Manch).

Tulsi stage is without any backdrops, or screens, there
are hardly any scenic designs or sets used. Here the
actors sit on raised platforms and move in the lanes
- connecting the platforms. We can compare Tulsi Manch
with Nautanki, Khyal or Raslila stage which are akin to
proceniurn stage with backdrops and curtains. Terukuttu,
Bhavai, Tarnasha are performed on the ground level;
Maach uses a raised level but Tulsi’s Ramlila has totally

different design uses a raised level but Tulsi’s Ramlila
has totally different design.

We would like to describe this Tulsi manch in some
greater detail because it may be of some interest to the
specialist of modern stage designs. This stage design
solves many of the problems of the proceniurn stage and
shows a possible way to establish better rapport with the
audience. A Tulsi Manch is a rectangular open space of
60X100 metres north south. Now on North and on South
ends there are raised platforms of 5 X 5 metres North
stage is the highest with seven steps about है metre high.
The Southern platform is five steps and 1.5 metre high.
Eastern has a reserved space of ] X 5 metre on the
ground level. The platforms especially North and South
are joined by a metre wide lane. Now the North stage
we would like to name as Divine stage or Vishnu
Manch, South Stage as Royal stage or Raj Manch, East
stage is Ladies stage or Devi Manch, and the West stage
is Public stage or Jan Manch. Divine stage is reserved for
Divine characters or Swaroops, Royal stage accornodates
the kings during the different performances (like
Dasharath, Janak, Bali, Sugriva, Ravan etc), Ladies stage
is for Ladies (Queens of Dashrath, and ofjanak, Sita in

Janak’s garden or in Ashok Vatika) and finally the Public
stage is for Rarnayanis or the chorus group which recites
the Rarncharitrnanas. Two more platforms are erected
temporarily, one between Royal and Public stage as the
platform for Shiva’s Bow, during Dhanush Yagya Lila and
a small one between Ladies and Divine stage to
represent Nandigram where Bharat sits in his self
imposed exile. Now the space between the platforms
and lanes is occupied by the audience (thus the
audience sits inside the stage!) Tulsi Lila also requires a
tank or river and Shiva temple and a Durga temple to
become the sets in special performances ( e.g. Sita
worshipping Goddess, Ram worshipping Shiva, Ram
Crossing the river or bridging the sea).

