r

नं

I he Concept

one of its kind in India, was set up in 1959. Over the
years the School has made advances on various
fronts including a rapid expansion of its activities in

of Traditional Theatre Workshops
in the Regional Areas

all parts of the country. It has produced a galaxy of
talented actors, directors, script-writers, designers,
technicians and educationists who work in theatre,
films and television and have been recipients of
several awards at the national and international level.

By the l9705 the national consensus upon which institutions such as the

The training in the School is based on a thorough,

NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

1

The National School of Drama, one of the foremost
theatre training institutions in the world and the only

comprehensive, carefully-planned syllabus, which
covers every aspect of theatre, in which theory is
related to practice, and in which all work is
ultimately put to test before a wide public audience.
The syllabus takes into account the methods of great
theatre personalities who have shaped contemporary
theatre in all its variety of expressional forms. The
systematic study and practical performing experience
of Sanskrit drama, modern Indian drama, traditional
Indian theatre forms, Asian drama and Western
drama give the students a solid grounding and wide
perspective in the art of theatre.
The School has a Repertory Company and Theatre—
in-Education Company in Delhi and a Regional

Resource Centre at Bangalore. NSD’s Extension
Programme seeks to extend and diffuse its activities
in all regions of the country. A programme for
research, documentation and publication is a recent
addition to strengthen the academic activities of the
School. The School’s publications include anthologies of plays in different Indian languages translated
into English, reference works and theatre studies in
Hindi and two regular periodicals, viz. Rang Prasang
in Hindi, and Theatre India in English, in their eighth
and seventh years respectively.

N SD had functioned since the 1960s was beginning to break-down. Forms
of regional assertion had begun to interrogate the Nehruvian model of the
centralized institution. B.V. Karanth who became Director of NSD in
1977 responded to these articulations by attempting to forge a
representative “contemporary idiom” which drew upon indigenous
performance practices.
Karanth, in a reversal of the then existing system of the three-year
diploma course with specializations, set up an “integrated” syllabus that
reﬂected his belief that the theatre was primarily a collective activity with
no stringent division of responsibilities. As he put it “.. .there has to be a
solid practical training, which determines the voice, the body and the
sensibility of the training as its nucleus. Covered alongside are all
connected areas of work major and minor such as stagecraft, stage
technique, lighting, direction, even script-writing.” Such an approach led
to the shifting of the school’s pedagogic emphasis from an academic
engagement to hands-on learning in the process of production. This was a
processual, artisanal approach where one learned through participation.
There was also a substantial shift in terms of the aesthetic content
transmitted. Karanth’s own training was manifest in his perception of
dance and music as central to an lndian performance vocabulary.
Emphasis was placed on training in voice, sound and music; and various
traditional forms that based on body movements were also incorporated.
Also, gurus of the traditional forms were regularly invited to work with
students.
The present form of the 45 days workshop in a particular traditional form
for the students of the school is the extension to the above approach.

