The great saint social reformer and musician of Assam, Sreemanta Sankardeva created Ankia Naat

Ankia Naat Bhaona

"१ ‘5
h

a:
.=
“
ﬂ

=
८
a
८८

Bhaona to propagate Neo- Vaishnava religion in Assam. The Ankia Naat have become a distinctive
traditional performing art form in the field of dramatic art of lndia. Though, Sankardeva created Ankia
Naat by bringing various aspects from the ancient Sanskrit drama as well as from other traditional
dramatic art forms. he made it innovative by bringing his own ideas to it. Like a Sanskrit drama begins.
Ankia Naat also starts its presentation with Purbaranga or Dhemali. The dhemalies are called Gayan
Bayan. The singers and the accompanists. dressed in white Dhotifheleng .Shirt and white Turben. play
khol with different hand gestures and loot steps. There are different parts in these dhemalies. Astor
dhemali.Saru dhemali. Raag dhemali. (jhosa dhemali.Barpeta dhemali etcBefore the Bhaona begins. a
kind of lamp,with nine flames are being lit up, called Agnigarh. Agnigarh is prepared with bamboo or
wood. It symbolizes nine types of devotion. Sankardeva symbolises the charecteristic of the religion
through these lamps. in the very beginning of the play of Ankia Naat.
Sutradhargan important character of ankia naat,describes the drama from the beginning to the end.
Sutradhar introduces the play. describes the characters and its movements.story line etc. He reminds the
audience about the devotion towards god by delivering the dialogue "niranmre lmr/ bul. liuri /)0/ "again
and again. Different songs are used for the entry and exit of the players. impression of the character,
war scenes etc. There are various ragas in which the songs are composed of. L ikewise.there are also
definite taal for the songs. Some main taalas are Ek taal. Pari taal. Suta taal. .lyotimaan.Sutkala.Kharman
etc.
Some main ragas are Shuhai, Dhanasri. Srigandhar, Sindhura. Aashoari, Kanad, Ahir. Gauri. Kalyan
etc. Sloka and a Bhatima are another aspects of Ankia Naat . Ankia Naat starts with Nandi sloka. There
are two Nandi slokas, one is prayer towards god and the other is to describe the play. There are also
slokas in between the dialogues of the characters and the sutradhar . Bhatima is the devotional song .
Sutradhar sings Bhatima at the beginning of the play describing the main character. Dev bhatima. Raj
bhatima. Mukti mangal Bhatima are some bhatimas used in ankia anaat .
Lyrical quality of the dialogues is an important aspect of Ankia Naat. The language is not Assamese.
It is a mixture of Assmese, Hindi. Oria and Maitheliffhe language is called "Brojaweli‘. “Poyar’ is the
song of apology to God or to the respected ones and ‘Bilaap‘ signifies sadness. These are used in
between the dialogues maintaining the rhythm and lyrical quality.
One of the major aspects of Ankia Naat is the style of characters with which they enter and depart . The
entrances and exits are performed with some definite rhythms on Khol. The mood and status of the
characters are being presented through body movements and footsteps. This rhythmic movement
changes in accordance with the change of the mood and the actions of the characters. Similiarly. there
are also changes in taalas in different compositions of music.

