seeing the portrait, Usha was delighted with joy. Then Chitralekha promised Usha to bring
Aniruddha for her. Chitralekha with her skill in creating illusions started her journey to
kidnap the prince of Dwaraka, Aniruddha. In the mid of her way to the destination, she
met Narada. Narada taught her the lesson of ‘Haranluki Maya’ by which she turned
herself into a ‘bee’ and entered into Aniruddha’s bedroom where he was in sleep. He fell
in love with Chitralekha at the ﬁrst sight. But she told him about Usha and the man of her
dream. She cleverly converted him into a ‘Bhramar’ and took him on her back to
S onitpur.
Usha and Aniruddha got married secretly in the ‘Agnighar’, where Usha was guarded.
After a few days, the old maid servant ( kuji—burhi) who was appointed as the caretaker
of U sha came to know the truth and informed King Baan and made him aware of the real
fact . King Baan raged and captured Aniruddha after a valiant resistance. On the other
side, the sudden missing of Aniruddha created a chaotic environment in Dwaraka. As the
whole incident was narrated by Narada to Krishna, he immediately headed to Sonitpur
with his Yadav Sena ( Soldiers).Baan was defeated by Krishna in the great battle and to
save his kingdom, he prayed his devotee, Shiva for help. Lord Shiva raised and announced
the battle against Krishna for the sake of his devotee. This great battle of Hari-Har will be
the cause of the destruction of the universe. Knowing this, Brahma requested to end the
Hari-Har Y'uddha and on his request and prayer both Shiva and Krishna laid down their
arms. As lord Shiva had requested, so ShriKrishna forgave King Baan. Usha-Aniruddha
got married ritually and in the end ShriKrishna took them back to Dawarka.

W.
.५. ५

r.

B '< B Z - ﬂ 3 'I

another. In the meanwhile she painted Aniruddha, the grandson of Shri Krishna. On

स्ने

The story of the play U sha Parinaya is originally taken from Bhagawat Purana.
And is evolved by compiling various sub stories and incidents with the elements of
fantasy taken from Ananda Kandali’s ‘Kumara Haran’. This play is charectrised by using
speciﬁc elements of Ankia Naat and is also inﬂuenced by the music and body movements
in Ojapaali.
King Baana, whose capital was Sonitpur, a powerful and mighty Asura king who was
blessed as the owner of a thousand shoulders and heartily devoted worshipper of
Lord Siva. Once in a dreamful night, His one and only beloved beautiful daughter Usha
dreamt a handsome mighty young prince, who proposed her for love and kissed her. After
waking up from the sleep, not being able to find him in the reality, she became
disappointed and explained the incident to her dearest and confident friend Chitralekha,
who was an extra ordinarily accomplished artiste and a dancer who has acquired ability
and power to convert herself into different creatures with the art of creating illusions.
Usha requested Chitralekha to bring the man who came in her dream. But who was the
one? On her request she painted the pictures of all the handsome mighty princess of the
universe. Usha rejected all the paintings of Devatas, Danavas, Yakshas, Kinnaras and
Gandharvas. Finally Chitralekha painted the pictures of the human princes one after

