Gunakar Dev Goswami, born on 3rd February, l 970 at (.iuwahati, Assam.
Brought up in a cultural family. He tried to incorporate the traditional forms
and experimented to innovate an alternative Assamese theatre inspiring from
the rich Assamese indigenous performing art and culture as the springboard.
He took training in ‘Bhaona‘ and ‘Sattriya Nritya’ under eminent gurus of the
ﬁeld. He is also learning folk performing art forms like ‘thapaali‘ and
‘Deodhani’ under the guidance of guru Lalit tha.
In l 991 Gunakar set up the organization ‘PURBARANGA‘, at Guwahati.
Gunakar had written l2 plays and directed over 40 plays so far.
In the short span of time, Gunakar participated in a number of national and
international theatre festivalsHe was invited to Bharat Rang Mahotsav five
times with the plays like Zerenga, Veerangana, Sati, Santras, Tula Aru Teja
etc. which were composed and directed by him are successfully performed in
various places like New Delhi, Hyderabad. Kolkata, Bihar, Orissa etc.
Gunakar is the first person in Assamese theatre who is trying to present Ankia
Naat Bhaona in modern stage with modern techniques of design. Under his
direction Ankia Naat ‘SriRam Vijoy',which was a new turn in exploring
Bhaona on modern stage, was performed in NSD, New Delhi, Nandikar,
Kolkata and Hyderabad University.
Gunakar also participated in various prestigious dance festivals as a folk and

classical dancer. Some of them are Khajuraho Dance festival, Dweep

about the llil'ﬂﬂtlll‘

Mahotsav, Mahabharat Utsav-2005, Viraasat-2006, Lok Kala Utsav etc.

He also got the Best Actor award in Asom Natya Sanmilan for the play
‘Kalantarar Gaddya’ in the year 2000. In the same year Gunakar got the Best
Folk Playwright Award and in the year 2003 he got Best Director Award at
National Theatre ()lympiad, Cuttak for the play ‘santras‘. In the year 2002
Gunakar was honored by the fellowship from the Department of Culture for
his project titled “To Study Assam‘s invaluable Mati—Akhoras and its
application in modern theatre as a new expression“. (iunakar also got
ﬁnancial assistance from ministry of tourism and culture for his research
project-‘Ojapaali and deodhani-its growth and development. Gunakar also
received the “Best production of the Year -2005” award from ‘Uttarbanga
Natyajagat“ for the play ‘Sati‘ written and directed by him.

