NSD, one of the foremost theatre trainin

institutes
g
in India was set up in i 959. Over the years, the school has

"हैं क्या
/%/2
८/ 7 /

made advances on various fronts including a rapid
expansion of its activities in all parts of the country. it has
produced a galaxy of talented actors, directors, script

School of I re

re

m
हु:::
E
urn-I

writers, designers, technicians and educationists who
work in theatre, film and television and have been

recipieni. of several awards at the National and
Inter; 'rzmal level. The training in the school is based on
a the 3331 comprehensive, carefully—planned syllabus
vi tech t; ms to cover every aspect of theatre and in which
ड़ेह्नपृदृड्डू- .- y is related to practice. All work is ultimately put to
test before a wide public audience. The syllabus takes
into account the method of great theatre personalities
who have shaped contemporary theatre in all its variety
of expressional forms. The systematic study and practical
performing experience of Sanskrit drama, Modern Indian
drama, Traditional Indian theatre forms, Ancient drama
and Western drama give the students a solid grounding

in!

m.

a:
Q
E

Q

and wide perspective in the art of theatre.

U
The School has a, Repertory Company and Theatre in

t he

3% F

Education (T.l.E) company in Delhi and a Regional
Resource

Centre

at

Bangalore.

NSD’s

Extension

Programme seeks to extend and diffuse its activities in all
regions of the country. A program for research, documentation and publication is a recent addition to strengthen
the academic activities of the school. The school’s
publication includes anthologies of plays in different
I nd ia n languages translated into English and Hindi.

खी
औ:::
Ila-l
qua

:2

O
.Q

त्

y the T970’s, the national consensus upon which institutions
such as the NSD had functioned since the 1960’s, was beginning to
break down. Forms of regional assertion had begun to interrogate
the Nehru-vian model of the Centralized, institutions. 8. V. Karanth
who became director of NSD in 1977 responded to these
articulations by attempting to forge a representative 'Contemporary
ldiom’ which drew upon indigenous performance practices.
Karanth, in a reversal of the then existing system of the three year
Diploma Course with specializations, set up an ’integrated’ syliabus
that reflected his belief that the theatre was primarily a collective
activity with no stringent division of responsibilities. As he put it,
”.. .there has to be a solid practical training, which determines the
voice, the body and the sensibility of the training as its nucieus.
Covered alongside are all connected areas of work, motor and
minor, such as stage craft, stage technique, lighting, direction, even '~
script writing.” Such an approach led to the shifting of the school’s
pedagogic emphasis from an academic engagement to hands on
learning in the process of production. This was a process oriented,
artisanal approach where one learnt through participation.
There was also substancial shift in terms of the aesthetic content
transmitted. Karanth's own training was manifested in his
perception of dance & music as central to an lndian performance
vocabulary - Emphasis was paid on training in voice, sound, music
and various traditional forms based on body movements were also
incorporated. Also, Gurus of traditional forms were regularly invited
to work with students.
The present form of 45 days workshop in a particular traditional
form for the students of the school is an extention to the above
approach.

