०/

/
३ l

’

’ ' 7, play is based on the Artkia Naat text ’Sri Ram Viiay, which was the last
Artkia naat written by lVlahapurush Srimanto Sankardeva. The play is taken
from the Ramayana and the Agni-Purana, Chapter V. The original text is irt
:Braiawali and has been translated into Hindi specifically keeping in rnirtd the
«rhyming nature of the dialogues. The songs, however, have been retained irt
[Original Braiawali. An attempt has also been made to retain the original
flavor of the text while translating. The whole story of the Ramayana is rtot
found in this play. It has three parts: i) Marich —~ Subahu Badh, ii) Sita
,Swayamvar, iii) Parashuram’s Darpachurna.
‘ ३ The story begins with sage Vishwarnitra's visit to King Dasaratha at
iAyodhya. With the latter’s permission, the sage takes away his sons, Ram
and Lakshman, to his hermitage for protection of his yagya (sacrifice) from

epredations of rakshasas (demons). On the way, Vishwarnitra teaches
them Astravidya (art of arms combat). Soon after, they are attacked by
' 'araka, a forest Rakshasi (female demon) but Ram artd Lakshman with ease
ktll her. After their arrival at the herrnitage, two demons by the name of
Marich and Subahu appear artd begin to attack all the sages participating in
., te yagya. Rama, with his arrows, drives them off artd helps i rt the successful
tornpletion of the yagya. As a gesture of gratitude, Vishwarnitra takes them
o Mithila where several princes front far and wide have assembled for
}';’$ayamvar' (self selection of bridegroom) of Sita, daughter of King Janak.
j'According to a voice irt the sky, Sita had been destined to be the consort of
Zthat prince who could skillfully lift the gigantic Aiagava bow of Lord Shiva and
'igproperly put an arrow to it. None of the assembled princes could move the
*bow, but Ram dexterously lifts the bow and breaks it irtto two. Thereupon Sita
"advances slowly and garlands Ram acknowledging him as her husband.
Seeing this, the assembled princes rose as one and attacked Rama. A battle
”followed irt which they were all defeated. The marriage was then solemnized

garter which they set out for Ayodhya. On the way, however, Parashuram
, ttercepted. Parashuram was infamous for his hatred for the Kshatriyas and
{had killed many with his axe. The Aiagava bow was gifted to Janaka by
arashuram and he was enraged on its destruction. He threatertes to
fjbehead' Ram and hearirtg this, Vishwarnitra challenges him to a duel.
fVishWamitra was defeated artd a fight ensued between Parashuram and
(Ram. Even after several attempts, Parashuram’s axe refuses to attack Rant.
,XThus, he ﬁnally recognized Rant as the embodiment of the Supreme Being

:jjand accepted his defeat. But Ram had already taken art arrow out for
E‘POI’CShUt‘Gm'S demise, he thus used the bow to block Parashuram’s path to
heaven forever artd spared his life.

