Brought up in a cultural family Gunakar Dev Goswami got the privilege to meet various eminent personaliiies anaE

/’ '.
/ दृ
1/,1 - r/x‘.

see some of their valuable work. From 12 years of age he had started doing various one act and full length plays.

हूँ

Gunakar has already written 12 plays and Directed'over 40 plays. He tried to Incorporate the folk forms and

i

experiment to discover an alternative Assamese theatre using the rich Assamese indigenous performing arts ana

W” /’ '

culture as a spring board. He took training in ’Bhaona’ and ’Sattriya Nritya’ under eminent Gurus of this field. He
also learnt Folk performing Art forms of Assam and ’Oiapaali’ and ’Deodhani’ under the guidance of Guru Lalit
Oiha. He also participated in the theatre workshop under H. Kanhailal at Kalakshetra, Manipur.

In 1991 Gunakar set up an organization ”PURBARANGA’ and started a new planned project. The proiect involved
visiting remote areas, doing workshops, seminars and interaction programmes which explored the basic principles
of theatre on Performance Aesthetic. It is committed to Ankia Naat Bhaona, Oiapaali and contemporary recreation
of ancient plays, Dramatization of poem, Folk Songs, Folk tales and performance of new plays.

Meanwhile, Gunakar has participated a number of national and international drama festivals. The plays Zerenga,
Veerangana, Sati, Santras, Tula Aru Teia, Ratnakar, Abhiinanam etc. composed and directed by him were successfully
performed in various places like New Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Bihar, Orissa etc. The famous festivals he

U ﬂkd Dev Goswami

participated in are Bharat Rang Mahotsav — N.S.D., Nandikar Theatre Festival, Young Directors Festivals organized
by Sangeet Natak Akademi, National Theatre Festival - Hyderabad, Sreehani Mahotsava -Santi Niketan, Silliguri
Nattya Mela, Satellite Theatre Festival - Bangalore, Rang Parampara — Guirat etc. Gunakar is the first person in
Assamese theatre who is trying to present Ankia Naat Bhaona on Modern stage with modern techniques and design.
Under his direction Ankia Naat ’Sri Ram Viioy' was performed in N.S.D. New Delhi, Nandikar, Kolkata and

Hyderabad University.
Gunakar has also participated in various prestigious dance festivals as a folk and classical dancer. Some of the important dance
festivals are — Khaiurahu Dance Festival, Dweep Muhotsav, Mahabharat Utsav—2005, Viraasat—2006; Loke Kala Utsav etc.

He got Best Actor Award at Guwahati University in 1991 . He also got the Best Director Award at Asom Natya Sanmilan for the
play ’Kalantarar Gaddya’ in the year 2000. In the same year Gunakar got the Best Folk Playwright award and in the year 2003
he got Best Director award at National Theatre Olympiad, Cuttack for his play ’Santras’. In the year 2002 'Gunakar was
honoured for the fellowship from Dept. of Culture for his proiect titled ’To study Assam’s invaluable Mati-Akhoras and its
relevance in application in modern theatre as a new expression.’ Gunakar also got financial assistance from Ministry of Tourism
and Culture for his research proiect- ’Oiapaali and Deodhani- its growth and development'.

Gunakar received the ’Best production of the year-2005’ Award from ’Uttarbanga Natyaiagat' Silliguri for the play ’Sati’ written
and directed by him.

Gunakar Dev Goswami is the first Assamese Director under whom the 2nd year students of National School of Drama had
taken a theatre training. Under his direction the students had successfully performed the play ”Usha Parinaya” in the form of
Ankia Naat Bhaona. The music and design was done by Gunakar Dev Goswami. Presently, he is invited as a visiting faculty at
the performing Art Centre of Dibrugarh University and also in University of Hyderabad Theatre Department. He is also working
as a teaching faculty in various drama institutions of Assam.

Besides these, Gunakar Dev Gloswami has also established himself as a music composer and a choreographer by working
under various national level protects under well-known directors which includes— H. Kanhailal of Manipur, Baharul Islam and
Pranial Saikia of Assam, D. Srinivash of Hyderabad.

