3.८

रु § \§

/

क्या

हूँ

.4nkia Naat Bhaona is the only traditional theatre of Assam containing almost every aspect of the Art of Theatre. l
believe that practicing of Bhaona not only helps for extention and expansion of Bhaona, but also works as a medium for
physical and mental growth of a drama artist. The main power of the Ankia Naat Bhaona is that it is mainly based on the
performance text. The dialogues have a unique passionate melody in itself. Rhythernic physical body language is considered
as the main feature. ’Ulaah’, which means a pleasant wave is a unique performance style.
In the play ’Sita Sayamvar’, there are deviations from the original text of the ’Ramayana’ of Valmiki in several particulars.
In the Ramayana, Vishvamitra took Rama and Lakshmana to the sacrifice of King Janaka at Mithila to show them the
Aiagava bow of Shiva. There was no Swayamvar nor any assembly of princes. Again, according to the Ramayana
Vishwamitra never accompanied Rama and his party to Ayodhya, nor did he fight with Parashuram on the way. It may be

added that the ludicrous scene about the assembled princes amorous exclamations at the sight of Sita and their humiliating
punishment at the hand of the maids have marred, to a certain extent, the artistic beauty of the play.
The play is based on the Ankia Naat ’Sri Ram Viiay’, which was the last Ankia naat written by Srimanto Sankardeva. We
खी

present ’Sita Sayamvar’ in the style of Bhaona. But we have two differences with the traditional Ankia Bhaona in this '

'हूँ
/

presentation. Firstly, we are not presenting the drama to propagate religion or as a ritual, as is traditionally done. It is an
independent play incorporating various elements of Bhaona, a new language which is an outcome of voice rendering,
physical and psychological activities of the students. Secondly, the drama would be presented in a proscenium stage, where
people enioy performances from one side only. In this regard, we feel the necessity of some stage designing work. We
believe, this kind of change will not affect the very structure of our Ankia Naat Bhaona.
The whole story of the Ramayana is not found in this Bhaona. It has three parts of the Ramayana, namely (i) MarisSubahu Badh, (ii) Sita Sayamvar and (iii) Parasurama’s Darpasurna. We are trying our best to present the some context very
gracefully through this dramatic presentation. ”Ankia Naat Bhaona” is being performed in Satras and Namghars by the

artists who are well acquainted with this art of Bhaona. Now, for the first time, our new upcoming artists, who are not very
well familiar with this culture, are going to perform the drama after vigorous and thorough training cum practice,

