dub के 6bछो c‘z ८८० c":जो 6:d3 4: 61?d3 id? ‘h थी छोd? <b‘b ch chJ3 ‘12 chch प्राय" chd? :13ti? मुँछ Ch61: ८13(La ch chch :13 st4) 63¢ ठी Ci?ठी shही Cbशा ली d? d?d? धी८1० ८13 shलूँ; ‘13Ch do itपैठे औरEb ‘h ‘1'श्री

COMMITMENT :
THE FORCE BEHIND DRAMATIC TRUTH
There is no predicting when it will come. But suddenly, on the rehearsal
stage, there it is : the moment of truth; the moment when the many fibers of

a production converge for a unified thrust into reality.
becomes that truth.

it is then that a play

And that it does takes commitment

“The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds" is powerful
stuff. It is relentlessly contemporary—a drama demanding total commitment
from every person connected with it. Playwright Paul Zindel's dedication to

his concept of hope taking root in the barren, decayed soil of today's world
earned him both the Obie Award and the New York Critics Award as Best
American Play of 1971. Zindel has been referred to as an updated Tennessee
Williams. In my opinion, his relevancy is even greater than Williams’, and Zindel
is certainly one of America's mOSI promising new playwrights.

The commitment of our cast members, of the production crews handling

sets, lights, sound and music, of ticket sellers and ushers, has infused the play
with vital force.
the audience.

And together they make their ultimate

commitment: to you,

The loyalty and enthusiasm these young people have displayed

in this production have made this a truly cooperative venture.

The role of Beatrice Hunsdorfer is an extraordinarily complex one.

It takes

a high degree of sensitivity and perceptivity to understand the character of a

tormented, vindictive woman whose reactions to life are as deadly as the
destructive work of gamma radiation. In Nellis Kincaid, I found an actress and
human being beautilully qualified for the starring role. Nellis is extremely
creative. A promising poet, she is truly able to understand the fraiities of one
who, defeated by her world's cruelty, is overwhelmed by situations beyond her
ability to cope. The maturity which Nellis brings to the role of Beatrice is a
polished product of her total commitment to the piay's truth.

with the role—and deepened her own

Nellis has lived

innate understanding of people

in

extremis—since the day she was cast.

हृनंनंनंनंक था ९33३3सुंफँक़फैकमू‘ ‘i‘ हृ'केंद्र' ‘P कें पै"

दृदृ' वृ' हैं" कें 'हैं''i’ '३' ii?एँ' दृ’ti" कें हैम"हर्द ११3 4’'हैं' १३' 'दें'वृ' वें' मृ'कैक 'दें' कें' =154" ‘i' कककहृईहृकृककृनंककनंअं कढव'वे

8

