Surabhi, a rare institution of family theatres in India has
an unbroken record of 125 years. This vibrant theatre
form has been patronized both by the urban and rural
theatre lovers in Andhra I’radesh.

Malaya in 1903. Starring excellent singer-actors like
Chinna Ramayya, Anjanamma, Papabai, and Venkubai,
featuring the latest equipment, and with Subbadas‘s
training, the troupe gained fame for its productions.

The legacy ofSurabhi theatre began in a village called
Unlike in other professional companies of those times,
Surabhi (originally called Sorugu), a tiny hamlet in the
women not only played female roles, but also male roles,
Kadapa district ofAndhra I’radesh. The ancestors of
which contributed to the theatres popularity and success.
this theatre family migrated from Maharashtra in the
early I 8th century. Members of the Vanarasa family, the
Surabhi theatre has had a robust growth, drawing
earliest Surabhi ancestral family in Andhra mastered the
inspiration from, and consolidating itself on the
art of 7770/11 Bomma/ata, the traditional shadow puppet
foundations offolk and modern theatres in Andhra.
play. In the year 1885, a theatrical effort was initiated by
It has incorporated elements of the shadow theatre,
Vanarasa Govindrao and Chinna Ramayya. They were
traditional Padya Nat/1.64m (verse drama) and the I’arsi
invited to perform at a wedding in the house of patrons,
Theatre dating back to the nineteenth century. It applied
Rarni Reddy and Chenna Reddy where they staged
the colour schemes of shadow theatre in make—up such as
Keecbaka Vad/Ja, an episode from the Mahabharata, which chalk, larnpblack, red, and yellow ochre. Complex sets,
was till then only depicted using leather puppets. This
magnificent backdrops, lighting, and visual special effects
production was a huge success and a turning point for the were the special characteristics of Surabhi, which evoke
puppeteer family, which decided to further promote the
admiration and wonder even today.
live drama, and thus began the Surabhi theatre movement
in Andhra. The baton of stage was thereon transferred
As observed by Anuradha Kapur, the painted backdrops
from one generation to the next and presently it’s with
of the Surabhi Theatre evoke ‘surplus of illusion‘, ‘floating
the seventh generation. What started off in a modest way
spaces’ and ‘space of fantasy’ and ‘by which the Surabhi
in the mid-nineteenth century presently has over 3,000
stage appears to accommodate’, as it were, ‘several
family members working in a rare and inimitable family
different spaces within it‘l”.The painted plunging curtains
theatre group.
of the Parsi Theatre ofwhich Surabhi is a sub—genre, was
In the early twentieth century, Raptati Subbadas, who
was an actor and Harikat/Ja exponent, wrote, directed,
“lSee Anuradha Kapur, uOptics for the Stage: Curtains of the
and played the lead. The group attained huge popularity
Sui'abhi Company" in Jyotindra Jain (ed), India} Popular
on all its tours, which included coastal Andhra in 1901,
Culture: Ironic SID/1a); and Fluid Image; (Mu mbai ; Marg
Madras presidency and Mysore in 1902, Burma and
Publications, 2007)

