Aveti I’oornima started her own theatre group, the
Sri Sarada Natya Mandali, along with her husband
Aveti Ramaiah. She also acted in films Apavadu,
Sammzt/M/mmmzi, Andala Ramudu, Mmyalzmzuggu and
S€€t/J[Z Rama Kalyzzmzm.
Aveti Poornima was honored by Andhra Pradesh
Government and several
important organizations including Andhra Pradesh
Sangeeta Nataka Akademy and Andhra Nataka
Kala Parishad.

Aveti Baba Rao
Aveti Baba Rao, son ofAveti Pullaiah and Smt.
Dhanalakshmi, was born on 7th May, 1923. He started
learning violin at a tender age from Sri Hanurnantha Rao
who was a student of Garikaparti Kotaiah Devara. Aveti
Baba learned violin and harrnoniurn. He became the
harmonist for Sri Govindaraya Surabhi Natya Mandali.
Aveti Baba Rao performed crucial roles like Duryodhana,
Ravana, Arjuna, Kamsa. He left his grandfather’s parent
company to begin his own company Sri Sarada Vijaya
Natya Mandali in 1949, which is among the ﬁve existing
Surabhi theatre groups. Even today Baba Rao is actively
involved in the company, playing harrnonium and
guiding youngsters.

Rekandar Bhoja Raju
Rekandar Bhoja Raj u, son of Rekandar China Venkata
Rao and Nataka Kalapraveena Smt. Subhadramma,
was born on 11th October 1929 at Piduguralla Village,

Guntur District.
Bhoja Raju performed the comic roles of Subbi Setty. He
performed roles such as Duryodhana, Hiranyakashyapa
and Kamsa with poise and perfect understanding. He also
performed diverse roles in the three plays, B/Jz'mm, Bast/1i
Dewar/m Yadamma and C/mndz'prz‘ya, directed by B V
Karanth for Sri Venkateswara Natya Mandali.
Bhoja Raju was an all rounder— he was a wig maker,
rnoulder, scene painter, electrician, lighting expert, engine
mechanic besides being a harmonist and a tabla player.
He successfully managed Sri Venkateswara Natya Mandali
after his mother’s death. Bhoja Raju passed away on 2 1 st
of September 2005 while performing as Mayala Marati
in Balmmgamma at Visakhapatnam and the funeral took
place a t Hyderabad.
Rekandar Venkata Rao (Venkoba Rao)
Sri Rekandar Venkata Rao was born in 1933 and started
performing at the age of seven. He acted, directed and
wrote scripts; he wrote the script for Sri menmmgzzrz'

feel/ﬁlm Chant/7m. During 1960s, he started his own
group called Sri Sarada Prasanna Kala Mandali. His group
was active until 1988. Both villagers and connoisseurs of
arts admired him.

