B a] an agamm a
l’anuganti family marry the seven girls, 'I he youngest one.
Karyavardhi. marries the youngest liilanagamma who
gives birth to a son ‘Balas‘ardhi'.
'lhe evil magieian .\la,\'ala Marati in his ‘ghos‘ts den has
lost his passion for his liamee Sangu. Now, he wishes to
go for the worlth most heautiliul woman. l le knows that
Balanagamma is the most heautihil wotnan. and with his
magical powers, transforms her into a dog, and hrings her
to his den.

Balanagammas hushand Katyavat'dhi with his hrothers
eomes in seart h of his wife. Marati turns them into

statues. Alter nine years, the grown up Balavardhi. son ol
24th February, 2010
Duration: 2 hours 15 minutes
The play starts with Bhulakshmi des'i. the ehildless queen

of King Navahhojaraaja praying to sage glatanga सिं।"
children. 'Ihe sage tells her to take just seven lirllits from

Balanagamma ancs to know ahout the ahduet ion of his
mother and that his father went missing while s'eart hing
lot Balanagamma.
Balas'ardhi det ides to find his parents. During his seareh.
he kills a tiger. marries the daughter ol the king ol that
tountry. ( )n Nagendris direetion. he goes to Maratis

plat e. l lere. with the help or an old lady Vlamhalla l’eddi.

a mango tree in the garden and eat. and hy doing this

the tree. ’l he snake king Nagendra who guards the tree
gets angry and wants to kill the queen. 'l he queen hegs

he enters Mantis den. Keeping Marati under intoxieat ion
oliliquor. Balavardhi meets his mother litlanagamma in
the jail. \X'ith her help. he extraets the seeret or
Maratis lile.
l’mlavardhi erosses seven seas and hrings the parrot in

Nagendra inf life so that she tan have her seven ehildren

which Marati‘s life is preserved. ' l he play ends with

and then give away her life to him. Nagendra agrees to

liilavardhi's union with his parents. Balanagamma and

she will he hlessed with children. 'l he queen, out of the
desire to have tnore children. plueks the eighth fruit from

the queen's plea. ’l he qtieen gives birth to the seventh
child. Balanagamma. and asks her hushand lot permission
to go. But her hushand refuses and abuses Nagendra.

K arya va rd h i .
Stt'ipt: Sri Malladi Venkata Krishna Sharma.

'l he enraged Nagendra enters the royal palaee and kills
the queen. Alter Bhulakshmi's death. the king marries

Direction: late R.l’ihoja Rain

Mandula Manikyamha l )evi. 'l he new queen tries to
kill Bhulakshmi's children hut the mother's soul prolee ts
thetn. 'l he seven maternal untles oi the children ol the

Dramatisation: R. Nageswara Rao ( Bahji).

