classic, the oral and the aural, the written and the spoken,
and the old and the modern. Here the emphasis is on the
connectivity and the continuity between the various ﬁelds
that ultimately relate human-to-human and human-to—
nature.
The IGNCA manifests its academic work in its
publications, international and national seminars,
conferences, exhibitions and lecture series. The schools
and other education institutions are within the focus of

the outreach programme of the IGNCA.
To fulfill the objectives outlined in the Conceptual Plan
of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts and its
principal aims, its functions are organized through five
divisions that are autonomous in structure but interlocked in programming.
The Kala Nz'dbi Division comprises a Reference Library
of multi—media collections, which includes printed books,
slides, microﬁlms, photographs and audio—visual material,
a conservation laboratory, a multi-media unit and the
Cultural Archives.

The Kala Kay/m Division undertakes fundamental
research and investigates the intellectual traditions in
their dimensions of multi—layers and multi-disciplines.
As a research and publication division, it endeavours to
place the arts within the integral framework of a cultural
system, combining the textual with the oral, the visual

with the aural, and theory with practice.
The jaizapada Sampada Division complements the
programmes of Kala Kos/aa. Its focus shifts from the
text to the context of the rich variegated heritage of the
rural and the small scale societies. Its activities focus on
the lifestyle study programmes comprising ofthe Loka
Pammpam, which revolves around a community, and the
[Cr/13ml Sampada, which revolves round a region.
The Kala Dam/Jana Division provides a forum for interdisciplinary seminars, exhibitions and performances on
uniﬁed themes and concepts. Baljagzzt, the programme
for children, comes under this division’s activities.
The Cultural Informatics Laboratory (CIL) acts as a

focal point for digitization of rare manuscripts, books,
photographs, slides and audio-video collection not only
of IGNCA but also the other organizations working in
the Department of Culture.
The Sutmd/mm Division provides administrative,
managerial and organizational support and services to all
the other Divisions.

