B AN G LA D E S H
Name of the Group

:

Rangpur Shishu Nattya Kendro

Address

:

H.No. 59, Road 78, Block H, Banani (Dhaka)

Title of Play

:

“Kishore Khudiram”

Language

:

Bangladeshi

Author

:

Mr. Abdul Hal Durbar

Director

:

Mr. Razzak Murad

Synopsis
Mahatma Gandhi (Bapuji), the chief of Ahingshaw Biplob against the British rulers in
India tried his best to stop the English fighting force who oppressed the peace loving Indians.
But they turned a deaf ear to Bapuji's call for peace. They cracked down severely on the
actions of the Freedom-loving people of India. Yet, the followers of Gandhiji launched campaign
for establishing social and political rights. Thus Ahingshaw Revolution (Swadeshi Movement)
spreaded through all over India. But new bloods and young patriots of India, specially of Greater
Bengal, could not rely on Civil Disobedience started by Gandhiji. They planned for Armed
revolution.
ln1908 an underground Militant Nationalist team was formed in Chittagong under the
leadership of Zaminikanta, Monindra Sen and Arnbika Chakkoty. Later on 1911, Rasbihari
Basu took the lead of the team and declared in “The Biplobi Dal”. His most faithful follower
Master da Surja Sen became the commandant of the Biplobis. They call their movement Militant
and Nationalism : Not terrorism. But the British people termed it Terrorism. In 1918, Surja Sen
formed an Armed-Militant force to fight against the British oppressors. Sudden attacks occurred
upon English officers, Government officers and Quarters. Many were killed and wounded by
the revolutionists in Bengal. British people became furious.
Master da, with the help of Ila Mitra, Binod Bihari, Abdus Sattar and others planned to
loot on the Chittagong Arms- depot of the British force. The final day came on 18th April 1930.
They succeeded.
It is to be red-marked that Surja Sen and other militant Nationalists were inspired when
our teenaged Khudiram Basu of Bengal were hanged to death along with Prafulla Chaki in

Olipur Jail in early 1920.
This Khudiram of Nadia left school when he was only eleven. His playmates Gonesh
Paul, Ullash Dhar, Dornoder Sen, Horokishan (son of a shoe-mender) formed a Kishore Biplobi
Dal in Nadia. Khudiram from Nadia was the team leader. They took shelter in Khudiram's elder
sister's house in a village near the city. Biplobi Rasbihari trained tham. They were engaged to
distribute leaflets and posters among the people. The slogans in the leaflets were : Freedom
First, Freedom Second, Freedom Third—Bande Matararn.
Khudiram was the bravest boy in the team. He took the burden to destroy Governor
Ford. He and his friend Adhirarnwent to Kolkata and threw bombs on ford. But the target was
missed and he was caught redhanded. One of the collaborators of the British people in Kolkata
was Raghubabu. He helped the British police to arrest Khudiram. Afterwards Raghubabu was
punished by the Militant Nationalists but Bengal lost her patriot son, Khudiram. He was trailed
and hanged in Olipur Jail.
Master da Surja Sen was inspired much at the sacrifice of teenaged Khudiram. He
saluted Khudiram's ashes and promised to take revenge. Finally Master da marched on, fought
died a
against the occupation forces, was arrested and hanged. He, like Khudiram and others
Khudiram.
our
brave death. Before death he told like
Hope is hanging over my head. Death is knocking at my door. This is time for Sadhana.
The
My dear brothers and sister: Crush the enemy (British force in India). Fight for Freedom.
doing.
and
up
day of bondage is disappearing and the dawn on freedom is ushered in. Be
Success is sure. Long live revolution.
Bande Ma ta ra m .

4

