G U J A R AT
Name of the Group
Address

Title of Play
Language

:
:
:
:

Children's Theatre
Bhaktidham, 150, Ring Road, Rajkot
“Suspense”
Gujarati

Author

:

Mr. Amulakh Bhatt

Director

:

Mr. Amulakh Bhatt

Synopsis
Student are used to imitate others. In this play Narendra tries to imitate his teacher,
and he falls in trouble. When he tries to come out of it he feels fear and create suspense.
Sanjeev and Narendra are two classmates. Today is Sanjeev's birthday. To
celebrate his birthday sanjeev forms a programme to see the movie and he dressed
himself nicely and he waits eagerly for Narendra who will come with the tickets, before
his teacher Desaisi comes. At this time somebody knocks the door, when Sanjeev
opens the door, he saw that his father is there with accounts book of his business in his
hand. Now his father told him that when your teacher Desaisirwill come, introduce him
with me. Narendra did not come yet. If he become late. Desai sir may come. At this time
telephone rang, Narendra told Sanjeev to come talkies directly, and tickets are book
already. Now sanjeev told Narendra about his situation. After that Narendra comes to
Sanjeev's home wearing a dress and spectacles as Desaisirwears. Ramanikbha father
of Sanjeev asks Narendra some questions regarding education. He answered as he
like but he is fearing. Two friends starts to play the hypocrite as teacher and student. At
that time, somebody knocks the door, they thought that desaisircarne, Narendra hides
himself, when Sanjeev opens the door, it is Meena. Sanjeev's younger sister se returned
from school. She informed him the she met Desai sir in the way and soon sir will come.

Now real tension, arise, as he though some solutions, that time milkrnan comes.
Now there is dispute between two friends. At that time again somebody knocked at the
door. It is Avani, Narendra's sister, in nursing dress, comes to tease him. Now Narendra

disturbed and tried to escape but at this time Desai sir entered and he identify Narendra.
Now tow friends shivering and bow down in reverence to Desai sir. Desai sir teaches
them, “Before imitate other one's presence of mind is required.”

10

