O R | SSA
Name of the Group
Address

:
:

St. Vincent's Convent Sr. Sec. School
Balasore

Title of Play

:

“Supta Agneya”

Language

:

Oriya

Author

:

Mr. Ramakanta Mohanty

[Director

:

Mr. Ramakanta Mohanty

Synopsis
The play 'Supta Agneya' is itself a symbolical and satirical play. The play based
on ultra-modem education system with adoption of defective rules and regulations,
arousing parent's resentment against teachers' punishment, paper valuation, tabulation
of mark sheets etc. The Headmaster of MALLIKASUNI VIDYAPITHA (BINADANDA)

Mr. Jivananada lVlohapatra, a recipient of Governor's award, always prefers the all round
development of mental, physical and spiritual strength of students' participation in sports,
song, debate, dance and drama etc. aiming at glorifying the name and the fame of the
same school.
But the secretary, Mr. Mandaradhar Manasingh does not allow the implementation
of the extracurricular activities in school premises with an evil intention to defane the
Headmaster. As a result, at the preliminary stage it creates a tug of war among them.

Gradually it provokes the parents and the students ending up in a vicious revolt against
the t'ieadmaster. By dint of a treacherous intrigue he manipulates the administration to

bring the transfer order of the ideal Headmaster to harass him only.
To avoid the heinous politics, the Headmaster finally decides to leave the school.
But the students in a combined effort raised their voice to cancel the transfer order and
demand his reinstation.
This development lands the malicious secretary in a fix. With no option left, the

secretary himself is compelled to reinstate the Headmaster in the same school. Like
the eruption of a sleeping volcano, the students create a non-violent hunger strike
demanding the restoration of peace and prosperity in the school. Henceforth, the
playwright genuinely titles the play "SU PTA AGN EYA" which means a dormant volcano,
but it may erupt to destroy everything at any moment.
According to the framework (plot), characters, dialogues and conflicts etc, the
play deserves an extraordinary circumference for its stage performance. Finally the
play approves that the school is like a temple in which the teachers are worshippers
and the students are devotees. Morality has its unforgettable value and punctuality has
its own established status in the school premises in any circumstance.

13

