EXTRACTS FROM THE PREFACE TO TARTUFFE (First Edition - 1669)
This preface was written by Moliére for the first edition of Tartuffe, published in 1669a
few months after the second performance of the play, and more than two years after the
fi rst . )
["Here is a comedy that has created a ruckus, that has been persecuted for long. The
people it portrays have very effectively proved that they are far more powerful in France
than all the others whom I have portrayed until noviTThe nobles, the pretentious, the
cuckolds and the doctors have all suffered amiany at my hands, and have gone through the
motions of laughing with everybody else at themselves.
"But the hypocrites are above raillery. They were shocked first, and found it rather
curious that I should be hardy enough to attack their hypocritical facade, to decry a profession practised by the best people. This is a crime for which they can never forgive me ; they
are armed against my comedy with an awesome furyZZThey have taken great care not to
launch the reprisal through the breach I have made in t eir defences; they are too wise to do
that, and are too fond of life to run the risk of baring their souls.
" In their customary and praiseworthy manner, they have merged their interests with
those of God; and Tartuffe, to them, is the kind of play that offends all piety. From beginning to end , the play is full of abominations and deserves to be consigned to the flames. Its
every syllable is impious. its gestures are criminal. The merest flicker of the eyelid, the
slightest movement of the head, the least movement to left or right seems laden with mys-

teries that they manage to explain to my disadvantage... .."
"If one cares to look at my play in good faith, it would be clear that my intentions are
innocent and that it hardly tends to parody what we ought to revere.

"That, on the contrary, I have taken all the precautions in keeping with the delicacy of
the question. That I have taken the utmost care to see that the character of the hypocrite

is clearly distinguishable from that of the true devotee. Ifor two whole acts, thus,h)repared

“Not for a moment does the spectator have to weigh his character; we know him from
the indications I give him. and from beginning to end there is not a single word or gesture

of his that leaves the spectator in any doubt as to the fact that :1.31311]:.; is evil, none that
does not raise the character of the good man I confront him with .... .."

w

छाई the use of comedy is to correct the vices of men, I do not see why anyone should be
spared. The most beautiful aspects of serious morality are often less powerful than satire;
and nothing alerts most men more than the portrayal of their defects. Vices exposed thus
and held up for general mockery are dealt a severe blow. One can easily withstand
reproof,
but not raillery. One would rather be wicked than ridiculous... ."
८…-

"Let me conclude by quoting what a great prince said about Tartuffe. A week
after the
play had been banned . a play entitled ‘Scaramouche Hermite ’ was produce
d at the court.
While leaving, the King said to the prince, 'I wonder why those
who are scandalised by

Moliére's comedy have n't a word to say about Scaramouche ?’ To which the
prince replied,
‘That is because Scaramouche satirizes heaven and religion, about
which people care nothing. Moliére's play satirizes these very people, and that they
find unbearable. .."

