EXTRACTS FROM THE SECOND PETITION PRESENTED TO LOUIS
XIV IN AUGUST 1667, WHEN THE KING WAS CAMPING AT LILLE.
S i re ,

It is a highly reckless act on my part to importunate a monarch in the midst of his
glorious conquests. But where else, in my present state, would I find the protection that I
seek? And whom can I plead with in my battle against the authority of power if not the very
source of that power and that authority, the just dispenser of absolute orders, the sovereign
judge and master of all things?
My play, Sire , has not found favour yet with Your Majesty. In vain did I produce it under
the title of "The Impostor" and disguise its character as a man of the world. The small hat.
the long locks of hair, the wide collar, the sword, and the lace-lined clothes that I gave him,
the softening and the revising of his character that I carried out in order to ensure that
there was not the lease resemblance to the originals that he portrays, have all come to
naught. Cabals have arisen on the basis of mere speculation. They have managed to surprise
even those who, in every other matter, make it their profession to be above surprise.
No sooner had my play appeared than it was struck down by a power that feels compelled to demand respect. And the only recourse I had in this storm was to say that Your
Majesty, in your generosity, had authorised the production, and therefore that I did not
believe it necessary to seek the permission of others, for only Your Majesty could have
forbidden me.

I do not doubt, Sire , that those whom I depict in my play will employ their own resources
to prevail with Your Majesty, as indeed they have already done, and that they will try to
include in their number many really good people , who because they judge others as they
would judge themselves, are that much more easily deceived. They know how to paint their

intentions in pleasing colours. WK it is rig/tathelriteiesisj’god that
preoccupy them. This they have shown by suffering repeated public performances of plays
that attack piety and religion, things that seem to exercise their minds less than my play,

which attacks these very people and satirizes them.

They cannot forgive me for unrnaiiingwthem before the world , and they will doubtless

not hesitate to tell Your-Majesty that céi‘héd‘ﬁé’ﬁ'émi'fﬁmgiﬁwure truth,
Sire, is that all of Paris is only scandalised by the banon myplay, thatTthTe more scrupulous
have in fact found it an educative experience, and there is not a little surprise that those
whose probity is well-known should so defer to those who ought to inspire horror and who
are opposed to true piety.

I respectfully await the decree that Your Majesty may deign to pronounce on this subject. It is certain, however, Sire, that should the Tartuffes of the world gain the upper hand,
I will never again write a play; they will persecute more than ever before and will twist the
most innocent words I pen.
May your generosity offer me protection from their venomous rage ; and may I have the
privilege, on Your Majesty's return from a glorious campaign, of alleviating your fatigue, of
giving innocent pleasure and of making the Monarch, who makes all of Europe tremble ,
laugh.
(
i

I

A

नं, «UM I“ प"- `रै
'८45९2
Mid/w
,

'

त्रि ( a ,C

L'

q» we दृ l”

1” झ

