IN SEARCH OF MOLIERE'S STYLE
precise action.
The most remarkable feature of the structure of 'I‘artuffe is its rich and
from the
The fact that the play is replete with ideas and subtle intentions, does not detract
much
very
is
element
fact that it also bubbles over with movement and that the spectacular
farces.
present. Tartuffe, in that respect, is no different from any of Moliere's outright
From acting
Molie re was first and foremost an actor, and he never lost sight of that fact.

to infer
he graduated to directing and producing, and only later to writing. It is reasonable
that even as a playwright his first concern was the dramatic possibilities that his text could
offer to the actor. It is true that this may have been due to the fact that Moliere often
assumed important roles in his plays, especially the most comic parts. (In Tartuffe, for
instance , he played Orgon.) But Moliére brought the same care to bear on the parts of the
rest of the troupe as well.
We have it on the authority of reliable sources of that time that the action in various
interpretations of Moliére's plays was highly animated. That the acrobatics, the gesticulation and the mimicry, which Moliére probably retained from the popular farces he saw as a
child, were fully utilised in his productions. This was also a possible effect of his contact
with the Italians, with whom he shared theatres. Moliere's style, then, was not regimented.
nor did it pretend to be noble.
It was based essentially on exaggerated movement, on wildly imaginative postures and
positions. Contemporaries of Moliere talk of his “grimaces" and his “con‘t‘ortions" and his

"burlesque, antics". Moliere himself. in one of the sketches that form part of Critique de
I'Ecole des Femmes, describes his style thus : "It is true that he breathes hard and that he
loves it, that he knows how to inflate his body and make his face puffy. "
The influence of the commedia dell'arte on Moliére was absolutely capital. The very fact
that so many characters with Italian names appear in his plays bears proof of this. The
stock character, Sganarelle, to cite but one example, probably owes a lot to the Polichinelles
of the commedia dell'arte, and was in fact the role Moliere himself played.
Through all this, a style peculiar to Moliére evolved, with its own characteristics, a style
that soon captivated Paris and the court of Louis XIV For over three hundred years since
then, writers, actors and directors, all have drawn from the immense ocean that is Moliere's
style. Today, many tend to dismiss this style as cliché ridden. Perhaps we need to remind
them that this style was an integral part of a theatre which attacked the “vices of men . "

The search for Moliere’s style begins then in the analysis of the directions of the author,
in the context of the situations and in relation to the characters.

The structure of the action in Tartuffe is well defined. The accent is on speed and on
movement. One would think that characters like Pernelle, Orgon and Dorine have been
created only to add to the animation. Mme. Pernelle's role in fact has often been played by
a man, to add to the vehemence and violence of the character.

From the very outset, the movements are feverish - a stock ploy of comedy. Everybody in
५.

गृ.

में

१

,
V

'

‘

३

की'५ध्या

