Tartuffe seems to be in a hurry. We need only consider Orgon to understand this. There is
a natural exuberance in the man, an impetuosity that gives the feeling of an eternal restless-

ne ss .
In our quest for this style, and in order to highlight it. we have attempted to stretch the

comic potential of the play to the extreme limit. This, of course. has not been our sole
objective. We have . it is true, taken some liberties in our interpretations. Some characters
have been projected in a manner that is almost certain to inspire the criticism that it goes

against the spirit of the play.

But let us bear in mind the fact that this is not the seventeenth century, and that Moliére
would no longer need to expound his philosophy in the repetitive and monotonous voice of
Cleante. Cleante, as Moliere's preface to Tartuffe amply indicates, has been created for
certain concrete historical reasons. The sheer length of this man’s speeches borders on
aggression, however rational they may be.
The very structure of the play highlights one cardinal feature of its characters - violence.
Even amongst those whom one can loosely describe as “good”, there is an obvious aggresivity.
Dorine defines her nature by her constant opposition. Only his impotence saves Damis from
being a total ruffian. Orgon can assert his status as head of the family only by tyrannising
everybody. And Tartuffe overwhelms us by the single-mindedness with which he humiliates

Orgon and his family]
Though Tartuffe fascinates us. like a serpent poised to strike, we do not wish to either
meet him or to shelter him. We suffer his evil charm . without coming under its spell, unlike
Orgon. Whom can one blame anyway? Orgon or Tartuffe?
” Can we forgive Orgon for allowing human dignity to plunge to the lowest depths? Can
we forgive Tartuffe for exploiting to the hilt the weaknesses of a neurotic who needs a hero,
champion . in order to tyrannise his family more effectively?
Moliere shows us. in this play rich in action and gesture . that the greatest evils are not
necessarily present only in other people.

/

E जि-रं-य-, LL92}:

v पू-वाम" 3' f («9‘17'7/uzA/A

९

a)

-

’Wl’

‘

