MouEnE’s CONTEMPORARY APPEAL
"To accomplish great deeds," said Montesquieu, "One must not be above men but With
them. " Of all the great names of yesteryear, Moliere’s is one of the few to have Withstood
the ravages of times. We know next to nothing of Homer. The paternity 0f. Sevéml 0f
Shakespeare '3 plays has been questioned. Moliere , however, remains with us. Primarily as a
man -with all the greatness and weaknesses that that term implies. His life speaks for him.
It is his best play.
To the scholarly; Moliere’s work encapsulates the information available in musty historical documents in libraries. To those in the theatre, Moliere is a convenient pedestal for
launching a play - with or without a message. To the actor. a play of Moliere 's is the guarantee of a meaty role and rave reviews. To the spectator, Moliere could be anything from an
enormous yawn to an unexpected, oft renewed , rapture.
Cutting across all socio-cultural barriers, Moliere remains one of the few writers who
are as close as they are familiar to us. We need do no more than consider the increasmg

number of productions of his plays throughout the world to realize this.
It would be futile to talk about his standing in his own country, where he continues to
dwell, in a manner of speaking, in the "Comedie Francaise in the same neighbourhood
where he lived , worked and died. Let us consider, instead , Moliere’s place in our country Is
there a single theatre group in Delhi that has not produced , or attempted to produce, some
play or the other of Moliere's? The National School of Drama's repertory includes almost

all of Moliere's work, in translation or in adaptations. By their depth and richness. these
plays lend themselves to a wide variety of interpretations. without losing a whit of their

appeal

Where Shakespeare set his plays in the milieu of the nobility and the aristocracy, Moliere
consciously preferred to situate his works against the backdrop of the bourgeoisie . or against
that of servants and valets. in order "to correct the vices of men. "

Laughter was his weapon in this mission. "Vices exposed thus, and held up for general
mockery, are dealt a severe blow. One can easily withstand reproof, but not
raillery. One
would rather be wicked than ridiculous. . . "

Thus wrote Moliere in his preface to Tartuffe.
It is hardly surprising, then, that he should pick on the most
widespread, near archetypal, human weaknesses and set them in backgrounds familiar
to us. The miser, the jealous
husband, the cuckold, the coquette. the misanthrope - these
are people we are likely to meet
every day, even if we are unwilling to admit that we could
be any one of them.

Today, it is true, Moliere's plays no longer generate contro
versy. we can scarcely believe
that any contemporary government, however totali
tarian it may be , would ban a production
of Moliere's work.

For Moliére, in an all his representations, is
part of the heritage of us all.

