as The 37ml, Goes
HERE is a simple and true picture of a joint family of
avillage in Bengal, --for that matter of any place,- in
which is seen the typical problems that arise in the dayto-day life as also how a little cloud of misunderstanding
can overcast the brightness of~ a thriving family, though
temporarily.

No sacriﬁce was too much for Jadav in bringing up
and making a man of Madhav since the day he was left
by his step mother to the care of Annapurna, his wife.
The coming of Bindu from a rich family as Madhav’s wife
to their humble home was, therefore, an occasion of great
joy but soon the situation took a turn as the ‘mother’ in
her never got a child to nurse and she became irritating.
By the time it reached the climax, Jadav beget his only

son, Amulya, and once on a dark moment of intense
suffering to Bindu by an attack of hysteria he was to be
the ‘son’ of Bindu, for the tender touch of the child acted
as the medicine to regain her senses.
Then the sunshine of happiness and prosperity
penetrated through the days of darkness with the healthy

growth of Amulya and the satisfactory practice of
Madhav in the court of law. The sufferings of Jadav
bore fruit and with eyes gleaming with new hope for the
future he took counsel of Bindu (for who else could counsel

him) to reclaim a piece of land that he sold out before to
meet the education expenses of Madhav to build a new .
house to pass the rest of his days in comfort.
The news of prosperity ran apace and with a sudden
feeling of brotherly affection in came Elokeshi, the sister
of Jadav and Madhav, to stay in the family with her none
too good a brat, Naren, and none too worthy a hubby,
Priyanath. Then started her well thoughtout plan to
gain favours of Bindu and to have a share of her wealth
to install Naren in the place ofAmulya but she got a hard
kick to, lick her own wounds. However, she succeded in
sowing a seed of discord in the family and Bindu Was
forced ultimately to move to the new house with her but
without Amulya, Jadav or Annapurna. The “Entrance to
the New House” was celebrated but it had no meaning to
Bindu for had her ‘son’, Amulya, or Jadav come है If
Annapurna took charge of the store at the last moment, did
not she return home without touching even a morsel of food
of her housel—No, it could not be a celebration. ५- She
fainted and took to bed. She refused food or medicine
but only longed for Amulya.
>
( Continued on page 6. )

