About the play . 'I‘ASER DES
H
Over the body of 3 Chicken lying dormant inside an
egg, there is the clear trace of Wings that lie meaningless

Within the 699. there is the staunch protest of the presen :e
of wings. Such a determined signal of the wingS- yet to
be matured makes it clear that the name of a bird is fulfilled
in liberal flying in that invisible and unshackled truth that

can have its winged freedom outside the arena of an egg.
Likewise the eternal human curiosity gives evidence for
total truth.
There we can feel the undertone of freedom
from i individuality, and there only a man is world—centric.
It is no freedom from darkdom while a man goes far
away from home. Darkness is wiped away when the doors
are open. Likewise there is no freedom if a man barss his
family life
.. ....true freedom lies in severing the bondage
of prejudice, in locking into the original spirit of truth brea-

में
हूँ
i

king the surface and in staying true within the manotone of
the shell we are trust into,
.. . ....The world itself is joy incarnate whose true
essence withstands every barrier on its way,

And that is

called freedom—not of distack or disinterest, but of love.
not of giving away but of entanglement, not the freedom
towards doom but the emancipation of widespread expression.

बाठेमृक्तद्म कशा 0

mm? (मम

णिभत मत्था ca आस्ति खाना ज्यादह, खाब were दृछ्येटछ आहें खानांब
वृठमां । शिब वैश्या कौददृन दृमहेंणामांद्ग cams-1213613 l (मशान ants
Btata प्याक्रिनिख दृष्टाडिक्शा l प्टीहै ष्णर्थाडेनक्त सामाद्ग wrap खानिटय त्सा-

णिगृयद्ग तांहेंटद्ग मटखाव्र ca नूर्षखा, आख्या खाब atria? मृशअंछाक्र ca? भूख' गदला
मख्याबहें थाथिब मार्थदष्ठा l दृखघम्पि भावृटवद्ग द्विखट्ठखिब ca तृठेण्डस्वाच्चि उन्हें
यांबूटबव्र 'नूमृनिटछाब्र माथा दृश्य l स्नाहेथास्महै star-9a कबि जाव «Feasts
त्राउड्ड स्याल भूछि' i दृमहैथाटबहै दृग (ले२थ६2'पूर्म२, ।।
शब cat? शिब स्वाब दूब cam याष्टसाटददृहै प्याक्रकांद्ग भूलि यात्व ना ।
घटद्गब्र wast भूत्वा ctr-eat? ज़क्रकांव्र त्याठन i द्रट्यबि मश्माडा खात्मा ज्जाहें भूलि

क्या l "“ “ ”"नस्काटद्गद्ग दक्रब काखिंटव्र, या स्वाहि 'क्तरंदृबदृहै मजा क़द्रुब mt
त्माचा, बाब मत्था आई ma? यस्या mat ata थाकाहँ धूलि l
.
"°‘ " ” दिवं प्यानन्मक्ला I

णामनंटक़ Ema? cwaa ज्याबि Casi; जाब . ३

दादा सिख चाबटद बा । (it? दृखा भूलि I ८मठे बूछि रेंदतात्माव्र बब. caraa l सू
ज्यात्माद्ग ना, दृयास्थ्यब i ब्तटद्यब्र aa, datma भूलि l I

८-द्गदीक्कनाश

