ATHA MANUS JAGAN HNA
Insan Abhi Zinda Ha/ is an impassioned plea against armament and
war and an indictment of the self-appointed civilized races tryingﬁto
subjugate the so-called underdeveloped people by the force of arms.
The ac1ion of the play takes place on an isolated island where ﬁve
arrnyrnen suddenly ﬁnd themselves after a boat disaster. Considering
the local inhabitants, who have their own language, culture and way

of life as savages, the strangers, particularly the captain, attempt to
terrorize them into submission by their superior ﬁre power. Another

level of conﬂict develops when Arnphy, one of the ﬁve and doctor
pleads for a friendly and peaceful approach to the local people. The
consequences are tragic not only for the islanders but also for the
intruders.
Prabhakar Laxman Mayekar has been contributing stories to ‘Satyakatha' monthly magazine. His collection of stories ‘Masiha' was
awarded a prize by the Government of Maharashtra.

A number of One Act plays written by him have won several awards.
His full length plays ‘Atha Manus Jagan Hna' and ‘Ma as Saabreen’
won the First and Second prizes respectively of Maharashtra State
(in 1984-85 and 1983-84). He has written two new plays ‘Aranyadaha‘
and ‘Aadhant ltihas’ during the current year both of which were
staged in this year's State competition. Another new play ‘Agnipankh'
(with Dr. Shree Ram Lagoo and Suhash Joshi) opened on March 7th,
1986 in Bombay.
Kumar Sohoni is an ex-alumnus of the National School of Drama and

was awarded the Central Scholarship for Drarnatics in 1976-79.

He has been directing plays both in Marathi and Hindi, (nearly 35 full
length plays and 25 One Act plays). He has also been acting and
directing plays. for amateur and professional theatre. Besides these
plays he has directed and acted in three Tamashas: ‘Kunacha Kunala
Mezh Nahin‘, ‘Bina Bijache Jharh' and ‘Jalyat Gavalaye Masa'.
He is a recipient of many state level prizes in direction, Acting and
Set Design.

He has just directed ‘Agnipankh' (with Dr. Shree Ram Lagoo and
Suhash Joshi) for Rangyatri theatre group in Bombay.

इंसान अभी निन्दा है

