A Note on the Play
Out of a dozen and a half of original operas and musicals I have written during my
theatre career, I have only chosen one foreign playwright for moulding two of his playsFederrco Garcia Lorca.
.

I Lorca always attracted me for his passionate approach to human relationships.

Imagination is fresh and rich. His flesh and blood characters become monumental.

His

lntro-

duction of mysterious and fantastic characters carrying the theme forward is so logical.
Terseness of his expressions is meticulous. Not a word is wasted. Not one more word
seems to be required.

What logical sequences of events leads the characters to their fate

among songs 8 premonitions ? The human fatality comes alive with such power and
Vitality.

Theatre of song and rhythm having been my very special field, integration of

poetry and drama struck me the most.

His plays are hot blooded. …

l deliberately chose

Punjabi as the most suitable language for expression of his thoughts.

Yerrna, another of hls plays which we did before, was'alr'nOst a translation. To put
Lorca's ideas in Blood Wedding in my mother tongue in an .gdapYé'fib‘ﬁ was very exciting
and challenging. I wanted to give it a home with believable surroundings and convincing characters. I chose foot - hills of undivided Punjab and two farming clans
which could possibly go through the traumatic experiences which are inherent in the
play.
This is the land of Heer Ranjha, Shohni Mahiwal etc. For a wedding
so much blood flows I And how the mother earth drinks it - as if always thirsty
for more and more. What causes this blood shed? The family feuds. Passionate relationship
between man and woman.

and revenge
clans. Two
ction. Only
of stone or

Jealousies. Lust for

land

or

possessions.

Superiority

! Small things get magnified thousand fold. Be it two individuals or two
states. Two nations The world is torn asunder and is on the brink of destruif the weapons of destruction had not been invented. A little knife. Be it
iron, swords, pistols. Bombs. Nuclear Bombs—symbols of developing

civilization, Destiny of so many would have been different if these weapons of destruction had not been there. The play has a relevance nearer home in Punjab, Assam and on

a wider scale.

The futility"and meaninglessness of violence !

That is what struck me the

most besides the play's otherfmagnetic qualities.

The Moon in Blood Weddlng as a medium of murder and Death; the ultimate
divouring force, fascinated me.

Yama in our

mythology is a grotesque character.

Here

in Lorca’s play it is a woman laying the trap and begging the Moon to light up the valley
so that the escape of the lovers is barred.
My first contact with Moon in the play completely shocked me.

Moon wanting

so soothing and
blood for warmth : Not done. The Moon has always been considered
Moon is considered
romantic. Later I discovered that according to Spanish folk lore the

