to be the Godess Kali, a symbol of destruction.

Don’t murders, robberies, rapes take

place in the cover of the night, under the very shadow of the Moon? Convincing argument
even if crimes have started taking place in broad day light. Moon is not a life giving

force. It is cold and is dependent on the Sun for its light. Tonight it is blood thirsty.
totally different role of the Moon. Anything new is worth exploring.
Every role in this play is challenging and tests the actor’s metal.

A

Particularly

Madanbala Sindhu, a singer with a golden voice, appears in a new role and discovers
another facet of hers. It is a demand that surpasses all earlier challenges for the songstress.

Besides her a bunch of new actresses and actors have had an opportunity to discover their talent abilities,so different from the requirement for their earlier performances.

l have introduced some characters which are not there in the original play like
Shama's friends to give a local colour; the Sehre-wali who brings the sehra on the eve of
the wedding.

A faqir that speaks the hearts of the tormented spuls.

Some customs

have been introduced that speak of the surroundings and the clans - like the coming of
the wedding processions, its challenging posture that it could take the girl by force if girl's
parents raised any objection.
Music in this play is totally different. This time it is to heighten the tragedy which
is slowly building up. These are songs of doom and premonition which mock at the

individual which is a pawn in the hand of so many outside forces. Many of the lyrics I
composed are based on the poetry in the original play. New characters are given original
songs. A couple of couplets by Shah Hussain have been fitted in.

Their tunes smell of

Punjabi folk but have a different texture.

The last point I want to make is about the end of the play where a different dimension has been attempted. It is significant that in the last scene there are no men left.
Only women to mourn their dead. What could be more tragic? The play is a powerful
indictment against violence— its utter futility and meaninglessness.

—Sheila Bhatia

