H l L J AT R A
HilJatra, according to current terminological usage

would be understood as a pilgrimage to the hills. But
contrary to this, it means a pilgrimage through muddy
soil, which could be slippery, marshy or difficult to
Hil-Jatra, as it is performed today in
wade through.
ted
the territory of Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, situa

on the borders of Nepal 8 Tibet is a ritualistic festival,
which was gifted to Kumaon by the king of Nepal about
two centuries ago. The festival related to agriculture. All
the characters appearing in this play wear masks represen-

ting various tasks connected with cultivation, as also the
flora Er fauna : the total environment of the region.
Performed at the end of rainy season in an open field, it
brings into focus the aspiration Of the people of Uttara-

khand for a harmonious exlstence. The entire function
lasts about three hours, with Gaura Er Maheshwar (Parvati.
Er Shiva) as its presiding deities. The dominant character
is ealled the “Lakhiya Bhoot", who is supposed to be the '

incarnation of Vir Bhadra, the Chief “G-ana" (warrior) of

Shiva, created by him to destroy Daksha Prajapati, who
‘sulted him, because of which Sati (his wife 8 Prajapati’s
aughter) irnrnolated herself in the sacrificial fire.
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra has made an effort to adapt
Hil Jatra to conternprary stage, not merely as a new

formalistic gimmick but to high light the current aspirations
' of the hill people to save their precious mountains, forests
8 their “bleeding" ,habitat, from the rapacious loot of the
Establishment, which, if not put a stop to, might soon lead
to their total decimation, disfigurement and destruction.

ln Vanya, the leading female character of this play
one may find an echo of the now famous “Chipco”
movement, famous for the heroic rcle played by the
women of the hills in protecting their forests. Today this
need has assumed universal dimensions, acquiring an
urgency which is being felt not only in the hills but all the

world over.
For easier communication, the verses 8 songs in the

play have been written in Hindi.

Music, mainly traditional,

has been extended and expended to meet the needs of the

situations occuring in the play.

