SOUTH ZONE THEATRE FESTIVAL - 1985

The South Zone Theatre Festival (Natya Sarnaroh 198
forms part of the programme 'Scheme for assistance to You
Theatre Workers’ envisaged and launched by the Sangeet Nat
Akademi, New Delhi. The programme is operated on the ba 5
of State-wise divisions of the country into four zones.
The broad objective of the programme is to support and
sustain the creative efforts and energies of young enterprising
theatre workers with a view to helping the experimental segment
of the theatre activities. This was sought to be achieved by
encouraging young directorsto take up experimental productions

which seek inspiration in the traditional/folk theatre forms, and
thus through a process of artistic cross-fertilisation with modern
sensibilities help contemporary theatre assimilate the heritage of
the past. There is ample evidence to indicate the existence of
such theatre activity involving serious effort by many theatre
workers, both established and not so established.

But the lack,

however, of adequate resources to support such work-being primarily of an experimental nature involving high financial and
artistic risks-makes it expedient that this potential and fruitful
activity should receive sustenances on a continuing basis.
Competent and experienced individual theatre directors and their
groups are identified and those selected are offered substantial
financial assistance to cover the cost of the productions.

The South Zone Festival will enable the theatre lovers of
Kerala in general and Ernakulam in particular to see a body of
new experimental work originating under a common programme

in different language areas of the country’viz.

Andhra Pradesh,

Kanataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and hold discussions on them

as well. Such an exposure will be a fascinating experience for
many, but for the more serious segment of the audience, the
Theatre Festival will hopefully help in crystalising some of these
thoughts on styles of theatre which are indigenous in character

and firmly rooted in the Indian soil, both in

inspiration and

execution.

The Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akaderni has great pleasure in
getting associated with such a venture and in hosting the South
Zone Theatre Festival-85 which will help to promote the national
cultural unity.

