December 9th 1985
VELLIYAZHCHA a play in Malayalam
Presented by: NATYAGRUHAM, Trivandrum
Written and directed by: R. NarendraPrasad

SY N O PS l S
The play ‘Velliyazhcha’ (which means Friday) is based on a
popular myth that has prevailed in some parts of Kerala about
the devil who impersonated as a priest and worked in a village
church. The play seeks to develop its consequences on the
spiritual and material planes of life in the parish. The spectator
is carried through various phases of Kerala history from the
time of slavery and tribal life to the consumer culture of our

time. The main character is the devil priest. A number of
characters from various conditions of life come under his influence. The story takes turn as the devil—priest hears an oracle

about a child to be born who will destory him one day. The
mythical motifs of Krishna and Jesus Christ are woven into the
structure of the play. The tribal woman carrying her eighth
child tries to escape from the clutches of the devil who was
already killed every male child born in the parish.
Neverthless,

something secretive is happening in the woods and the play fuses
the image of an organised force of young men against the prominent people who have succumbed to the devil priest,

into the

Jesus Krishna image. Thevan, who was killed by the proud and
the powerful,emerges as the living principle of the human energy
that fights the devil.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The play is in the form of a fable and is written in popular
verse and stylized prose. In the production, the atmosphere of
fable is created by means of elements of puppet theatre. Along
with ‘PAVA KOOTHU’, elements from indigenous performing
arts like ‘Padayani’, ‘Porattu’, ‘Chavittu

Natakam‘, ‘Kathakali‘

etc. are discreetly used. Voice patterns, footwork, rhythms
and melodies from various other forms have also influenced the
structure of the production. Songs, paintings and stage materials

of puppet theatre are sought to be fused to the central theme
and its evolution.
C A ST A ND CREDITS
Puthanachan - M. K. Gopalakrishnan, Andipilla ~ Aliyar, VarkeyM. R. Gopakumar Tharan - Murali, Pavakalikaran - Rajendran,
Three wise men Sasidharan Nair, Sreekumar & Bal Payyannoor,
Chellan-Artist Gopi,Achan~Janardhanan,Chempan Mudi~Haridas.

Daivadoothan~T. P. Raveendran, Sayipu ~ Vijayakumara Varma,
Kili-Anwar. Mariamma~Leela Panicker, Thevi-Girija, Ammachi-

Mavelikara Ponnamma. Stage Design-T. P. Raveendran, Stage
execution~l. Mohandas&S. Balagopal, Costume-Sasi Poojappura.
Lights ~ A. E. Ashraf, K _ Jayakumar, Harmonium ~ S. Raghu.
Percussion-Shanawas, Music-Kaithpram Damodaran Namboodiri
Choreography-Leela Panicker & R. Narendra Prasad. PaintingsD. 3 Lawrence, Directorial Assistance-K. Radhakrishnan.
N A TY A GR U H A M
Natyagruham is a theatre group in Kerala, the activities of
which range from play production to actor’s training. Natyagruham has a poetry theatre wing too

engaged in a creative

The group is actively

understanding of traditional forms and

their relation to the contemporary reality and modernity in art.

