December 10th 1985
LAKSHAPATHIRAJANA KATHE a play in Kannada.
Presented by: SPANDANA, Bangalore.
Written by : Sri. M. S. Nagaraj
Directed by : Srnt. B. Jayashree
SY N O P S lS
King Dharmasekhara banishes his senior Queen for being
childless. The hapless queen concealing her pregnancy accepts
the banishment and lives in penury in a hut outside the city with
the help of the Minister. The boy born to her is named
‘LAKSHAPATHI’ and he grows up to be a strong and virtuous

young man.

In response to the King’s proclamation Lord Shiva

comes down to the earth and asks for ‘six miraculous objects'
to be given to him in six months. The four notorious princes,
sons of the junior queen go out in quest of these objects hoping

to get the Throne for them.
Lakshapathi Raja's identity is revealed and he too sets out
on the back of a divine lame horse in pursuit of these gifts.
Adventures follow and the efforts of the wicked princes to kill
their brother are foiled. At last, Lakshapathi Raja procures these
miraculous objects as also a divine bride who was in possession

of these objects and returns. He becomes the King and the four
brothers are posted as guards of the Kingdom’s frontiers.
DIRECTOR’S NOT E
Jogerata is one of the most popular forms of folk theatre
in northern Karnataka. It looks very simple but it is quite
delicate and has everything a play has to have music, dance,
naration, acting, emotion, entertainment purpose etc.

It is in-

expensive and does not require a perfect stage or auditorium.

It can be performed anywhere; the vicinity of a temple, a plain
ground etc. It is is the synonym for the common man’s theatre.
Having intensively studied this form for years, it is pro~
posed to experiment by taking this form to proscenium and to
adopt all the intricacies of this form.

C AST AND C R EDIT S
1.

Mummela : Rajaram Putturaj, Naganath (Manthri, bud~

ubudike) 2. Hirnmela. Danguradava : Surendra, Jerry Ananthararn 3. Hirnrnela 8: Kulavathl : Pratima 4. Hirnmela &
5. Kulavathi : Pramila 6. Mantri :
Sangamma : B. Jayashree
Srinivas 7. Raja: Sadashiva 8. Shivajangamma: Ashok 9. Soorya
Singa : Ramesh Pandit 10. Chandra Singa 8: Keelu Kudure :
Nagendra 11. Mothi Singa: Dhananjaya 12. Lala Singa : Savanth
13. Lakshapathi Raja : Raghu 14. Danguradava : Sundaresh
16 Shambbavi: Harsh Ananda Raju
15. Lalavathi: Deepa
18. Vyapari : Chandra17. Suryagiribava : Savanthsanapooji
shekar 19. Lighting: Ananda Raju 20. Make-up : Ramakrishna
Kannarpadi 21. Costumes Mohankumar 22. Assistant: G.
V. Malatharnma 23. Stage Designing: M. C. Anand 24. Stage
hand: Lamani 25 Stage Manager : G. V. Shivanand 26. Organiser : T. V. Gurumurthy 27. Lighting Asst : K. S. Sridhar
28. Music : Dr Chandrashekara Kamber & Mudenur Sanganna.
SPAN D AN A
SPANDANA an amateur theatre group started in 1976
comprises basically of talented youth and also people from all
walks of life. It has presented bold and innovative presentations
of plays in Kannada.

