December 12th

1985

KATTIYAKKARAN a play in Tamil
Written by : N Muthuswamy,

Presented by : KOOTHU P~PATTARAI
Directed by : K. S. Rajendran
SYNOPSIS
The ‘People’s Bank’ introduces a scheme of financing
innovative projects of the unemployed. One youth invents a
mask, by wearing which, anyone can assume the face he or she
desires.

The ‘People's Bank’ endorses the project applauding

the invention as pathbreaking, hoping that these masks will
break the monotony of having to live with only one face. They
introduce ‘actress’ masks designed for women in the market
which are in great demand and become popular. The men gift
their wives with masks of their favourite actresses. After
serious study,they introduce‘actor’ masks formen.SaIes multiply.
Husbands buy masks of their favourite actresses for the wives
and wives buy masks of their favourite actors for their husbands
In the meantime, a mask resembling the face of the man who
invented is also released in the market,which the inventor is not

aware of. He comes home wearing a different mask. His wife
is su5picion and he take off his mask to reveal his identity.
But her suspicious grow for she believes that his face also is a
mask.

After much effort,he convinces her that he is in fact her

husband. But this brings to light a new problem The mask of
husband's face has been sold in large numbers. The entire male
community fears that some one else impersonating the husband
in the new mask may ‘lay’ her. They find a solution to this by
putting her under permanent guard to ‘protect' her.

DIR EC TOR ’S NOTE
The play employs the two striking features of theru-k~
koothu, the Kattiyakkaran (Sutradhari) and the screen to bring
out all the complexities of the theme. Like Koothu, it relies on

words, like Koothu, it also transcends.

CAST 8: CREDITS
Kattiyakkaran (1) : Sarnbanbdham Kattiyakkaran (2) : Mani
Character (1): Panneer Selvam Character (2) M Natesh Character
(3) : K Kasi Character (4) : Radhakrishnan Pinpattukkaran (1) :
Jayakumar Avan Palani Aval : C R Vijayalakshmi Soudharnini :
Kalai Rani Thiraikkaran (1) : Palani Thiraikkaran (2) : Kumaran
Pinpattukaran (2) : Kesavan (Dolak) Pinpattukkaran (3) : Appu
Pandithar (Mukha Veena) Pinpattukkaran (4) : Janakiraman
(Harmonium) Pinpattukkaran (5) : Munuswamy (Thalam) Pinp~
attukkaran (6) : Vedhachalam (Vocal) Pinpattukkaran (7) : Sharikar Ram (Mridangam) Stage Manager & Lighting : V Arumugam
Make-up, Costumes & Props : M Natesh Backstage assistance :
Meenakshi Sundaram, Emmarly Koothu movements & music by:
Purisai Kalaimamani KANNAPPA THAMBIRAN

KOOT H U -P-PATT AR A I
KOOTHU-P-PATTARAI : A welcome addition to the Tamil

Theatre groups in Tamil fadth has tried to study and integrate
elements from Theru~KoOthu.

