December 13th 1985
EKALAVYA a play in Kannada
Presented by Jana Natya Mandali, Bangalore.
Directed by : R. Nagesh
SY NO PS lS
The play opens against the background of the battle of
Kurukshetra. The chorus enters and explains to the audience
that the two warring families-Pandavas and Kauravas, are ranged
against each other not for the protection of Dharma Universal
Law, but for power, pelf, and territorial gains.

The story of EKALAVYA, depicted in Mahabharatha has
been reinterpreted in this play as a cry against all wars. Echoes
of modern problems are integrated in the structural pattern so
that the audience is given a new insight into the composition of

the character of the protogenist.
When the war breaks out betWeen Pandavas and Kouravas,

the two princely families contending for earthly power, both try
to gain the support of Ekalavya, the peerless archer.

Already nauseated by the destructive greed of the warring
families,Ekalavya rejects these overtures and at the end of the
play he lets out a fierce war cry. . . .
Against whom?~ against all the destroyers of forests and
the destroyers of nature and mankind at large.

DIR EC TOR ’8 NOTE
Though Ekalavya, new Kannade Play penned by the
resourceful young poet Siddalingaiah,is based on an episode from
the Mahabharatha, I have endeavoured to keep contemporary
world problems at the foreground. The forest dwelling tribal
folk represented and defended by Ekalavya is akin to the thivel
world whereas, in their cunning and tact, Pandavas and Kauravas

stand for the super powers. Their internal bickering notwithstanding. they are united in exploiting and subjugating the
tribals. These undertones are brought out in various scenes of
the play depicting the behaviour of the war~hungry families.
Format wise, this production draws upon the elements of
Kannada Folk Theatre. Elements from the modern theatre are
also employed whrever needed. For example, montage technique
is used to depict in symbolic manner, the ravaging of the tribal
community by urban forces.

JANA ~ N ATY A M A ND A L l

Jana Natya Mandali is the Repertory group of SUTRAD~
HARA,working in the contemporary Theatre Scene at Bangalore,
Karnataka.

