THE LITTLE THEATRE GROUP
B R I E F H I STO R Y
The Little Theatre Group was formed in Lahore in 1945 and moved to New Delhi at
the time of partition. The Group has staged 25 full length plays and ﬁve programmes of one
act plays, in addition to

sponsoring many classical and folk dance recitals and annual visits

of The International Theatre Company, “Shakespeareana”.

In November 1949 the Group organised the ﬁrst All-India Drama Festival and
Conference, and in April 1955 the ﬁrst All-India Theatre Arts Exhibition. In October 1954
the Postal Centenary Exhibition authorities gave the Group the responsibility of organising a
full month of cultural programmes at the Exhibition Theatre and in January 1955 the Group
managed the visit to New Delhi of Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis Casson for the British
Council.
In November 1955 the Group was the only amateur organisation to be included in. the
oﬂicial Ministry of Education cultural programme arranged for the delegates to the UNESCO
General Conference. On the occasion the Group staged an English rendering of the Sanskrit
comedy “Ratnavali”.

In March 1957 the Group won the Delhi Natya Sangha Award for the best production
of the season with “The Teahouse of the August Moon.”

The Group holds regular meetings when plays are read, lectures given, ﬁlms shown or
. other activities held and publishes a monthly news bulletin “Theatre News.” The Group 18 at
present ﬁnalising plans to set up a Theatre Arts Training Centre in the capital.

THE CURRENT S EA SO N

With the opening of a regular Little Theatre Group ofﬁce at 10 Shankar Market
-(near the Connaught Circus Telephone Exchange—Telephone No. 46766) early this season, The
Little Theatre Group embarked on an ambitious programme of regular activities for members.
The programme so far has been as follows :

May 25 Acted reading of the Urdu one-act play “Raks-e-Sharar..”
June 12 Demonstration of Glove and String Puppets and their use in village extension
work.
June 29 “Murder in the Cathedral” (Recorded programme).
July 3 Talk on “Play Production” by Miss Moneeka Misra.
July 17 Talk on “Stage Make-Up” by Mrs. Elspeth Shankland.
July 27 One act play “Through a Glass Darkly.”
July 31 Reception for “ShakeSpeareana.”
August 14 “Beginning to Direct” by Mrs. Chris Rosenfeld.
August 28 “Stage Decor” by Dr. Charles Fabri.
August 31 Programme of Czechoslovak Films.
The Little Theatre Group is currently rehearsing a Hindustani adaptation
of the well

known comedy “THE DIARY OF A SCOUNDREL” which will be staged on Octo
ber 4, 5 & 6
.at the Fine Arts Theatre. Further productions are also being planned.

