THE STORY OF “OUR TOWN”
INthe ﬁrst act the author genially outlines the history of the town, which is Grover’s
Corners, N. H., and. somethlng of the character of its citizens. Then he carries you into
the houses of the Gibbs and Webb families, substantial homes containing substantial
folks. You arrive at breakfast time and are carried through one entire day in the lives
of these good people.

The second act0concerns the love affair between young George Gibbs and little Emily
Webb, and thus culmlnates ma moving wedding scene, which contains all those elements
of poignant sorrow and abundant happiness that make for solemnity and impressiveness.
In the third act we are led to the cemetery on the hill where many of the townspeople

we have come to know so well are patiently and srnilingly awaiting not “judgment” but
greater understanding. Into their midst is led the bride, a little timid at first, a little wishful
to go back to life, to live again with her memories. But she is shown how impossible, how
futlle it IS to return. The past cannot be re-lived. Living people, humans, occupied with their
petty occupations and small thoughts, know little of true joy or happiness. Truth is to be
found only in the future.

P R ० D U CT I ० N NOTE
LONG long before the metaphorical curtain was due to be rung up on this production of “OUR
TOWN” some Amerlcan friends had expressed their surprise at the casting. “So-and-so
.
just couldn’t have exisled in New Hampshire.”

Well, there may be something wrong with me, but I don’t think this play is about New
Hampshire. 1 think it’s about you and me and all of us. Granted it is set in New Hampshire;
but it had to be set somewhere. And even if the New Hampshire “understatement” suits
Thornton Wilder’s theme exquisitely, this theme is so universal and timeless that it could have
been set in almost any small town almost anywhere and at almost any time. And anyway——
what do we, who are staging this play, know of New Hampshire ?
So I set out from the start with the idea that we must be ourselves in this play. I hope
that, in this way, we will bring home the fact that the characters are really ourselves, right
here in New Delhi. Indeed, I nearly went further and put the play on in modern Indian dress.
you
help
may
it
hOpe
I
use
beca
this
ion
ment
I
But
time.
in
that
of
r
bette
ght
thou
I
ily
Luck
who are here tonight in this theatre to understand what I am driving at. And now . . . . . .
On With The Show.

And on behalf of all the members of the cast who, I believe, have

really enjoyed preparing this play, may I offer our earnest hope that you will enjoy it too.
MICHAEL O V E R M A N

