Scenewise synopsis:
Act I:

Scene 01

School

Two groups of children are waiting for their "Auto-Rikshas" (a three

wheeler taxi) to take them home as usual. The two groups have
sweet rivalries over small issues. The scene depicts the routine,
playful life of these children. The sports teacher is a friend of these
kids. He tries to bring some peace when the children fight; A new
corner to the school is accepted in one of the groups. The song at
the end of the scene also tells us about a typical day in their lives.
Scene 02
The two families
In a stage divided in two parts, we get to see the cross sections of
two families: one Hindu and the other Muslim. The scenes depict

the happy and satisfied life of these families.
Scene 03
The School
are engrossed in playing when the news
children
the
usual
As
comes that riots have erupted in the city. It is also learnt that one of
the "Auto Riksha" drivers is killed by violent mob of rival religion.
Terror grips the children. A Hindu father comes to take away his
children, a girl (Rasika) and her brother (Nishat). Rasika asks her

father whether he could also escort their friend (Sameer). Father
agrees without the knowledge that in spite of having a Hindu

sounding name, Sarneer in fact comes from a Muslim family.
Scene 04
Hindu House
The three children and the father come home. Father and mother
are shocked when they come to know that Sarneer is Muslim. The
house is divided whether Sarneer should be given a shelter in the
house. The mother is worried for simple reasons of security. A fanatic
neighbour barges in voicing acidic opinions about Muslim

community. He is in a kiling mood. He inquires about the strange
boy's (Sameer's) identity. The father

and mother save him by faking a distant
relation with him. The neighbour goes
away. Sarneer is totally frightened.
While the father and mother are arguing
about the problem on their hands, he
runs away. Father, in spite of the

protesting mother, runs after him to
protect him;

Scene 05

Muslim house

Sarneer’s mother is impatient and
worried. She is desperately praying that

