Sameer home. Muslim mother thanks him. The Muslim father also
returns home. The Hindu and Muslim father discuss the situation.

Sameer’s elder brother lrfan returns home. He is enraged and in a
violent mood. He declares that he is accompanying his friends in
the bloody battle. The situation becomes tense when he wants to
know who the stranger (Hindu father) is. Muslim father quickly
understands the danger and protects the Hindu father by declaring
that he is his distant brother from Hyderabad. Later, the Hindu father
is escorted through the predominantly Muslim area by the Muslim

father.
A song depicts the plight of all the children who are locked inside
the houses.

Scene 06

The school

The school has reopened. Children discuss about riots. One of the

bigger boys (Shashank) brandishes a knife (in fact a harmless
paper-cutter) and boasts about his acquaintance with some "gangs".

The children are divided over religious issues. Rasika is firm about
her secular belief. A fight ensues when Shagufta, a Muslim girl is
harassed by Shashank. A mini riot takes place. The sports teacher
intervenes. He grabs Shashank while he attacks Sameer with the
knife. The children are dreaded when they watch themselves being
so violent. They sing a song wanting to know what has gone wrong?
Why aren't they friends anymore?

Scene 07

Muslim house

Irfan, the young Muslim is frustrated because he has been sacked
by his employer. lrfan is dead sure that it is nothing but racial
discrimination. Father voices his disapprovement about the way
things are happening in the society. When he narrates the knife
incident at the school, the Muslim mother announces that enough
is enough. She declares that Sameer has to change to a new Urdu

medium religilous school. Sameer protests. lrfan tries to convince
him, but in vain. Sameer is very sad at

the thought of loosing his childhood
fnends.

Scene 08
Hindu house
Mother has decided to change Rasika
and Nishat’s school. They protest. The

fanatic neighbour barges in as usual. He
makes some frightening predictions
about the things to ccrne in future thanks _,
to the Muslims. Mother is frightened. ३"
Father does not believe and laughs away.
The neighbour berates

