The Good Woman of Setzuan
Aesthetics and Politics

In the years between 1926 and 1941 Brecht worked sporadically

on material for the play “The Good Woman of Setzuan”, and
experimented with various versions, before the ﬁnal version,

which was then published later was ready in 1941.
The subtitle of the play classiﬁes it as a ‘parable’, and in the fore-

word to the ﬁrst publication in 1953, Brecht wrote: “The province
Setzuan was used in the play as a symbol of all such places,
where human beings are exploited by other human beings.
Today however, Setzuan is a province, which does not belong
to this category of places any more.”

The action of the play is a form of a narrative and descriptive
experiment, in which the condition of the world is analysed, in
order to determine whether it is a place where human beings
can lead a digniﬁed life. At the very beginning therefore the
framework of the experiment is established. Its focal point is
not man himself—whether he is good or bad—but it is the

world which is the subject of the experiment. This point of
departure is a clear indication of the social context of the play.
If the answer to the question posed is in the negative, then it

implies that it is the world which has to be changed, and not
man. The story of the ‘good woman’ is therefore enacted, in

order to test the world, the reason for this experiment being

the complaints which have reached the gods, that it is impossible to be good and survive in a world of poverty and hardship.
What is the ‘world’ of this play? It is obvious that Brecht does
not talk generally or in an abstract fashion about “the world”,
but that he has a concrete form of society in mind, which forms
the backdrop of the play. In other words: Brecht is talking here

of bourgeoiscapitalist society and is pointing out the need to
radically change this society.
There are various aspects of the play which support this assumption, the most important being the character Shent Te/Shui Ta

and the ﬂyer Sun and the social roles they assume.

As a prostitute, Shen Te is at the beginning of the play on the
lowermost rung of the social ladder. She is herself a commodity

