to be sold. With the present of money that the gods give her,
she is able to climb up two rungs of the ladder. After she has
bought the tobacco—shop, she belongs, sociologically seen, .to
the petty bourgeoisie. Asa business-woman, she is better than
the workers, as we see in the ﬁrst scene. Although she does not
think of herself as belonging to the bourgeoisie, this new role of
hers forces her to conform to the laws of the bourgeoisie. Her

desire to use her new position in order to help her fellow human
beings comes into conﬂict with her business interests. As a

business woman she can only earn proﬁts, if she does not‘ give
things away free; she can maintain her position even within the
petty bourgeoisie only trying to earn more money at all costs.
Her idea of creating a cousin, who looks after her business,

while she herself as a ‘good’ person keeps out of it, only shows
the

necessary consequence

of an

objectively contradictory

situation. Through the portrayal of a ‘split’ person, Brecht
is able to show here the actual splitting up of the bourgeois
individual into a private (moral) half and a public (business)
half.

'

“The split personality is one of Brecht’s favorite dramatic
devices, though he was not even remotely interested in abnormal
psychology. Shen 'I‘e’s schizophrenia can be readily diagnosed

as a social disease of capitalism, the internal contradictions of
which force the individual to adopt two mutually antagonistic
attitudes.” (Dickson, p. 140)

In order to maintain the “good half” however, a person is
forced to let his “bad half” become increasingly dominant,
since it is only possible to help others when a corresponding
ﬁnancial proﬁt has been made. However, the “bad half”
alienates those very people that the “good half” wants to help;
here in the play the family is handed over to the police, Wang
gets a crippled hand, the old people are cheated. The chances of
doing good get narrower, and Shen Te is ﬁnally isolated to such
an extent, that her desire to help others is now limited to her

own personal sphere, more speciﬁcally to herself and her
unborn child. Her public actions are taken over by Shui Ta,
whose ﬁeld of action rapidly extends to a point; where he dominates completely.

The isolation of the “good half” makes the unscrupulous rise
of the petty bourgeois possible: the small business woman

becomes a capitalist. The poor people, who Shen Te at one time

