wanted to help, are now looked at only as cheap labour, who
can guarantee her profits.
The rise of Shen 'I‘e/Shui Ta corresponds to the rise of the ﬂyer
Sun and the degradation of his love. At the beginning of the
play Sun belongs to the unemployed and therefore to the
“Lumpenproletariat". Flying however is not understood only
as a career, it is at the same time a symbol. Shen Te tells Sun’s
mother at one point: “At least one of us should be able to rise
above all this misery.” Flying is also a symbol of technological
progress, a symbol of social progress and advance too, as is

evident from other plays of Brecht as well. Yang Sun however
does not attain any great heights; he only lands up in Shui Ta’s
factory, where from being just a worker he rises to being work
supervisor. The symbol of progress is brought down to the level
of the petty bourgeois, for whom progress does not mean a
qualitative change in the social conditions of the masses, but
merely a personal step up the social ladder.
Since the play is in the nature of an experiment, the ﬁnal scenes

show the results of the experiment. In the last but ﬁnal scene
when the gods appear for the last time in Wang’s, the water
seller’s, dreams, there is a clear indictment of the state of the
world. On all their wanderings, the gods have not been able

to ﬁnd many good people, and those that they did ﬁnd, were
not living a life worthy of humans. The world, as they have
seen for themselves, is full of misery. The morality and goodness that they demand of men seems to be fatal, since they

have seen that good intentions bring people to the edge of
destruction, and good deeds bring on ruin. The verdict falls:

The world as it exists is not a world in which men can live and
yet remain good. Shen Te’s moving monologue at the end,
when she reveals her dual identity to the gods, is a reiteration
of what the gods themselves have seen. These gods however are

not in a position to offer any solutions, and so they retreat
behind the clouds again, leaving Shen Te in exactly the same
position as she was before. With the voluntary retreat of the
gods, the epilogue turns to the spectators, and gives them the
responsibility of observing and conducting the experiment. The
curtains have closed, but all the questions remain unsolved, and

it is upto the people now to ﬁnd the solutions. It would therefore not be correct to search for the ‘message’ of the play in
the text of the play itself. Audiences have seen in Shen 'I‘e’s

tragic dilemma an insoluble existential problem. But the techni-

