ques of alienation used in the play and inherent in the epilogue
are intended to elicit a dialectical response: the audience is
supposed to reject Shen Te’s defeatism and search for ways out

of her tragic situation. The ﬁeld of action is now however
transf'ered from the theatre to the actual social reality. The open

end of the play is the key to this transfer.
The above analysis of “The Good Woman of Setzuan” has
been a conscious attempt to emphasise the political content of
the play. The necessity of emphasizing the political statement
becomes important in the context of an adaptation. Since
Brecht was ﬁrst and foremost a political writer, it is important
to make sure that the speciﬁc political content does not get lost
in the adaptation. Adaptation in the case Of Brecht therefore

means that the play is adapted in such a way as to show the
. relevance of the political content to the Indian socio-economic
situation. A mere transformation of the milieu combined with
the use of elements of Indian theatre is not enough. Very often

the use of elements from the folk theatre tradition for example
carry a dilTerent connotation, which detract from the political
nature of the play. The danger would not arise on the other

hand, if translators and those doing the adaptation themselves
have a political understanding of theatre.

Brecht reception in India cannot be a mere aesthetic reception.
It is necessary to understand and analyse Brecht with reference

. to the Indian situation, in order to demarcate the speciﬁc areas
of convergence and/or divergence. This would form the theoretical background of a political reception, which becomes
necessary, since Brecht was explicitly political in his intentions.
There are many productive impulses which can be gained from .
Brecht in the setting up of a tradition of good political theatre

in India. His politicisation of art, his method of revealing social
contradictions in theatre combined with the political demand
for change and social progress cannot be deemed to be “no

longer relevant”, since it has not yet been put to optimum use.
It is only this kind of a speciﬁc political understanding which
will pave the way for a “situative Brecht reception” (Bhatti)

in India. By proceeding from the speciﬁc Indian context, the
danger of a dogmatic approach to Brecht can be avoided. In
the same way the political approach can hinder a mere aesthetic
reception and ensure that Brecht is not just part of a theatre
fashion. The use of indigenous art forms in the process of adapting Brecht in India is valid so long as these techniques and

