to the carpenter by
goodness to the needy but injustice done
Ramlal, a businessman, her brother.

Scene 4.
speak ill of her.
Though Ramkali helps all needy, still they
in love with her
Shabbir, the rich barber, in the neighbour is
with Raju and
act of kindness. Ramkali herself is in love
a shawl for
everthing seems very romantic to her. She buys
rupees to
Raju. The owner of the shop give her two thousand
hand, hit
help her. Ramkali does not notice Bachans broken
eye witness
by Shabbir. Everyone turns a deaf ear for being the

herself,
to the incident. Ramkali agrees to be the eye witness
police.
to which Bachan denies and goes to report to the
Phoolmati rushes to inform Shabbir.
ining 3,000
Raju’s mother Mrs. Saxena comes to take the rema
rupees from Ramkali to secure Rajus post as pilot.
Scene 5.

and
Phoolmati is working now in Ramkali’s shop. She alerts
warns Ramlal of the coming danger by Raju and Ramkali’s
affair and she tells of Shabbir’s interest in Ramkali.

Raju Saxena comes to the shop. He wants three thousand
love
more. Ramlal comes to know that Raju does not truly

Ramkali. Phoolmati calls Shabbir. While they are talking,
Bachan comes with a policeman. Ramlal refuses outright of
a
being Ramkalis witness. Shabbir and Ramlal agree to have

conversation with Ramkali.
Scene 521.

Ramkali is preparing for her marriage and as she goes out she
meets the old woman. Her husband had fallen ill after giving
the money. But Ramkali had given the money to Raju so she

could not return it.
Scene 6.

It is Ramkali and Raju’s marriage but Mrs. Saxena and Raju
are waiting for Ramlal and the money. Ramkali says that she
and Ramlal cannot come together and refuses to sell the shop.
Raju wanted to get out of this dull life but fails again.
Scene 7.
Ramkali has sold the shop and is packing. Phoolmati advises to
ﬁght tooth and nail instead of giving up. Shabbir gives her a
blank check. Ramkali is also pregnant Her guests rob her of
her tobacco. Ramlal’s entry creates fear among all. He refuses
to sell the shop.

