An experience with the Allanas

It’s too hard to recollect when exactly did I hear the name of
e I
this couple, but certainly certain I was aware of it well befor

had come to National School of Drama. The source should
surely have been the Magazines & Newspapers, of which I had
been a keen reader from my early childhood. Before I had come
here, I had also the privilege of seing the famous production of
theirs “Mahabhoj”. From the time I had entered National

School of Drama, I had found people talking about them on
several occassions. Though surprisingly enough, it was only
when they came to do production with us, I saw them for the

ﬁrst time—it was then and there I fell in love with them.
But it was not for me to meet and talk to them, then. It was to

take some more days to get that privilege. Then came the day—the 18th of Feb. . 1984—1 went to their class for the ﬁrst time.
I talked to them, nothing more but just an introduction. From
that day onwards hardly had been there a day when I had not

the privilege of being with them for a couple of hours or more.
And all those have been simply “Fine” with most excellent
moments of period under mention.
There are lovely people I say, and people are bound to love
them is my opinion. Rarely had I met people in theatre who are
so devoted and hardworking with full stamina, vigour & enthuthiasm. Doing theatre; also this production—had more than
once irked me, made me feel bored and tired but I had rarely
seen a - sign of boredom and tiredness in them. That makes me

feel jealous—an honest confession I would make; but surely
makes me ashamed too simultaneously. I am sure we all had

done lot of injustice to them by not applying ourselves more.
Both of them. I had always found, working for the attainment

of perfectionw-an attitude which one and all; must try to develop
in them. Clarity of thought—is one of the central charcteristic
of their venture to success. Strong sense of Aesthetic and love
for it is one other thing quite remarkable, and to top it all
wisdom of selectiveness———what to retain and what not to, makes
them Allana's of today—~as every body would know them.

And their off time attitude—simply fantastic!
8 AT I S H K A U S H I K

