Moliere and the Comedv
of Manners
ﬁll the comic authors of the second half of the seventeenth
century in Europe fade into insignificance when we turn to JeanBaptiste Poquelin who, under the name of "Moliere", established
himself as one of the greatest masters of the art of comedu that
the world has known. Success came to him late. Moliere was in
his thirtu third uear when his first important work, "Letourdi, ou le
contretemps" (The Blunderer) was written and acted. Up to that
time he had been gaining experience in the plauhouses. His own
companu, L'lllustre Theatre, had been formed in 1643 and since
then had been touring the provinces with a repertory consisting
mainlu of force. Now the future author of "Tartuffe", trained in his
profession of acting, felt himself readu to add to that repertoru
plaus in which his sense of the stage and his wide observation
of life could find free scope.
Moliere's stule in the earlu farces ("The Fluing Doctor") owed
much to the commedia dell arte and had affinities with medieval
farce, but he soon passed from this to "commedia erudita" with
"The lndiscreet Man" and "Lovers' Spite". Toward, the end of
1658, he brought his companu to court and won roual favour with
a repertoire of forces. It was not until the uear 1659, however,
that his individual stule became apparent in "The Hffected
Ladies"-which, in essence was a social comedu with a different
dramatic purpose. The attack on Parisian societu soon had
various ladies of the court protesting violentlu and it was clear
that Moliere had raised a hornet's nest. Undounted bu criticism,
Moliere wrote a couple of uears later, his first trulu great comedu
"The School for Husbands” - in which excesses are ridiculed
wittilu, good sense isenthroned and the golden mean is made
the prize of man's endeavour. Following "The School for
Husbands" came "The School for LUives", in which Moliere made a
notable advance in his comic art using greater freedom and more
liveliness in character delineation.

