G U R IA — G HAR
Winner of the ‘Besf Actress Award 1982-83
From West Bengal Government, C. C. I.
8: Kolabharofi
An Adaptation of HENRIK IBSEN’S, ‘A DOLL’S
HOUSE’.
This play needs no elaboration. It has been rarely
produced in Hindi (adapted or other wise). ‘Guria
— Ghar’, is adapted from ‘A Doll’s House’, following
the total pattern of Sambhu Mitra's ‘Putul Khela’
by Smt. Usha Ganguli. ‘Guria — Ghar’ has been
directed by Smt. Tripti Mitra, the celebrated personality of Indian Theatre movement. The light
direction has been taken by Sri Tapas Sen whose
name also needs no introduction. The set has been
designed by another personality ‘Sangeet Natak
Academy’ award (86-87) winner Sri Khaled Chaud—
hury who is regarded as the doyen of set designing
in Indian Theatre movement.

When we started the rehearsals of ‘Guria—Ghar’
many Theatre—lovers including some very serious
Hindi Group Theatre Workers raised their eyebrows. Why the adaptation of that ‘Nineteenth Century Classic' of Ibsen in 19803 India? A few even
advised us that as one of the Calcutta’ s youngest
theatre groups, we should not proceed with it. We
avoided the debate and silently got down to the
tasks of production. When we were sweating ourselves in the rehearsal room, we were stunned in

Calcutta by at least ten furious, angry procession
with the corpses of teen age housewife-some committing suicid, by falling from roof-tops, some by
burning themselves. The place of such happenings
ranged from the areas inhabited by the rich to the
lower middle class bUStees.
However, with this we do not Want to label ‘Guria—
Ghar’ as a play for so-called women’s lib, or against

male chauvinism. The play ‘Guria—Ghar' we think
will speak for itself. But, as the producer, we do

feel that ‘A Doll's House" it still relevant for
societies throughout the world-from Mathur a or
Monghyr to Moscow even in this last quarter of the

Twentieth Century, till day it has been performed
over 60 times. It has been seen and appreciated
by Hundreds of persons in Bengal. It has also been
staged at Darjeeling Drama Festival, Siliguri Drama
Festival , All lndia police Meet, West Bengal Chief
Mineister’s Drought Relief Fund, Expo ’82, Colleges
& Schools of Calcutta and also in Banaras, Patna,
Nagpur, Delhi, Allahabad etc. and was highly acclaimed by the critics and people.

