P. Appukuttan
Secretary,
Kerala Sangeeta
Nataka Akademy

Kerala Sangeetha Natak Akademi is conducting a women's theatre
workshop. This is a pioneering venture in Kerala. Such a venture has
seldom been attempted even on a national scale.
In the eleven - day workshop, 25 selected fernaie participants will be
given practical and theoretical training. A venue will also be provided
for the get-together of women theatre activists in Kerala. There will
be more than 25 productions staged by prominent troupes directed
by eminent women directors from the various parts of india. Seminars and discussions linking gendre studies and theatre practice and
sharing of experiences by our old time actresses and interface with
experts in the various fields of theatre will also be a part of the workshop. A number books connected with women's theatre will be released. Two exhibitions are also planned.
The workshop aims at stimulating the Malayalam theatre scene in
new directions. Does our theatre apportion a respectable space to
women? The scandals, insults and barbed comments our early actresses had to face are still recounted in tears. There are many who
are ready to act as means of livelihood. But those who are drawn to
theatre as a medium of self-expression are few and far between. Even
those plays which raise women's issues depict women as powerless.
Swear words and innundoes are cramped into the plays making them
extremely weak. Most of our plays become simplistic and one dimensional .
We have in our theatre many women as actresses. But how many do
we have in direction, music, lighting, costume, stage setting etc ..... ..'?
Let us hope that this workshop will help our women theatre activists
in facing the many issues like these more creatively.
Theatre was always instrumental in Kerala and elsewhere in drawing
women from hearth to the life outside in the early decades of this
century. Today a global market culture evaluates man / woman by
his/her body. Both man and woman become an easy victim in the
glittering world of body display. Can we now rekindle our old memories by using theatre once again as a tool of resistance? Women's
theatre workshop is a search in this direction.

S d.
P. Ap p u kuttan

