FlDA
nﬂlB
The play takes it's core from Jean Racine‘s Phaedra
scripted for the most part in powerful Punjabi poetry by Surjit Patar. Fz'da reverberates with echoes
from the legendary saga of Loorza.
Fida‘s unconventioned love for her step-son,
Harman, damns her in her own eyes and she chooses
death as a resolution to her passion. Her husband is
believed to be dead. Hence her maid persuades her
to reveal her love. Her maid tries to free her from
३३
the ovenvhelming sense of guilt, as her relationship with her step-son is determined by her
husband. Rani Fida reveals her love to Harman and is confused by his silence. She then tries the
desperate step of trying to lure him with promises of the throne and land. The maid then returns
with the news that the king is alive. In a state of utter confusion Fida allows the maid to tell her
husband that his son had tried to seduce her. The king curses his son.
Rani Fida pleads for Harman's life and reveals her guilt only to discover that Harman loves another woman Arcia. Fida succumbs to jealousy and keeps quiet. Her silence unleashes a series of
tragic events that led to the final climax.
The play deals with matters of unvention and tradition, transforming the unvoilence of love into
a negative experience. How society and its deep rooted attitudes determine who one should
love and how much .

In the original Greek myth Phaedra is a wicked woman for she had dared to love her step son,
Hippolytus. In the French play Phaedra, Racine absolved her of all the wickedness and created a
new Phaedra, a human being with intense emotions who was destined to love, the implications
of which did not exist in her psychological landscape. In the original myth Phaedra is the daughter of Minos. Her younger sister is married to Theseus. When Theseus abandons her, Phaedra
marries him. Then she falls in love with Hippolytus, her step-son. When he discards her love, she
commits suicide, leaving a note that he tried to seduce her.

Punjabi
60 [Ins Patar
Surjtth
B. V. Karanth
Ravinder Happy

DirCCtOY'S N0“?
as a blend
I see Fida
_ ts which
_ of five elemen
_
'
constitute a being With a capaeity to destroy
as well as to create. . .. I did not want men on
the stage of this production. When you are

Ramanj” Kaur' खात्मा Grewal' Paya'

in love, you create an illusion of the person

8:233:23]. ManChaiilgzlam Man Singh

you love. Using this as a premise, the script

Language
n
Duratio
Script
Music
Light Design

:
::
:
:

Cast

was redrafted........... ..

ChOWthY
Presented by

: THE COMPANY,
Chandigarh

from an interview with Rathi A. Menon

Address
House No. 9, Sector - 4
Chandigarh - 160001
15

