Avvai

(ख्यात्मारुयु
Based on the legendary Tamil poet Avvaiyar of the
Sangam period.
Begins with the playful activities of young men and
women and their learning the modes of living. The
old Awai and the young vivacious Avvai exchange
notes about their poems and the play within play
leads us on to the historical events of poet Avvai visiting the court of King Adhiyaman, telling him stories about the landscapes and Avvai's diplomatic visit
to the King Thondiman and cleverly making him withdraw from invading Adhiya
man ........ ..
Director's Note

It is no wonder that a youthful, sensuous image of a woman fearless in expressing her emotions
can be a threat to patriarchal world View. The face of the chauvinistic world which portrayed
Avvai as an old lady stands exposed in its ugliest form.
Since the play is based on the bardic tradition it links itself to the lives of the contemporary
a rt ists .

The five eco-zones of Kurinji, Mullai, Marudam, Neithal and Palai and the attendant patterns of

life style prescribed for each which are rooted in Tamil tradition form the basis of the female
world in this play. On stage, these aspects are presented through colours and music. Traditional
forms and their present modes of performance have helped to create that ambiance.
Lierary world has always assigned a marginal space to female voice or has treated it as a different
genre altogether. Avvai has helped us reLanguage
: Tamil
trace the literacy path of female writing.
Duration
Script
Music

Costume and

rnakeup
Set Design

90 mts.
lnquiiab
V
Palani, Chandaran

Playwright's Note

Paramasivam,
Kannan Kumar, Saron
३
M a rudhu

The play Avvai sheds the garb of old age
imposed on the ancient poet. It speaks loud
and clear the female voice which resists restrictions. Old age is a natural phenomenon,
it has its own beauty. But, since the male
world sees it as its gospel, that garb is exposed.

Mithran Devanesen

Cast
Amaithi Arasur, Archana, Barrithagirathi
Naryanan, Parthiba Raja, Ponni, Selvarn

Stanley, Tirupathi Venkatesan
: A. Mangai (V. Padma)
Direction

Presented by

The play also attempts to reveal the
prespectives of life in Sangam age. Sangam
literature which is less puranic and closer to
realities of life has not been explored
enough. It will be a great tool to help ret

VOICINQ SILENCE
Chennai

A dd re ss

6 - A Veera Samy Road

Kurinjinaga r
Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096
21

