Ek Parikatha Aur...
)...
63o; @(ﬁﬂiﬂcﬂamquo, o.ll6)(TT
ry Tale, And.. . . ) written
'E/e Parr Kat/9a Aur'. . . (A Fai
in an autobiographical
by Dr. Vinita Agraval framed
es of man-woman relastyle touches the deepest cor
tionships .
tains material
Amma's Pandorabox con
wrapping cloth
grandmother's veil, grand mother's
father's coat
- sheet hemmed with a border, grand
the faded,
button, bunch of keys with no locks and
create L
family photo graphes. Each of these objects
connecting the past with the present. As the
its own individual significances symbols and images
new meanings and new values. The herine
play gradually develops there prize possessions assume
shout slogans. Instead she brings
is not the woman who would blow her horn in protest or
she preserves them, she accepts
together the broken shards and fragmented pieces of life and as
our own sky by ourthem, takes them in the foils of her own life. She says, "We have to make
ulous acts,
selves; all the wrong decisions taken, all the right and wrong relations, all the unscrup
this
the heaps of idly passed moments, irrecoverable posses all the things will go in the making of
sky. It will really be a bright sky, a true story of our own lives. Let us make it today, even now, a
whole perfect sky.“

Vibha Mishra
M. A. in Hindi literature from Lucknow University.

In 1982, joined Rangrnandal repertory of Bharat Bhavan, Bhopal. Actively engaged as an actress,
director in theatre and television and especially worked for children. Conducted theatre workshops with deafand dumb children in Lucknow and Bhopal. Worked for 8.0.8. Children Village

‘l‘ Bhopal arid Mauritius. DifﬁCtEd 50 plays for children including Le Petz't Prince Experience in
films and television. : Directed Adbuut Bag/9 for children, directed and produced telef'ilm Gbar,
LDangLiage

है Hindi "

teleﬁlm Abbi Nu [loga Mem Am. Directed

ट्ठटेंम्हाआ
Lights 8,

_ '
1730, शाकिर A
a. grawa' . .
' ''

Sets Design

: Bhu e d -

and produced a serial, A Creative Legend of
India TV andjago sz'r E13 Bar. Awarded National School of Drama Fellowship. Awarded
senior fellowship of Government of India,
Dﬁpartment ofCulture. Availed French Government fellowship (theatre) A cultural tour
to Germany, Switzerland, London and

Costumes &

से' n त्व sahu .

: Amarsmgh
grops
tage Manager : Sudesh
में रं में
३
Cast .
ठेहैफुटुंहैऊँस्तागृतू पिंड़ादूट्वेंषाख्याणासान्धीबिस्तिगूँस्ति प
Presented by

-

lbha Mrsra

.

: RANGMANDAL, Bhopal
Address

France. Worked with Fritz Ben Witz, john
Clark, Eugino Barba, Peter Brook, John Mar-

tin, B. V. Karanth, B. M. Shah, Abhimayu

E‘133/2.Profess or" s Colony,
३
Bhopal

Urmuth, Joy Michal,

Ph : 91 ~755-531393

Working for Education through Theatre in

Jawahar Navodaya School from 199426

