:r

Beauty Parlour
३३ A

ध्याहैंदुहुँ! ancient}
The play begin with the report of a news item rendered in the male voice.
In a beauty parlour in Delhi a woman suddenly became violent and destroyed many things there including a mirror. She ran down into the streets and
was later arrested by the police. She was then almost naked with a wound in her left breast and on
her right hand there was blood. Doctor confirmed
that the woman was in a state of hallucination. When
this news is being reported in her parlour, the beautician starts arranging things while addressing
the audience. The story of the suicide attempt by Anitha in the beauty parlour thus unravels itself
through her words. All this while the audience witnesses the stages through which a mannequin
is subjected to various transformations.
Director's Note

This play probes into the complexities of the various power structures behind the numerous
tranformations a woman's body is subjected to in order to correspond to a concept of beauty
created by family, society and other institutions.

M. Sajitha
M. A. in Theatre Arts from Rabindra Bharathi University, Calcutta.
and search
Junior fellowship from Department of Culture for research in decolonization in acting
nce
confere
women
for new actors' training based on 'Koodiyattom'. Participated in international
programmes.
at Beijing as a theatre person. Associated with documentaries connected with literacy
theatre for Doordarsan
Produced a documentary on the experiences of actresses in Malayalam
puram.
Organiser of women's theatre group 'Abhinetri', ’I‘hiruvanth

K. S. Sreenath
Thrissur. M. A. in Theatre (Directionj
Diploma in Journalism. Degree from School of Drama,
i
eted
from Rabindra Bharathy University, Calcutta. Compl

M. Phil in Theatre from Mahatma Gandh

rtment of Culture for research project
University Kottayam. Junior Fellowship form the Depa
('De-Colonization in theatre with special ref,
erence to Post-colonial culture and
- .
I Malayalam
Language

Duration
Signor)
Presented by,

Address

: 30 rm.- f .
"
हुंहुँहुँहँहुँक्वेंटुहुँ
:

Kooadiyattom').Won KumarGandharvaNational Award, Rajani Prova Puraskar, Nirod

_

am
K- 3- sreen
PERIMENTAL

: DELHI EX

THEATRE New Delhi

k

3:3 bilge-“58b 6
Tel : 6562765 (R)

29

Baran Memorial and Rabindra Medal. Produced The Island, Macbeth, Oedipus Rex,
Asbad Ka E/e Din, Sneba Dootan, Rafa, Etbo
Cbz'ra/eadzyocba/eal andMaya Seetban/eam
Wrote Prauasz'leallude Mann u and

