God Has Changed His Name
memo (porno t2an moooknikzilteogtrng
an
Based on the doctoral dissertation 'Nation, Wom
dasi
Deva
ofthe
Representation : The Sutured History
and her Dance, 1856-1960.’
The play unfolds at multiple levels. The prologue
introduces the narrator, an English speaking scholar
of the lost devadasi tradition. What she has discovered through her research and imagination takes the
-

form of a ghost woman, an apparitional devadasi

t2,

-- के
whose spirit has possessed her. Like Amba of the
happened to her after the BritMahabharath, the ghost has held her breath, waiting to tell what
called her from the void, but
ish deposed her god/husband in 1856. The narrator has unwittingly
quist and an exorcism.
she is mute. The narrator is compelled to tell her story both as vetrilo
Act I : The Invisible Limb
Sadir/Bharatanatyam
Dramatizes the destruction of the devadasi tradtion. Gestural vocabulary of
her patron and
is used. It begins in 1856, when the British deposes the King in Tanjore who was
principle of
active
the embodiment of her god. They convert the devadasi, the slave, wife anti
The
the deity into a tripod for their machine, which in a flash doubles the image of her god.
the
of
devadasi tries to touch the original, but the temple god withdraws his body . The evil
camera has put dbistz' on her god that she cannot remove. The god opens his third eye, full of
unshed tears. He is angry. The camera has destroyed the aura of her god. What should she do?
To remove the dbz'sti and atone for what she has unwittingly permitted, the devadasi undertakes
a pilgrimage, apadayatra. She walks to the three cultural houses: the Colonial, the Orientalist,
and the Tanjore establishments. The padyatm on stage dramatizes the traveling history of the
devadasi, and how she lost her name between 1856 and 1890. The devadasi is interrogated,

misunderstood, unnamed and renamed. She lost her beauty and her jewels, leaving only traces
behind.
The inmates of the three houses have fashioned life-size dolls resembling the 'puppet' the devadasi
traditionally carried in her hand as a dancer carries her gesture. Colonial administrators hailed
their doll devadasi-namely girl; Orientalist translators, from the Sanskrit, called theirs devadasi-

narta/ei; the brothers in the 'I'anjore house hailed theirs as devadasi-nit/ayasumanga/z'. Continuing her pilgrimage, she receives another blow
in 1887. The devadasi Muddupalani's erotic
' Radbz/ea
'
‘
epic
Samwanamu
has been cut by

हेवुपूहुँहँहँनैड्ड
Scripted &

: ﬁg,” /t English

Directed by
Presented by

: Dr. Avath Meduri
: téﬁOTHp-P-PATTARAI,

I

m S.

ennal

Orientalist translators and condemned as
obscene. The callophone in which
-

Muddupalam traced her female artistic heri-

Adpcygeijso 84 Door No 3/384

tage has to be excised,. The ghost woman

First Street: आ Venk-ateswara Nagar’

walls, as she has, for no manifest reason, ac-

Kottivakkarn, Chennai - 600 041.

32

