t woman. when|
can Shiva_ claim, the. ashes of the . ghos
.
nous movements ) into his god name? How
e, Vishnu s
ied to Vishnu in his temple? Shiva 5 danc
she was not his devadasi, and had been marr
her broken bangles, her

the dancer? Where are
bride devadasi's ashes, mingle. Who then is
I

es?
dancing bells? Where are her ash
.
Director's Note
the story about a real and imagined woman
The play, which draws on my doctoral research, tells

Sanibed her as a 'prostitute' in the 19th century,
by the name of devadasi. If Englishmen descr
',
revivalists hailed her as Nz'tyasumangalz the
skrit scholars idealized her as Nartaki, and Indian

was the devadasi's own name?
evergreen bride of god. One woman, so many names. But what
unspeakable things happened
Did she have a 'proper' name in which to tell her own story? What
ability to tell her own story?
in the 19th century that divested her of speech and with it the
kinds of violence
Enacted in English and Tamil, this bilingual play is not only about the many

as it was being
concealed in the act of naming but also a runination about Indian modernism
ism, after the
shaped, under the double imperatives of British colonialism and Indian national
annexation ofTanjore kingdom in the year 1856. The Western camera, English boots and white

ink were introduced into Tanjore as part of the civilizing and modernizing goals of the Empire.
"British sounds mingled with the sounds of temple bells ; the eyes ofthe empire clashed with the
eys of Hindu gods. Our gods were angry," says the devadasi who alone witnessed this epochal
clash between East and West which wounded and maimed forever the aura and sanctity of the
temple. How are we to respond to her cry about hybridization and cultural contamination? Ifher

gods could speak, what would they say?
Koothu-P-Pattarai
Under the stewardship of N. Muthuswarny a celebrated writer, Koothu-P-Pattarai has attempted
to make contribtions to Iamil theatre and importantly our tradition. Engaged in a relentless
pursurt of identifying, preseivmg and promoting various expressions of our cultural repertoire.
_ .
r r [W0 decades now, Koothu-P-Pattarai has addressed a variety of social issues
Ffolko‘ef

by adapting

0 art expressrons to modern theatre.
Avanthi Meduri

MA. in En 1'

Studi68. New York University. Trained in
Indian 035:2]an PhD from _D€pt' Of PerfOl‘maHCC
Telugu Hindi Tail???“ MUSIC for over twenty years. Performed in various languages such as

l

’

nal En1 है eman' Receww manl’ giants and awards including NEA (Natio

Visiting Asst. Professor, Women's Stud

ies at U .C .L A

Q

0601० (moat) two mooolmilr
ziloeogm);
\J

I

“roor
आs‘its
on mgo mini
(m mG war
' ‘ e50130.
r क्या
mlm
- oomnonulwgos
' ३ migo(stamggsis rogers»ठmimio 11 दु० mprﬂoaogm
31mm

na)

0) 01m

tusmmocumkoﬁoﬂmi Q2nJ6)<;H§(UIOS
Iﬁ कुट) (0०5८३

w
63 (m mm; ० min) odmmgo cru
saseimrménsismgmou» औरी)
~ ७,
-,.A
~
. a-ennui.की 19-00 णात्माआगृडीफ्लो ठाग्धद्रुटूड्डूदृज्जआँ (morning
० है राख्याआँश्यायांदु mm) 30mm mmgﬁb Chm mm
cm “A प्पीत्मादु रुशोट्टूप्रोयुदु. रारुरूशऐंष्णुठाहाँआष्णठाठे mhmaﬂ
24

