अ८अ८य१हीं:४न्द्रहुथ९हुहहुलहुहु' ,

a legend and a star. A vignette of 'Saubhagya Sundari‘ is presented.
.
‘
. as one of the most popular actors of his um
Sundari,
established
e has man admirers. He i
visrted

by I~azal Husain who offers him gifts.

,

y

8

Scene 7

Bapulal, Sundari's uncle, and his guru, as also his most successful
co-sar buys up the Gujarat
Natak Mandali, the company Sundari has performed in for
years. Sundari leaves theatre and
returns to his home town, Visnagar, as a man.
I

'

7

Scene 8

Sundari talks of his life in the theatre in a long soliloquy and bids good-bye to his
audience.
Director's Note
There have been two major routes to this tex on Sundar; One via an autobiography, especially an
actor's autobiography; and the other via the possible meanings female impresonation might have
in our times.

An actor's autobiography is a sort of manual from which one gleans the ways in which he / she
perepares -- we have tried to image such preparation -- which means laying open the tools of
observation, motivation, physical exercise, to view; the kit modern actors put to use and ofwhich

Sundari talks passionately and in great detail.. ...

Each scene attempts to recall the stage, the wings, the make-up room, rehearsal, practice, everyday observation. In some senses we have always tried to return to the problematic of acting, and
the stories around that.
The process has been of working and reworking the autobiography with the actors and that has
yielded a text. . . . The work is a collaboration between Nilirna Sheikh, Bhpen Khakhar, Vidya Rao,
Dinesh Khanna, Geetanjali Shree, the actors and myself. The text has been fashioned with ideas
that have crisscrossed from all of us -- to that extent then it is not seamless........ ..

On Visual Design
The design works with three major elements; quotations from the paintings of Ravi Varma, a
rethinking of Parsi Theatre traditions of curtains and the coming together of different 'hands‘ in
the process of painting the curtains, abjuring the single signatorial presence.
Between Ravi Varma and the theatre of that time there was an active reciprocity, conventions of
the new theatre and painting were being fashioned in tandem .........
We have used different register of painted language. Bhupen invents his own repertory from the
life and art ofJaishankar Sundari. Satyendra carries the traditon of the Parsi Theatre curtain to
'reporduce.’ With Soumen and Manoj, I have tried to in vent other ways of reproducing through
quotation and stylistic difference. Taazia-maker Shamsul Haque adapts the traditional marriage

vehicle into a ﬂoat for performance, his paper designs add another facet to parda-painter
Satyendra‘s backdrop to catch the changes of stage light. We engage the architectural space of

the proscenium arch by using fabricated backdrops and wings. The wings themselves are potential curtains - waiting in the wings.

.
.
Neelima Sheik
39

