A B OUT T H E GROUP
[n 2000. at Berharnpore. a new name come up in the theatre world
‘Theatre Berhampore' .
Seven-eight theatre workers formed this group with a new hope and
dream to do good theatre. In the first year Theatre Berhampore has
produced two plays. First one is ‘Nayan Kabirer Pala' written by Nabhendu
Sen and the second one is ‘Atmadaha’. written by Tarit Mitra. Both plays
are directed by Sandip Bhattacharya. Both plays are performed in the 3rd
and 4th ‘Bharat Rang Mahotsav’ organised by National School of
Drama. New Delhi. Till today Theatre Berhampore has produced five
major plays and two short plays. All the plays directed by Sandip
Bhattacharya. Theatre Berhampore has taken part in many prestigious
Festivals like Ganakrishti. Nandipat. Siliguri. Bansberia with their play
Dewan Gazlr Kissa. Atamadaha and got huge response from the
audience. 25th June. 2004. Theatre Berhampore has staged
‘Shikar Sandhane’. based on Sarnaresh Basu‘s Novel ’ ‘Shekal
Chhenra Hater Khonje’ Theatre Berharnpore organise Theatre
Festival every year. Theatre Berhampor‘e can be termed as a kid in theatre
field but has already become renowned through its hard work.

A B O UT TH E D I R EC'1‘O R
Sandip Bhattacharya is born in 1963 and graduated from National
School of Drama. New Delhi, with specialisation in Designing and
Direction in 1994. That too after doing Special Honours in Dramatic Arts
at Rabindra Bharati University in 1991. In 1995—96 he has awarded
scholarship of C.W.I.T for study of design at Wimbledon School of Art.
London.
Working as a independent Designer and Director he had the
opportunity of producing such prestigious productions like ‘Cherry
Orchard', ‘Hamlet'. ‘Muktadhara', ‘Madhyan Surya'. ‘Happy Prince‘.
‘Bhog'. ‘Tin Ki Talwar'. ‘Nayan Kabirer Pala'. ‘Sankrantir Madol'.
‘Atmadaha’. ‘Dewan Gazir Kissa'. ‘Shikar Sandhane'. Has also contributed in design productions for such eminent theatre personalities such as
B.\/. Karanth. B.M. Saah. D.R. Ankur. Anamika Haksar. Anuradha Kapur,
Bidyut Nag. At times to imbibe the true essence of performing arts. he had
indulged in Supplementary disciplines such as Painting. Music. Mask
Making. He acted in many plays.

I

Visited Japan as a Trainee Designer and also visited Sri Lanka as a
Technical 1 n s t ru c to r.

