SYNOPSIS OF MOB ARA K
Mobarak. a gallant general of some state is rewarded by its
Nawab feudal lordship. But Karnejops. the all powerful political agents
entices in him the dream of kingship. His wife Mushkan also tempts
him and he becomes the Nawab of the state by killing the Nawab.
The blame was put on the shoulders of Azam & Afroz. two princes
who fled to save their lives. Bikram. the other general was killed by
the mercenary assassinators. During the grand feast. Mobarak failed
to hide his mind from the guests. Karnejops employed Ullas to bring

in Mobarak‘s fall. They told Mobarak that he only could be killed if
the forest moved to the royal palace. Acertain insanity grows in
Mushkan and she finally kills herself. Now Mobarak is disillusioned
and is dissolved in the Nature. Azam becomes the Nawab— but the
lineage carries on — Birottam is seen being prepared under the
supervision of the Karnejops.

DIRECTORI A L NOTE
“Mobarak" is Macbeth — "Mobarak“ is not Macbeth - he is a
departure. In his plain story Shakespeare leaves many avenues of
possibilities to be explored. Here I have tried some of them to bring in a
contemporary value along with the perpetual one.
First. I dropped the supernatural machinery — a void developed
immediately and that was substituted by the nature itself. Mobarak is a
natural man. this is a story of his gradual alienation from the nature.

Kornejops are omnipresent - they are the political agents. kingmakers
who brings in unrest everywhere. Their masquerading attempts have
may riad faces. Mobarak. Azam & Birottam all fall pray to their
conspiracy and finally become bankrupt.

Ullas is another departure. Through him the perpetual story of the
exploitation of the tribal sects in our country has been introduced. They
never get the coveted seat but are used as machinery to carry on the
tumults & turmoils.
Mushkan is not the fourth witch here. not the nemesis of Mobarak.
She is rather a fruitless mother who has grown caustic - she hopes that
the enthorrning of Mobarak will reliever by giving glory. But basically

३ श्रीमती कीर्ति

l कीर्ति
७1८1

प्रतिष्ठान को भई
ﬂ

नटरंदृग प्रति ष्ठा

