FRIDAY 10 JULY 2015

Play: Two Adorable Losers
Director: Murtuza Kutianawala
Duration: 90 minutes
Cast: Abhisliek Pattnaik and
Karen Bhanushali
Language: English
Rating: ‘thk
Purvaja.Sawant

@‘ﬂ't‘ﬂWWﬂ’E , ,
ost plays in the city
are written either
for young kids or
mature
adults,
leaving
teenagers very little options
to choose from. With Two
Adorable Losers (ML), this
capricious generation of
audience has ﬁnally found a
contemporary English come
dy play they can relate to and
enjoy Written by Abhishek
Pattnaik and directed by
Murtuza Kutianawala of 786
fame, this fresh, youthful cre
ative team can give experienced theatre groups a run
for their money, if they keep
going the way they are.
'
’IIAL is a story of two peo-

ple, a professor: Jagannath
(Jolly) Mahapatra from
0disha, who is weak in his
English diction and a college
student Akshay, who is
abysmal in the subject

Statistics. Though both come but also the characters
from
radically different themselves. In the beginbackgrounds, they suffer ningaiolly comes across as
from one common issue an ex perating,authoritarthat’s the root of their prob- ian man, while Akshay
lems — an inferiority com- seemsl timid and hesitant.
plex. In an attempt to regain But as the play progresses,
their lost conﬁdence, they you see a tender side to the
approach each other and professor and a more audamake a pact. Jolly decides to cious ‘Akshay; an achievegive Akshay extra classes in ment in a duration of one
Statistics; in return Akshay and-ahalf hour.
The play starts off a little
decides to help him correct
his pronunciation in his slow :— the actors are still
getting into the characters
annual day speech.
Thewriting, especially the and some one-liners miss
dialogues are not cliched; a the sweet spot. But you get
soon
enough.
breath of fresh air. The exe involved
cution of this story, the jux- Pattnaik’s Jolly and Karan
taposing of scenes, the char- Bhanushali’s Akshay are so
acters suddenly sharing a well-enacted that the title of
word or two with the audi- the play is apt. Kutianawala
ence, is fun to watch. It brings out the most endeardevelops not only the rela- ing sides of them. A play I
tionship between the two highly recommend every
lead characters gradually theatregoer must watch.

POORir | AVERAGE** | GOOD*** I VERY GUOD‘k‘k‘k‘k I 0UTSTANDINGA~kﬁﬁir

Jalse Sookhe Hue Phool Kltaabon
Meln Mllqln (Hindi), Experimental
‘ . Theatre, HGPA, Harlan Point, Jul
. I 11, 7 pm; Directed by Nadira Zaheer
कु Babbar; Ina remote, forgotten library,

' thousandsfot books of literature. philosophy arid mythology in many languages are discovered. Starring: Hanit
Patni, Jasjeet Babbar, Santosh Tiwari

and others.
Aaje Havivaar Chhe (Gujarati),
Jul 12, Nehru Centre, Worli,
3.30 pm, Prabodhan Thackeray
Auditorium, Borivali, 9 pm;
Directed by Vinod Sarvaiya; This
is a tarnin drama. Starring:
Rajeev Mehta, Kinjal Bhatt,
Swapnil Azgaonkar and others.

Starring: Siddharth Randeria,
Tejal Vyas and others.
Gujjubhai Retire Thai the
(Gujarati),
Prabodhan
Thackeray Auditorium (Mini),
Borivali, Jul 12, 9 pm; Directed
by Imtiaz Patel; This is a new
comedy play. Starring: Anurag
Prapanna, Jai Kapadia, Kalyani
Thakar and others.

Gujjubhai Banya
Dabang
(Gujarati), Jul 12, 'l'ejpal Hall,
Gowalia Tank, 3.15 pm, Ek Vaanki Chuki Love Story
Bhaidas Hall, Vile Parle 8 pm; (Gujarati), Tejpal Hall, Gowalia
Directed by Siddharth Randeria; Tank, Jul 12, 7.45 pm; Directed
Gujjubhai is constantly nagged by Vipul Mehta; Love follows no

Zindagi Ek Safar Hal Suhana
(Gujarati), Bhartiya Vldya
Bhavan
Auditorium,
Chowpatty, Jul 12, 7.30 pm;
Directed by Kamlesh Mota; lt
spreads a message of love and
teaches us to live life positively.
Starring: Deepak Gheewala,
Ragini, Nilesh Joslri, Sneha
Salvi and others.

Wanted Varraja (Gujarati),
Kalidas Hall, Mulund, Jul 12,9
pm: Directed by Rahul Antani;
This is the story of a family that
wants
to get their daughter
by his wife and son that he has formula or theories and even if
not achieved anything in life, to the problems remain unsolved, married off to an MRI family.
which he replies that he is wait- the beauty is in the attempt to Starring: Riddhi Dave, Rahul
Antani, Pinki Jain and others. [,z
ing for the right opportunity. solve them in the right way.
A

