३६

A servant girl picks up an abandoned infant as
the Palace in being ransacked by rnutineers
and thus becomes a single, unwed mother.
Months pass, but the war doesn't seem to end
३
nor does her lover return. Her brother gets her
the "
married to a dying man. The war ends and the
के
३"
dying man rises up, no longer afraid of dying. Her lover returns.
_
1 The boy, now grown up, is taken away by the soldiers. The human tragedy of
Grusha provides a fitting contrast (and so probably a fitting counter—comment) to
the blood-thirsty rebellion ofthe carpet—weavers, the mutiny ofthe soldiers, and the tragicornic conspiracy ofthe Princes against the Dukes.
Human nature is not painted in of black or white — nor are the characters of the play.
"Grusha, the servant girl, is against war because it deprives her of her beloved. She
advises him to not expose himself, so he can survive. But on her flight into the mountains
she sings the song of the popular hero Sosso Robakdse, who conquered Iran. She does
this to bolster her courage.””Azdak makes the rescue of the child final through his
verdict. He can assign the child to her since there is no longer a difference between her
interests and those of the child. Azdak is the disappointed one who does not turn into
the one who disappoints.” [1 ]
At the time of the writing of the play the western theatre world was divided into two
broad groups, each assigning themselves the roles ofthe avant—garde — 'The Epic Theatre,‘
whose roots lay in pre-war German Expressionism and Dadaisrn, and the 'Theatre of the
Absurd' with its origins in Surrealism. [2&3] Yet, ”Brechtian realism makes use of clowning
and those broad comic effects which the Theatre ofthe Absurd derives from the silent film
and music hall (the wedding scene in The Caucasian Chalk Circle). Admittedly, on a deeper
level, the difference in approach is very great, for Brecht and his followers use all these
devices in order to depict a social, external reality, whereas the 'Theatre of the Absurd' is
mainly concerned with the outward projection ofa psychological reality;" [2]
The rneanderings of the story repeatedly into sub—plots and situations that try to reveal
the human nature of the common man and the society comprised of h i m/her have been
analysed as being a pointer to the Epic Nature of Brecht's plays, but for Brecht himself the
play is not a parable. “The chalk circle test in the old Chinese novel and play, as well as its
Biblical counter-part, Solomon's sword test, remain valuable as tests of motherhood (by

discovering rnotherliness) even if motherhood is to be determined socially rather than
biologically. The Caucasian Chalk Circle is not a parable.” [i ] Yet it was he who suggested
the book carrying the play along with The Good Person of Sezchuan be named ”Parables
ofTheatre” to Eric Bentley.

The contradictions and puzzles within this play as well as other writings of Brecht are, like
the incredible judgment of the improbable Judge, probably pointers that there is always

something more to look forward to than a grand revolution within the human society.
And the one thing that we are over—looking rnightjust be, our own human intricacy.

