Bertolt Brecht (i 898 —l 956) was a

German poet, playwright, and
theatre director.
He made contributions to dramaturgy and theatrical production, the
latter through the tours undertaken by the
i Berliner Ensemble — the post—war theatre company operated by Brecht and his
wife, long-time collaborator and actress Helene Weigel. At school in Augsburg he
met Caspar Neher, with whom he formed a life—long creative partnership, with Neher
designing many ofthe sets for Brecht's dramas.

When he was 16, the First World War broke out. Initially enthusiastic, Brecht soon
changed his mind on seeing his classmates "swallowed by the army". His anti—war and
pro—humanist philosophy is expressed in several of his plays, generally through his
protagonists, as in Caucasian Chalk Circle through Azdak, the improbable judge.
Writing in his Messingkauf Dialogues, Brecht identifies Valentin, along with Wedekind
and Biichner, as his "chief influences" ofthat time. He always wrote of himself in the third
person. Brecht later wrote that Chaplin "would in many ways come closer to the epic
than to the dramatic theatre's requirements." The Chaplinesque and Commedia-del
Arte had influenced his shaping ofcharacters as is evident in his playwriting and theories
ofdrarnatic performance.
During the war years, he expressed his opposition to the National Socialist and Fascist
movements in his plays: Life of Galileo, Mother Courage and Her Children, The Good
Person of Szechwan, The Resistib/e Rise ofArturo Ui, The Caucasian Chalk Circle, Fear

and Misery ofthe Third Reich, a n d many others.
Brecht's modernist concern with drama-as-a-medium led to his refinement of the "epic
form" of the drama. This dramatic form is related to similar modernist innovations in
other arts, including the strategy of divergent chapters in James Joyce's novel Ulysses,
Sergei Eisenstein's evolution of a constructivist "montage" in the cinema, and Picasso's
introduction of cubist "collage" in the visual arts. To this end, Brecht employed
techniques such as the actor's direct address to the audience, harsh and bright stage
lighting, the use of songs to interrupt the action, explanatory placards, and, in
rehearsals, the transposition of text to the third person or past tense, and speaking the
stage directions out loud.
There are few areas of modern theatrical culture that have not felt the impact or
influence of Brecht's ideas and practices; dramatists and directors in whom one may
trace a clear Brechtian legacy include: Dario Fo, Augusto Boal, Joan Littlewood, Peter
Brook, Peter Weiss, Heiner MUller, Pina Bausch, Tony Kushner, Robert Bolt and Caryl
Churchill.

