KAMLESHWAR(1932—2007)
Kamleshwar was a prominent 20th century writer

V who, along-with other post-independence writers
। of Hindi Literature like Mohan Rakesh, Ni rrnal Verrna
and Bhisharn Sahani, is considered to be part of the
… ५५
"५. है ”Nayi Kahani” literary movement of the 19505. He
was also a scriptwriter for Hindi cinema and
television and his notable works include Aandhi, Mausam, Chhoti si Baat and
Rang Birangi.

Kamleshwar had been associated with several Hindi magazines and journals since the
beginning of his career as a proof—reader for 'Vihaan'. He was the editor of several Hindi
magazines and newspapers including Dainik Jagaran (1990 -l 992) and Dainik Bhaskar
(1996 —2002). In the 19705 he became associated with the television industry and was
appointed the Additional Director General of Doordarshan (1980 — 82). He also wrote
stories for television serials, such as Chandrakanta, Aakash Ganga, Betal Pachisi, etc.
He was awarded the Sa h itya Akaderni Award for his novel Kitne Pakistan in 2003 and was
honoured with the Padrna Bhushan in 2005.

V.K. (Sharma)
A graduate from National School of Drama (3976-79
batch), with specialization in acting, V.K. Sharma has
over 30 years of experience in various aspects of
LYRICS
theatre, viz. writing, directing, translating, designing,
acting etc. He is the Founder—Director of Khilona, India's
ﬁrst professional company ofadults performing for children and has been exclusively
devoted to theatre with and for children for the last 25 years. He has worked as a
drama teacher at Modern School, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi for about 4 years, directing
12 plays for the school's various house functions; has written a number of plays and
translated/adapted over 30 world classic plays like Bertolt Brecht's Galileo Galilee,
Goldoni's The Servant of Two Masters and The Fan, Hauptmann's The Weavers,

Shakespeare's The Midsummer Night's Dream and Macbeth, and Peter Weiss's Marat

Sade, to namejust a few; and has worked with the NSD Repertory Co. as an artiste, touring
across India and abroad with various plays as associate director/stage manager, actor, etc
Mr. Sharma has also worked/acted in various television serials like Jasoos Vijay, Ji Mantriji,
Bhanwar and films like Attenborough's Gandhi, BBC's Jim Corbett, and Hindi Films like
Mujhe Kuch Kehna Hal, Milenge Milenge, Khosla Ka Ghosla, and London Dreams. His

forthcoming films include Anu rag Kashyap's Mast Ram, Farhan Akhtar's Fukrey and Vivek
Agnihotri's Freedom, to mention a few. In 2005 he became the ﬁrst and only children's
theatre expert to be honored with India's highest award in theatre direction by the
Sangeet Natak Akaderni.

