1 Ashwath Bhatt
After his graduation from National School of Drama,
। New Delhi, Ashwath Bhatt did his post—graduation
१ ३ in classical acting and acting instruction from
LAIVIDA (London Academy of Music and Dramatic
५ Arts) London. He is visiting faculty to various prestigious institutions in India and
- abroad; has worked with reputed theatre companies like Oxfordshire Theatre
Company—Oxford, GYLPT— Greenwich London, Flying Fish Theatre CompanyBerlin etc.; has done plays for BBC worldwide; and has been part of the collaboration
between National Theatre, Man nheim/Germany etc. He has acted under the direction of
various Indian and foreign theatre luminaries and has conducted workshops on various
aspects of acting in England, Germany, France, Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary,
Slovakia, Jordan, Nepal, Pakistan and India.
Apart from instruction, he regularly performs his one man show Ek Mulaqat Manto Se (A
rendezvous with Manto) based on the life and times of Sadat Hasan Manto. He is widely
known for his work on the 'Red Nose Clowning' theatre form. In 2007, he established a
non-profit trust, Theatre Garage Project. The philosophy behind this work is 'Finding
something in nothing'. His last two productions Inﬁnite Stupidity and Clown Town were
highly appreciated for their content and presentation.
He has also worked with acclaimed film makers like Mira Nair (in her recent release, The
Reluctant Fundamentalist), Buddhadeb Dasgupta, Rahul Dholakia, Ajita Suchitraveera
etc. H is next release is The White Lies with Osca r—wi n n ing d i rector Da n isTa novic.

Salam Biswajit Singh
Born in Manipur and trained in kung-fu, karate, kick—
sword
boxing, wushu and thang-ta, Salam Biswajit Singh
has 26 years experience of working with NSD and its
Repertory Company as a trainer and choreographer
of martial arts. He has composed and
choreographed ﬁght sequences for many plays and events such as Rakt Ka/ian,
Julius Caesar; Dil ke Andhere, Centwy Sigi Tungda, the International Angling
Festival 1993, Drums of India Festival 1 994, ShilpagramUtsav and for the Kingdom
of Dreams show 'Zangoora', 2010. He was awarded the title of SAMRAT by the Karate
Bodo—Ka n International Association in 1 997 a nd the Am bed ka r Award in 2009.

FIGHTING

