A case for a Regular Dance Theatre for Children
HILDREN, consisting of one third of India's population, are our country’s most
culturally neglected citizens. With the explosion of adult cinema entertainment
and India being the biggestﬁlm producer in the world to-day, the children have no
escape but to go to see these ﬁlms which destroy their aesthetic sensibility

before the darnagenismrealised.

The ﬁlm songs on the radio and regular sub-

standard ﬁlrn presentation on TV. has added to all this.

The situation demands

that we plan and create an alternative entertainment for the children which would
वृ enrich their inner world.
३ theatre must coincide.

It is time that education and entertainment, school and
~

;
Theatre is an integrated art activity and theatre for children is an important
है aSpect of basic theatre. A professional theatre by adults performing for children
is a new concept all over the world and some of the advanced countries which have
experimented on it have gained very rewarding experience. The Dance Theatre is
the most vital medium in this ﬁeld in addition to its inherent capacity to transcend
the language barrier which is very important in our multilingual country. For a
child, the imaginative combination of dance, music and drama can open the
door to a world oi humour, adventure, fantasy and for a choreographer it affords
a challenge in imaginative creativity. Such a theatre not only appeals to
children but also the adult audiences for whom it can be an occasion of awakening into the child-like world. Together they can make very potential family
audiences.

Statistically Speaking, Delhi has a child population'of about 16 Iakhs. It even
half of these could be mobilized through schools or other institutions to the
theatres, we can be assured of potenial audiences for the future which might help
theatre, in general, in its development. And a wholesome development of theatre
and its allied crafts may help solve to an extent the employment problem also as it
is well known that a ﬂourishing theatre has a tremendous capacity for employment.

The need and importance of theatre for children has been increasingly felt and
appreciated. It should take the form of a national movement. So far not much
has been done towards this urgent need. No other time could be better to mobillze
resources and make public opinion for this educational-cum-entertainment aspect
of children's need than the International year of the Child-1979.

BHOOMIKA, Creative Dance Centre has been doing pioneering work in this
ﬁeld. Born six years ago with the late Uday Shankar as its ﬁrst patron, Bhoomika
is engaged in establishing the ﬁrst professional dance theatre for children in Delhi.

It has already to its credit ten full length and short ballets pres'ented in collaboration with Children’s Film Society at Sapru House, Sri Ram Centre and Gandhi
Memorial Hall on Sunday mornings drawing full houses and enthusiastic public
and press comments. Bhoomika has Narendra Sharma as founder-director who
has received award from Sangeet Natak Akademi and Delhi Sahitya Kala Parishad.
ﬁeld
He is one of the leading choreographers in the country who has worked in the
of
study
special
a
of dance for children for over two and a half decades. He made
Germany.
West
and
children's theatre movement in USSR, Czechoslovakia

