'ANDHA YUG' AS SEEN BY US

The play was written in Hindi by noted poet, playwrite and journalist. Dr. Dhararnvir Bharti in September, 1954 : a most opportune
time perhaps, as we see it now, India was quite fresh with its memory
of Independence. It was a period of self introspection : a time for
evaluating the true meaning of Freedom at personal front for every

individual of a Nation which was into making and carving out an ideal
presents and fu 1ure for itself of the ruins of its chaotic past. 'AN D HA
YUG' of Dr. Bharti was perhaps just a motiff of this process. But
fortunatelylun‘ortunately there r re stil grounds to explore futher the
persistent 'Darkness’ even after 47 years of our Independence at one

level and Globalization another level.

'ASMITA' sees various compelling reasons to stage 'AN 0 HA
YUG’. It is the part of a Process which began with the staging of
Caligula’s quest for truth and caught up with 'Tughlaq’ from a point

onwards, where Caligula had lost his track and halts at 'AN 0 HA
YUG’ (Pun Intended), when Tughlaq's failute and perhaps his subse-

quent realization of meaning in life had left a few cues. 'AN 0 HA YUG'
is painfully a resultant but enlighting saga of those. who after a SocioEconomic and Political struggle have survived to face the bare truth
of life : A truth of their own independent interpretations in the back-

drop of one ultimate truth subjugated within their internal self perhaps
or even quite explicitly apparent but beyond their comprehensisn.
We want to do it in order to break once again the myth of outer
grandeur attached with its powerful content due to i‘s various earlier

presentations by likes of Satya Dev Dubev (Borr‘bay. 1962), Ebrahim
Alqazi (Talkatora Garden and Purana Oila in Delhi) and a few years
back by Ram Gopal Baiaj. But we certainly do not intend to experiment with it like Ravi Basvani either with guns and grenades.
We follow the dictum that a creative person while being a part of
his time also moves simultaneously ahead with a traget of going
across different periods. The incidents and characters in the play are
related with the Mahabharat and Dwapar Yug but we feel in them the

pulse of our contemporary society.

Recreation of popular stories is

