not an effort to either revise or rewrite them. It is neither to follow
them nor to issue a new
light, meaning and truth
of humanity can also be
emphatically as in one's

edition of them. it is an effort to seek new
of I ife out of them. The Universal question
depicted in Ancient Mythological stories as
contemporary countary, claims and I ife.

This presentation seeks to be a symbolic investigation of our
present times, moving in perfect rhythm with the downward movement

of 'ANDHA YUG' (Period of Darkness) through the images of past
which are not merely a mythology for ns.

And in this sense, eventhough the plot is based on an aspect of
the Mahabharat, the internal conflicts of various characters and their
contrasting personalities not any sound universal but also very contemporary. One may feel it in the counter violence, loss of faith and
desire of revenge of Ashwathama (representative of a son’s or any
other modern individual’s dilerna), in the dissil lusionrnent of yuyutsu

(mirroring split personality of modern youth) : in Sanjay’s painful
neutral position (representing dilemma of India’s nonaligned statured

and traged of Indian lntellectuals : Dhritrashtra's biased reasoning
with truth as a king (symbolic of the approach of various present rul-

ing State Heads). It can be seen in Gandhari’s’bl ind affection (representative of a provocative mother) and also in the comments of Guards
& internal conflicts of various other characters like Vidur. Kripadcharya
and Kritverma. They all are caught up in the self created web of
violence, counter violence, terrorism, resulting from an otherwise
avoidable war for Economic, Social and Political autonomy and
superiority amidst an ever existing divine truth, one may term it as
Shri Krishna's truth or a truth rnherent within their individual self.

The action starts in the play of the 18th day of the Mahabharat
war, when most of Kauravs are dead, Guru Drona has been killed and
and Dhritrastra and Gandhari await the news of victory of their son
Duryodhan over Pandavas.

Asmita’s Contact :

1/5243, Balbir Nagar. Delhi—32
Phone : 2424598 (Jaimini)

2205447 (Rajeev)

