walked on the right side of life due to
helpless circumstances has to choose
the wrong side and the roller coaster ride
begins. The only difference is that this
roller coaster does not go up and only
takes him down.
0 WHEN: Today, 7.45 pm

WHERE: Tejpal Hall, Gowalia Tank

(9 WHEN: Today, 7.30 pm
WHERE: Rangsharda Auditorium,
Band ra
BARSAAT Kl W0 RAAT
The comic love story begins with an
actress addressing the audience. She
is Radhika Bulbul, a struggling actress,
who is desperate to find love and success in Mumbai. Uninvited she barges
into an advertising agency for an audition and meets Ashok Sehgal, a hugely
successful ad filmmaker. Radhika gains
his sympathy and holds him hostage
in her apartment on a rainy New Year’s
Eve. Ashok despises this crazy girl but
as the night turns into day he realises
that he has begun to fall in love with her.

DHARMAPAT'H
This is the story of a family where the
members have forgotten the dharmapath. The dada and dadi try to bring
them on this path and doing this they go
on a roller coaster ride and whether they
are successful or not is dharmapath is
what the play is all about.
a WHEN: Today, 7.45 pm
WHERE: Chavan Auditorium, Near
Sach ivalaya
MAS NAS MA KHUNNAS
An honest journalist who has always

JYAN LAXMI TVAN NARAYAN Nanji Zatkiya believes that money can
buy happiness in this world. Even god
supports those who have wealth. God
himself comes and tries to explain to
Nanji that his belief is not correct but
Nanji is adamant and challenges God
and then starts a humorous game of
money monster.
0 WHEN: Today, 4. 30 pm and 9 pm
WHERE: Aspee Auitorium, Marve
Road, Malad
KHUS RAHO YAAR, LIFE rs
BEAUTIFUL
This play is about a celebration of life.
Two families are at logger heads with
each other as the son of one family and
daughter of another have eloped and

got married. A stranger in the plot is
trying to bring the two families together
and nobody knows wiry he’s doing that.
This hilarious comedy comes with a
strong message that life is too short to
tight, so resolve your differences before
your time is up.
e WHEN: Today, 3.30 pm

WHERE: Nehru Centre, Worli

/

