Author’s Note

This is my ﬁrst attempt at playwrigthing -— and I am only too conscious
of the shortcomings of Pratishodh.
Pratishodh is the story of conﬂict between traditionalism and modernism
in the present transitionaiperiod of the social change in our society, and
ithe '
ambivalence which this conflict has generated.

'Dr. Yatindra Verma and his wife Anjana are torn between modernism
and traditionalism'—each having his/her own conception of traditionalism
and
modernism. Dr. Verma wants to go modern. He is fully conscious
of the _
intellectual superiority of his wife, but does not want to reconcile.

Anjana is traditional insofar as she presents ' a picture of
a devoted

lndian wife, but she is modern to the extent» she does not
want to sacriﬁce

the cause to which

she is devoted at the altar of a‘husband who expects

everything but yields nothing.

There lies here dichotomy.

Whereas Yatindra and Anjana symbolise one segm
ent of our society
caught in the whirlpool of a changing social order, anoth
er segment is represen-

ted by the maid servant and herxhusband, who ape—as peopl
e in the lower
strata of society always do their masters belonging to
the upper strata.

They

have their own aspirations.
When the maid servant is tempted to wear
Aniana’s saree, she silently Speaks of the pentup desires of the low class to
enjoy good things of life. She does not yield
to Yatindra just for the heck of
it. She has been promised a job for her husba
nd, and she imagines that with
. increased incomeithey would be able to raise their
‘standard of living’ -!-- 'She is
afraid of losing her job, becaUse, in that event
she would have to lose all the
privileges going with it. The very thought of
their having to live in a shanty
area is revolting to her. The husband. on the
other hand, happy with abundant

boose, sumptuous, meals and a foam bed to sleep
on with his wife, could not
care less for the .world which has given him nothi
ng as a matterof right.

Then, in our changing social order, both the coupl
es represent the
growing dichotomy .in our society itself, despi
te the fact that we. as a nation,
are striving to build an egalitarian order.
३
Perhaps l have already said much more than
i should have about what

I think of the themetic aspect of the play. May I assure you that
this is no
attempt at brain-washing ‘? You are free to judge . the play on
' its merits or
oth erw i s e .

