HOW WE MARCHED 0N—
“Grow old along with me
there is yet to be.”

That is what Carlyle said and our Parishad believes in this verdict. Since 1951
Parishad has all along learnt from its experiences and has accepted calmly and with all
humility the compliments for its achievements. Swinging we go while the going is good
and cautious we are While it is tough.

Twenty and four years haVe rolled by since the day when only a handful of young
men with just one hundred and odd books set up the Parishad which is primarily a library.
of
And today the Parishad has more than four thousand books covering a cr0ss-secticn
That
Bengali literature-novels, fictions, dramas, biographies, crime-thrillers and what not.

the post graduate students of Bengali literature find ours as a reference library, is a matter
books.
of pride for the Parishad. Children also have a share of more than five hundred

Parishad has diversified interests and has endeavoured to promote the cultural
heritage to a considerable extent. While the birth anniversaries of Rabindranath, Nazrul,

Sharatchandra, Michael, Sukanto have been celebrated as a matter of course, the cultural
ntly.
functions like Ritu Bandana, Barshamangal and the kind also creep in intermitta

Parishad has been considerably conscious in giving vent to its intense literary
number of Annual Magazinesinterest. Innumerable Wall-Magazines and quite a sizeahle
Parishad Barshiki-themselvcs bear witness.

In dramatics again the Parishad has maintained its forward march

with

dignity.

performances will be
More than a score of dramas have been staged so far. The list of our
sensitive aspect of the Parishad's
found elsewhere. Select-ion of plays has always been a very
standi. As in today's play ‘AADHE
character, where easy popularity never had any locus
since the day of our inception
ADHURE' vital social content has been the guiding torch

into the dramatic arena of the capital.
We take this opportunity to

invite

one and

all to our Parishad to share the

treasure we have.
[3

