THE QUEST

among some directors, folk theatre is losing its sheen
and naturality. What is the reason behind this tendency?

The word quest is no strange to theatre. The
quest began from the dawn of ci vili s ati on ; the human
being searched for theatre and the theatre, human
being. Probably, for this reason theatre has survived
many a cataclysmic changes with dignity. Quest is
innherent in the basic character ofthe theatre. Quest for
language. quest for ever-changing body-language, quest
for new expressional devices of the human being
commensurable with the changing times, quest for new
. characters, quest for theatre methodologies. quest for
collective psyche of the ever-modern audience, quest
for changing forms oflatlguage and, above all, quest of
theatre for its own self. There is nothing that the theatre
does not explore; the quest touches entire gamut of art
forms. It is not for nothing that theatre is termed fifth
Veda. But here, I would not go into philosophicalness
of theatre. We all know about that too well.

I sincerely feel that text itself beckons to form
for presentation. Ifthe theatre workers of Hindi region
return to origi a1 hindi plays and its arnbience, thet can
hope to get a lot out of it. This is not Hi ndism. We
should not be averse to placing S ophocles and
Shakespeare with K a l i d as an d B h a rten d u
Harishchandra. We Inust also strive to understand
plays ofBertolt Brecht, Samual Beckett side by side
the plays ofMohan Rakesh, Girish Karnad, Vijay
’I‘endulkar, Badal Si rcar, S u ren dra Verma,
Rameshwar Prem, ’I‘ripurari Sh arrna and other
Indian playwrights. But my contention is that unless
we go to the audience of Hindi region with original
Hindustani language plays (Hindi-urdu plays) with all
humility, the hindi theatre could never thrive and will
continue to be as strange as ever. Needless to recall that
theatre being essentially regional art form, the more it
gets localised, the more universal its appeal becomes.
Nata Bundele has pledged to establish plays oinndi—
Urdu and dialects of Hindi language on hindi theatre.
We are presenting a list of original hindi-urdu playa.
There might be mistakes in the list for that we apologised
in advance. So this is one aspect of our quest.

Nata Bundele always practices the wider concerns
of theatre but here I am going to discuss its certain
practical aspects. And that include my experience
during research on Bu n deli swang under a project of
the Union HRD ministry. I was awarded three-years
senior fellow-ship to work on Bundeli swang. That
study immensely enriched my vision and inﬂuenced
my subsequent work.
It is almost cliche to say that Hindi does not have
original plays and whatever small number of them
exists is bereft of theatre worthiness. This is a white
lie, I would say from the roof-top, i f I may do so. Ram
Gopal Bajaj , a thespian with rich literary background,
has been stressing for years that there is no dearth of
good plays in Hindi, but they are awaiting good
directors and directors are waiting for opportunity.
This unnecessary harping on lack of good original
hindi plays has its genesis in the ignorance of the westoriented people who try to dominate theatre scenes
from Delhi to Bhopal and other big cities, aping
western plays. Patch-work oftheatrical devises is also
in vogue in theatre these days. Folk forms are being
used like commodities and because of this penchant

Second aspect of our quest is to give the
unﬁnished task of Dishan tar a shape of wide theatre
movement. Hindi theatre may not have forgotten how
Dishantar, Delhi had enriched urban theatre not too
long back. Later, reporteries run by government and
commercial houses overwhelmed the initiative of
Dishantar with a glut of adapted plays from Europe.
These theatre troupes do not promise much substance.
We are looking for a theatre that would provide
performers an opportunity to express their spiritual
and creative yearning on stage, where artistes would
gather at a place for expression out of creative urge and
not for salary. Of course , the governments having seen
their theatre institutions going to the dogs, can think as
to what help can be provided to such groups ofartistes

(1 0)

