is also a practical necessity. We have to work on this
aspect with meticulous and eloborate planning.

for rehersals.

West Bengal's Bahurupi, Nandi kar, Shatabdi
and Maharashtra's Pu ne Theatre Academy are the
examples ofsuccessful theatre by non-s a1 an'ed artistes
who gather together for expression after toling in the
day for bread. Ifthe same could happen in Hindi theatre
it will bode well for it. But, the institutions providing
grants should be told in un-ambiguous term that their
money does not empower them to interfere in the art.
Third aspect of the quest is to intensify theatre
movement so much so that performance and watching
ofplays become a part of Hindi speaking populationof
this country. A part, if not the entire Hindi speaking
people has to be cajoled and coerced into making
theatre a habit so that it would feel a sort of vacuum
without theatre in itself. Only these people can ﬁll the
vacuum in Hindi theatre. The hindi speaking regions,
are not fortunate enough to have a tradition of theatre
audience like Maharashtra and West Bengal have. I
can not comment on the quality of todays's B angla or
Marathi theatre, but there is no g ai ns ayi ng the fact that
they have a wide viewership.

My quest will be incomplete without mention of
an event in my creative journey. The play Chanda
B edani was to be written by Tripurari Sharma. She did
write and her draft is entirely different from mine.
During the research for the play, I stumbled upon a
Bundeli folk-lore of a king, queen, a bedani and a
cobbler. I saw a lot of room for triangular tense
relationship among the establishment, labour and artist
_ in the story. I spoke to Tripurari and she, in turn, very
generously allowed me to go ahead with the story,
though the first draft of the play was quite different
from the final one. Tripurari's Inagnanimity and
openness is an unforgettable example ofhealthy mutal
relationship among artists. I am grateful to Tripurari
and look forward to an early publication other version
ofChanda B edani .

We wanted to present Saloni Gauraiya, a play
for children by elders but due to certain practical
reasons we could not do so. We regret for that.

Very important theatre work is being done in
Hindi but for want of tradition of audience, best of
productions are packed up after certain number of
shows. For Hindi theatre quest for audience and sponsors

Alakh nandan

(Translated from Hindi by Rakesh Dixit)

(1 1 )

