TIME SPACE MUSIC AND SOUND
B. V. Karanth
These last few years I have done a lot ofresearch
in music in theatre, and I have now come to the

the ringing bell of a bicycle. Then environmental
sounds. Then songs, etc. Or musical pieces-brecht

conclusion that music in theatre is not music, but a
sound design, a sound plan, like the ground plan. In the
small space and small duration ofa theatre performance,
the control of space and time offers a special problem.

would call them idioms. Then creative music,
interpretive music. As for sources, we can draw from
any source. In fact, rather than use the violin or any
such established instrument, we should create our own
instruments, or 11 se the more ordinary instruments like
the manjeera, the ektara etc. , the point being that they
should be instruments that anyone can play. I made
several of these any-one—can-play instruments at
Rangayana. Noise can also become sound when we
give it some meaning. We call it noise only when we
can't make any sense ofit. When children are quarelling,
we say why are you making such a noise? But for them
it is not noise. They are quarelling meaningfully. In
theatre, any noise or sound, any besura awaaz, that
conveys a meaning, is a musical sound.

In Natyashastra terms, the angik a i s concerned with
the management ofspace, and the Vachik a is concerned
with the management of time. Vachika is not just
speech, but whatever sound starts with the help ofthe
tongue. That's how I would rediﬁne vachika. Definitions
go on changing. We once thought that vachika only
means reading. Now we know that it stands for the
totality of sound, including linguistic sound, i.e. , the
bhashikadhvani, the primary vowel and consonent
sounds, and the creative and reactive sounds, like the
call sounds, the expressive-exclamatory sounds. With
Rangayana, I made a ragaswaraga, using only sounds,
voices, even noises. For theatre, music should be
entirely independent ofclassical music, folk music or
any kind of music. It should be essentially theatre
music-theatre should create its own music, its own
instruments, its own sound patterns. It is applied
music, and demands imagination in the application, in
terms ofits different functions, e. g. evocative music at
the beginning, linking music, decorative music,

In rnrinal sen's Parashuram or my own
Chomana Dudi it is entirely sounds, I would say that
it is not ragakari, but swarakari, not talakari but
layakari. Since realistic ﬁlms need sound and not
classical music, which is often quite alien to the setting
being opened up, I started moving in this direction-in
kadu, which has many faults, as most of my earlier
works seem to have whenever I look back at them. In
Hamasageethe, I used only human sound, It is not a
new thing in cinema. In Neecha Nagar, there had been
an experiment with a sound pattern of human voices.
But then it became instruments all the way. In
Hamsageethe it is either the main character singing, or
the whole of nature singing. I used the ragadari also,
but in human voices, e.g. sounds like ‘ hoh !' ‘ hah !' But
in Hamsageethe, too I see so many mistakes now. In
Chomana Dudi , my sound plan started with the shooting
itself. Before that I had seen Nayak, with its rich use

punctuating music, mood music (we Indians are very
rich in mood music), narrative music, and creative
music. For creative music, I have always drawn my

illustrations from Ritwik Ghatak's ﬁlms, particularly
Meghe Dhaka Tara, Alkazi's stage production of
Ashadh Ka Ek Din, and Satyajit Ray's ﬁlm,
particularly Nayak , the train sounds. It is still growing
in my mind, this concept of theatre music. It may still
have several inner contradictions. The sound plan has
to begin with the dialogue, its speech pattern, its

oftrain sound. (I don't know whether you know that the

accents, stresses, volumes, pitches, pauses. But then

whole recording was made by Subrata Mi tra. He went
on recording like mad . . . . ) Without being mad, how
can one do something so brilliant? (He didn't know how
it would be used later on. ‘ For the fun of it. He did the

you may have to give some punctuating music, drawing
sometimes on the playwright's suggestions, say a
banging sounnd. Then some possibility sounds, say

(1 5)

