There were several variations in between the fourth and

entire thing. At one stage he even sent the recorder
down the commode on a string.) My n an r aste to hi m !

fifth levels, including abusive words, typically
Brahmanical (that the critic kirti nath kurt kot i describes
as extremely unproductive), growling and bantering
tones. When I used songs, they were not classical
songs, but Purandaradasa songs, four centuries old,

In Chomana Dudi, I used jungle sounds for the
sounds ofcrickets . . . so many crickets inside the house
and outside, daytime and at night, and sound from

bamboo stalks and the sound of drums. For some
scenes I drew inspiration from Ritwik Ghatak, and I
came to use the sounds ot‘women pounding rice, music
from the south Indian wedding routine, and a grave
shruti. In the play Rishyashru nga, for a scene with so
many dead bodies under the hot sun, I used three or four
tanpuras, de-noted.

with their critiques ofreligious hypocrisy, which was

one of the targets of my play. There were thirteen or
fourteen 01‘ these songs-they were notjust devotional,

but rich with meanings at several levels simultaneously.
One of the songs serves as a reaction to a particularly
hypocritical commentary, beginning with the line It
makes me laugh, ha ha ha . . . several of Purandaradasa's
ﬁrst lines are like newspaper headlines. When the
Swami says that he does not know to which world he
should belong, this world or another world, the song
runs: I'm stuck between two women I, sleep with
one, the other's after me/I sleep with the other, the

My method of sound I drew from two points of
reference, ﬁlms and my own environment. I have heard
so many sounds. In more than one Ray ﬁlm, there is
" this bird sound toto-toto. I have used a similar kikikiki sound in Chomana Dudi. On my short visit to
Calcutta from Banaras, I saw Shuva with Sharmila
Tagore as a dumb girl, where the director uses many
sounds, including rough note harrnonium, a bellows
harmonium, rippling water, birdsounds, to underscore
the dumbness of the girl.

ﬁrst one's in a rage! with the former, there's no

happiness/with the later, no fruit. Obviously, the
ﬁrst one is the wife, the second the mistress. And then
the song goes: In the tangle of relationships, a-haha! The a-ba-ba is obviously an exclamatory. Now I
think I know how speech and sound and music can be

I used ﬁve types ofspeech levels in my S attavara
Naralu (The Shadows ofthe Dead). The ﬁrst level is
story telling in traditional style, from the mutt setting.
The second is choric. The third level is soliloquizing.
The fourth level is civil speech in dialogue like

interlinked to convey meaning.

(Courtesy: Seagull Theatre

Benirnadhab in ’I‘inner 'I‘alwar (The Tin Sword). The

Quarterly, Calcutta)

ﬁfth level is speech in a more Sanskritized manner.

I

(1 6)

