BEST OF HINDI PLAYS AWAITING OPPORTUNITIES
Ram Gopal Bajaj
Ram Gopal Bajaj is one of those tew theatre

can you expect theatre workers to raise real
issues on stage. Nobody tolerates an honest
man, whether i t is government or society. He
is deliberately denied opportunities. I know,
you also want to do a lot on theatre and, no
doubt, you t work is ()1leng standard but how
many plays you are able to stage in a year?
( iovernments will help you, industrialists
will also provide you fund and political
parties will extend co-operation only ifyou
eschew real questions coniionting the society.
Otherwise, nobody will take interest in your
work. Governments want uncritical theatre,
political parties desire to use theatre as
slogans and industrialists will promote the
theatre that serves their vested interest. So
far foreign funding agencies are concerned,
they want theatre of nothingness. With this
scenario, dominating culture, how can you
do theatre of your liking? Because of this
ironical situation, respectability eluding
original Hindi plays that is due to them. You
have no chance in this system.

practioners who are scholars of Hi ndi literature as well.
He has served as professor and Repotory chief of the
National School of Drama, Delhi, Presently, he is a

Free-lancer. Recently, A1 akhnandan had a rneaningul ,
though brief discussion in Bhopal with him. We are
presenting excerpts ofthe interview-Editor.
Alakhnandan : What do you think about the dearth of
original plays in Hindi?

RGB : This crisis is prevalent in all languages, not only
in Hindi. But it is not true that Hindi literature
has no good original plays. I can cite dozens
oforiginal Hindi plays which I and persons
like me might be wanting to stage. But due to
lack ofopportuni ties we fail to do so. Staging
ofplays entails money and for that we have
sopnsors too. Where are the sponsors? Best
of Hindi plays are awaiting opportunities for
staging. Play is not synonirnous of theatre.
We have written texts but their enactment on
st age poses problem. This anomaly
discourages pl ay-wrights and theatre workers
alike.

Alakhnandan : But S angeet Natak Academy i s doing
pretty well in bringing forth new plays.

Alakhnandan : There is a surfeit ofrepertories sponsored
and funded by government, corporate houses
and even foregin agencies in India. Can not
these institutions take up this challenge?

R G B : What does S angit Natak Academy have ? what
are their sources and resources? Why can not
we have independent academy for modern
theatre? of course we have repertories. But
just look at their plights. About three—tour
Government supported, foreign supported
and corporate-sponsored repertories are dr = ३ ng
theatre, in Hindi region. But just see, what
they are doing? Since modern theatre cannot
be manipulated for vested interests
establishments do ' not take interest
inprornoting it. In this age of informationexplosion, where different cultures are
interacting with one another closely, where
pluralism is finding new idiom and socio-

RGB : How can they? A play does notjust entharals like
dance and music do. It raises certain burning
questions. Establishment and political parties
use culture to nourish their own thoughts.
This hyprocritical use of culture does not
leave much scope for staging of serious
plays. Some industrialists seem enarnoured
of theatre these days. But their interests are
different; they wish to propogate their own
religious (?) ideas through this medium. Tax
evasion is also a factor in this cultural
benevolence. Against this backdrop, how

(1 9)

