C HA NDA B ED NI
Written and Directed by

Alakh nandan.

Music

0 m Prak ash Ch ou rasi y a

Special Music Effects

B .V . Karanth

Dance Elfects

Pt. Ram S ah ay Pan dey
Pt. Ramlal

(First show in West Zone Theatre Festival of Sangit Natak Academy)

integrating more with the needs of the play. The
multiple strains of fol k elements are blended to create
a new kind of symphonic effect.

A brahmin youth falls in love.Chanda, a girl
belonging to the B edni Community. Chanda treats this
as a j oke and sets conditions impossible for the youth
to fulﬁl -oouditions which would mean the repudiation
ofthe entire Brahmin tradition. But the youth accepts
all the donditions. Chanda is moved by the youth's
sincerity and dedication, and cannot but reciprocate his
love. A crisis ensues in both the communities. The
brahmins appeal to the king to reSolve the issue. The
king, who himself is in love with Chanda becomes
jealous and decides to interfere. Equally jealous, the
queen makes Chanda perform rope dancing. When
Chanda is on the verge of winning, the shoe maker's
help is taken to cut the rope as the legend goes. The
shoe-maker also becomes a victim unlike in the legend.
" The cruel, cunning and uncaring political system
tramples on the innocence and faith of the simple
people for its own selfish, petty reasons.

The story ofChanda is deeply integrated into the
ethos ofthe Bu ndel khand region of M adhya Pradesh.
The B ednis are looked down upon by other caste people
in the region. Because of their talent in dancing and
their socio-economic background, they are complelled,
to serve as entertainers to zami ndars and the nobility in
fuedal system. The play is an adaptation ofa old legend
that is popular in the region. It is an attempt to
unversalise a folk legend into the drama of emotional ,
social and economic tensions which have plagued
human society. What attracted the playwright is the
triangular relationship between the power, artist and

common man. The theme of the play is inspired by
Hindi poet A njaneya's poem Naach which describes
the difficulties of rope dancing relating to an artist's
problems. the same problem is faced by the ropedancer Chanda Bedni, hence the play is a unique
interaction betWeen a modern poem and a folk legend.

The fol-k elements that are in the play are not
imposed from outside, but have emerged intuitively
and naturally from within the play itself, thereby

(25)

