A Nat Bundele Presentation
JAGAR MAGAR ANDHE‘R NAGAR
lmpresses Audience
HEMLATA
(National mail, Bhopal May 26, 1993)

BHOPAL: Nat B undel e , dram a troupe staged
J agar Magar Andher Nagar an amalgam of B hartendu
H ari shchandra's plays interwoven deftly by the director,
Alakhnandan, a name to reckon with in the Hindi
theatre circles, not only in Bhopal but in the whole of
India. This was the sixth presentation. It was staged at
the open-air mi ni-theatre ofGandhi B hav an on May 2 1 .
The stage arrangement of this play is unusual,
rectangular in shape with two centres of acting at the
longer edges with a number ofstages on the sides. The
audience occupies the centre and moves according to
the pl ace ofacti on . Every new sequence is started with

of action, overacting and so on, the disco presents
change, a relief, for the ti me being, but really it does not
fit in with the times of Hari sh Chandra.

MAIN ATTRACTION : - The bazar scene from
Andher Nagari sequence was the main attraction; the
Chane .Ior Garam Wal a, Choran wal a, Narangi Seller,
the ﬁghting female vendors were a perfect treat. I rfan
S au rabh as Chane Wal a, S udhi r Nema as the greedy
student Goverdhan Das, Medha Paul as court singer,
Aruna Shrivastava as Bhistin, Kaynat Kausar as
Narangi seller were good in their respective roles.
Above all, good team work and dedicated efforts by all
was clearly evident.

a song, the participants move around in a rectangular
fashion singing and dancing. As the new stanza begins,
the actors remain still as in a freeze—shot, start moving
as soon as the stanza is over as if they were enacting
what was mentioned in the lines. Apart from these
technicalities ofpreserrtation, the director has not only
studied all the plays ofthe author, selecting the salient
features of his writing, the director has focussed the
time and the rampant irregularities of the social and
political life than and how the author has used them for
his satirical works. Taking this as an undercurrent of
the dramatic form, Alakhnandan has deftly prepared
the script for staging. The result is that though the
sequences are from different plays, they merge into the
theatrical form smoothly and coherently. One is faced
with the times otharatendu Hari sh Chandra, and this
is what the director wants, cheers, more power to the

elbow.

In a short chat after the performance Alakhnandan
said the process of creation is going on. There have
been many changes, additions and cuts as well. This
will go on as it is a continuous process. I consider the
first stage performance of any play to be a grand
rehearsal.
l Suddenly remembered .layadev Hattangadi's
remarks when he was in Bhopal to direct Surya Ke Pil 1e
for B harat B hawan last year. He said that in Maharashtra,
good art lovers prefer to see seventh or eighth
performance ofa play. They think that by that time the
artist as well as the entire team get properly tuned to the
requirements of the production. Great minds think
alike!
Nat B undel e has started a new line of approach
for staging ofplays. Hope others will also give thought
to this. Otherwise it is often noticed that though the date
is fixed for stage production pretty in advance, the
group hardly has done a couple of full rehearsals and
there they are on the stage!

.

OP CHAURASIA: Music, as is scored by the
well known Santoor player, Om Prakash Chaurasia,
suits well with the presentation, Chaurasia has selected
practically all the popular tunes that were used in the
plays in the beginning of this century. This has added
to local colour to the play. With this the music director

.lagar Magar Andher Nagar— a commendable

performance - hope to see better versions in the
forthcorn i rig perform annces .

has used modern tunes for even the disco for instance.
I

wa
y
st
a
yl
is
in
ed
co
nc
ei
be
ve
en
d
ha
s
pl
ay
wh
ol
th
e
As e

(57)

