Nata Bundele and Audacious Experiments

KISHANLAL FAILS TO IMPRES S
(National Mail 30th Jan, 1990)

BHOPAL : After Ghoas a play enacted last
month, the enactment of Kishanl al at Ravindra Bhavan
on Monday highlights the phenomenon that absurdity
is fast becoming a fashion in the amateur theatre of
Bhopal. Absurd plays are generally constructed on
dream-patterns, aiming to explore the depths of
subconscious rather than mere realistic details. In an
absurd play, no hero exists. The central ﬁgure is an
anti-hero, inferior in power and intelligence to the
spectators. The world ofabsurd plays is out ofharmony
with the world we live in and therefore they ﬂout all the
standards by which drama has been judged for many
centuries. They should rather be judged by their own
convictions-presence ofpoetic imagery, dreamy vision
and essentially static atmosphere.

with strange accents and costumes were designed in a
strange fashion. Apparently, it was against the
propagandi st exploitation ofreligion and the growing
human tendency o 1 hati ng each other. Yet, deep down
it proves to be a mysterious anti -religion pl ay with an
excess ofatheististic theme against religious adherence.

The abundance of violence and tears was intended to
produce a cathartic effect on the audience, it was at best
funny. The pl aywright's ambition of including
everything from Shakespeare to Beckett, ﬁom

Upanishads and vedas to Harishankar Parsai and
Dharmveer Bharti makes a mess of the play. Hate
Kishanlal slogan and theme was so much used and that
it lost its force.
Although the play provided some f1 ne comic
moments and scenes including the presence of a ghost
and a popular Rafi song ; all this did not compensate the
utter holfowness ofthe play. Characters were unable to
explain their actions, thoughts or feelings. Kishanlal
directed by Alakhnandan, therefore will be best enjoyed
by those who believe that obscurity has its own reward.
However, technical excellence was in evidence with
superb light effects, useful stage-setting and all -round
performance of good acting by the pl ayers . But i nspite
ofthese good points, ifthe reaction ofthe spectators is
any criterion, Kishanlal was a failure.

Absurd dramas are critiques of non-sensical
language spoken in daily life, emphasising psychological
realism rather than outward appearance of human
existence. The lack of faith in the existence ofa rational
and well -ordered universe is obvious in an absurd play
and thus can be explained for the rejection ofa rational
plot-construction or fully understood characters.
Though the theatre of the absurd spent its force
by 1965, it still attracts and inﬂuences playwrights,
Sudeep B annerjee being one such dramatist. Kishanlal
is a strange play with a bizarre setting and suffocating
smoky atmosphere where dialogues were delivered

(67)

