A Glimpse of'l‘heatre Extension Programmes by Nata Bundele
Theatre in S arguja
Bright possibilities ofChildren
Sujay Mishra

(Kalawarta, Bhopal-90-9l)
adaptation of P. L. Deshpande's Marathi play-Vitthal
To Ala-Alatranslated by Rahul B arpute. it is a hillatious
comedy. Fantasy begins as the Lord Vi tthal appears in
ﬂesh and blood in one of his numerous temples after
standing statueque for ages. No one among the devotees
could see him except a blind. Tired of inaction, Lord
B itthal asks his devotees to get Him some work. The
devotees are ﬂabbergasted. Lord Vitthal's assidous
convincing does not cut much ice with them. Even after
being convinced about the Lord V itthal as Lord Vitthal ,
the devotees offer very specious though, comical
. excuses to allievi ate the ennui ofthe God. Disappointed,
Lord Vi tthal returns to the blind man only to hear more
bad news; the blind man, whom the Lord had restored
vision, returns the eyes, lest it might jeopardise his
begging. An exacerbated Lord returns to statueque and
devotees, as usual chant Bhaj ans with same devotion.
The play has immense potential to tickle the senses of
actors, audiences and expose the hollowness of the
middle class.

Under the theatre extension programme Nata
Bundele organised a forty-days workshop in Ambikapur
with the co-operation of local group Vinyas.
Alakhnandan directed three plays with children and
adults. The workshop was devoted to the memory of
noted ﬁlm-maker G. Arvindan.
First play Andher Nagari is a satire on the
British Raj. The beauty ofthis much-enacted play was
that the participating children not only imbibed the true
spirit of Bhaitendu Hari sh Chandra's creation but also
ably presented with amazing imagination and physical
skill. The play's canvas is vast enough to leave room
for improvisation and introduction of new ideas. The
director used the i nnovati veness afforded by the play to
make the actors comfortable with their roles and the
audience astir by the presentation.
Sarveshwar Dayal S axena's play Lakh Ki Nak is
a. masterpiece writing for children. The playwright is
well-versed with the psychology of children which is
evident in the piquant situations, punching dialogues
interspersed with enthralling music and meanigful
poetry. The play depicts corruption and its evil effects
on the society without sounding didectic. As many as
17 children took part in the play and each played the
assinged role of the pleasant surprise of the audience
and possibly the director.

In the theatre extension programme all the
participants were almost new to theatre . With the sheer
dint of devotion and hardwork they were able to get
moulded in the shape Alkhnandan wanted to give them.
(Extract by Rakesh Dixit)

Third play Bhaye Prakat Kripala is the Hindi

(70)

