THE REPERTORY
The Chorus Repertory Theatre, established
in April 1976, at lrnphal, in the small hill
state of Manipur, in north-eastern India,
has set a model for a distinctive Kind of
Indian theatre in which old ritualistic and
dance traditions peculiar to the region are
used to proiect themes that are traditional
and modern at the same time. The folk
traditions of Manipur derive their strength
from the mingling of the Vigorous, earthy
and rhythmic tribal forms and the more
Sinuous and lyrical forms of the plainsfolk
and the religious miSSionaries who came in
from neighbouring TCSthS. While the
tribals bring to their forms traces of a
raCial memory of battles and hunting and
the clearing of the forest, the later religious
culture rooted in the values of more stable
times celebrates the loves of Radha and
Krishna, and finds in their sacred love a
symbolic manifestation of the harmony
that they see at the core of life. The muSic,
the strange instruments, the drums, the _

(1981), a short claSSical play in Sanskrit,

Chorus used a whole range of traditional
theatric deVices to weave around the
simple episode from the old epics a rich
tapestry of forms and gestures and
musical expreSSion

THE DIRECTOR
Ratan Thiyam believes in the expressive

charge of Visuals drawn from his traditions.
He tries to relate the traditional
expreSSions however to the matrix of their
original environment before using them in
his work. He is more interested in the
training process through which the actor
enters into the sowces of the traditional
forms than in the performance proper, The
training system that he has constructed on
the baSis of the traditional methods has to
do more With absorption of movements to
the point where they can re-emerge as a
rnaturer flexibility of the body and the
v0ice at the same time, than with mere
mastery of skills.

dance movements, the rich oral‘ narrative

patterns, all bear the burden of the two
parallel traditions.

THEIR PLAYS
Ratan Thiyam, son of one of the old
masters of the Rasa, the best known of the
Manipur sacred dances, has had his
training in theatre at the National School

of Drama, from where he returned to
Manipur to create a fascinating
combination of the values of modern
theatre and the Manipuri traditions. The
Chorus Repertory Theatre, under his
leadership, supports itself by running a
small fishery and poultry farm, and
rehearses in a hut studio. For most of its
productions, Chorus goes back to popular

folk tales of the region. In Shanarembi
Chaishra (1977), a beautiful, poor and
innocent girl fails a victim to the intrigues
of a highly sophisticated court, and her
stepmother's wiles to promote the

prospects of her stepsister, who looks
closely alike, proving in the process the
fragility of innocence. In Uchek
Langmeidong (1979) the word of birds
and the world of human beings are
brought together to underscore the

cruelty inherent in human relations. The
complicated pattern of battles and

warriors and blood feuds and intrigues in
Khamba Yelhou (1980) leaves its warrior
hero Purernba a social outcast, exploited
by the rulers and masters and left
destitute at the end. In Leima Yenglingei
Khuna Kaba (1981), another complicated
story serves as an exposure of corruption
rooted in civil society, with corruption
growing into religion and becoming a
natural duty ultimately. ln Urubhangarn

ठ OPUS

REPERTORY THEATRE
URIPOK HAWBAM DEWAN LANE
IMPHAL 795001 INDIA

Courtesy
Sangeet Natak Akaderni

