NORTH ZONE
THEATRE FESTIVAL
1987
The North Zone Theatre Festival (Natya Samaroh

1987) forms part of the programme ‘Scheme of assistance to
Young Theatre Workers, entering into the fourth year of

operation launched by _the‘t§ange_eth_lfla_tak_ Akademi, New
Delhi. The programme is operated on the basis of State—wise
divisions of the country into four Zones.
The broad objective of the programme is to support
and sustain the creative efforts and energies of young enterprising theatre workers with a view to helping the experi-

mental segment of the theatre activities. This was sought to be
achieved by encouraging young directors to take up experi-

mental productions which seek inspiration in the traditional/
folk theatre forms, and thus through a process of artistic
cross fertilisation with modern sensibilities help contemporary
theatre assimilate the heritage of the past. There is ample
evidence to indicate the existence of such theatre activity
involving serious

established and not

effort

by

many

theatre

workers

so establised. But the lack,

both

however, of

adequate resources to support such work-being primarily of an
experimental nature involving high ﬁnancial and artistic risks
makes it expedient that this potential and fruitful activity
should receive sustenance on a continuing basis. Competent
and experienced individual theatre directors and their groups
are

identiﬁed and

those

selected are

offered

substantial

ﬁnancial assistance to cover the cost ot the productions.
The North Zone Festival will enable the theatre lovers
of J&K in general and Jammu in particular to see a body of
new experimental work originating under a common programme in different language areas of the counrty viz. Delhi,
U. P., Himachal and Chandigarh and hold discussions on
them as well. Such an exposure will be a fascinating experience for many, but: for the more serious segment of the

auditnce, the Theatre Festival Will hopefully help in crystalising some of these thoughts on styles, of theatre which are
indigenous in character and firmly rooted in the Indian soil,
both in inspiration and execution.
i

The J&K Academy of Art Culture and Languges has
great pleasure in getting associated with such a venture and
in hosting the North Zone'I‘heatre Festival-87 which will help
to promote the national Cultural Unity.

