A FEW WORDS. ABOUT US
Twenty-fourth September, Nineteen hundred and seventy-two, we are back again
with our latest production CHOPEl ADALAT CHOLCHE.

Originally this play is adapted

from SHANTATA COURT CHALU AHE written in Marathi by Shri Vijay Tendulkar, a
noted dramatist. This Marathi play has been very aptly translated into Bengali script
by Shri Nitish Sen. This is a good translation which has Sustained the originality for
which this play is very famous. We have tried most to give you the best of our
performance, as in the past, and hope it will entertain you all through.

Cultural activity is considered to be the very basis on which the whole civilization
depends.

This important aspect has been given new dimension by different groups and

agencies of this mankind.

Many have dedicated their life and energy for the upliftrnent

of culture through different times and ages. But side by side many factors have
jeopardised and aggarvated the smooth and healthy functioning by way of constant confrontation. For fulﬁlling selﬁsh aims it has been given distorted and ugly face which,
in fact, is a negation and a departure from the essential principles which govern culture.

This sort of hypocritic mental attitude should be denounced in absolute terms by all the

lovers of cultural heritage. Culture is a sacred aspect in our way of life.
it represents our socio-economic environment in and around us.
deliberate motive of attaining limited standards are dangerous.

In actual fact

Distortions, with the
It apparently, turns

into an immaterial, aimless ends which has no relevance with culture in this present day
society. But still we see this type of aimless approaches Operating from different quarters

with different motives.
Like other cities, in Delhi also, we have the opportunity to witness the various cultural
activities that come up from different organisations and units in different times. Though

this increased interest in cultUral involvement is getting momentum steadily, but still,
one has to admit that performing of dramas or any other cultural activities
regularly, or at intervals, in Delhi involves numerous problems which can actually be

overcome with great difficulty. One has to note in disgust that though the performance
and the standards of these activities has shown marked improvement, but still the organisers ﬁnd it too difficult to ﬁll in the audience to the packed capacity. It rarely happens
with any amateur organisations to sell all the tickets in the auditorium without any push
sales. In fact, one has to pursue the sales of tickets quite earlier to the show and make
huge publicity through different medias to enhance the demand which, in fact, is otherwise
quite negligible. One has to take all these factors into consideration before going for
any new ventures.

