। take this opportunity to appraise you the activities of 1971 of our unit in a nutshell.
As you may be aware, that our last production MANUSHER ADHIKARE won applaud and
gained tremendous popularity. The main cause behind its success and popularity lies

mainly due to its being the successful progressive and realistic play having skill in individual acting, direction and team work.

For this, we received kind appreciation and praise

from the critics of the local Newspapers and journals and from the people of Delhi at
large. It was a landmark for NOBODOY GOSTHI. Actually this is for the first time

since any amateur club of Delhi has ever attempted and performed this difficult and, complex
play successfully.

We had the distlnction of having unitedly overcoming a lot. of cornpli-

cated problems i.e. huge casting, complexities in production, difficult setting and . lighting

etc. which came in our way.

This difficult situation was overcome only with the united

and untiring efforts of our Club members whose cooperation and dedicated service went a

long way in

making MANUSH ER ADH IKARE a success.

After MANUSH ER AD H IKARE we never looked back and our next produCti‘on was
CAMBODIA which was performed during the last Durga Puja Celebrations in various
parts of Delhi. Cambodia, too, became very popular and we had to perform 20 shows

along with lTlHASHER KATHGARAI, another popular play of NABODOY GOSTHI.

Due

to persistent public demand, we had the achievement of performing record number of
shows which, in fact, was quite encouraging. We are getting increased interest and

enthusiasm in performing our forthcoming plays because most of our plays are liked by the
different sections of people to a greater extent.

more better plays during the years to come.

We hope to present to you more and

I

We are also glad and indebted to the various organisations and individuals
have extended their hand of cooperation in making our ventures successful.

who

Lastly, I thank you all who have made it convenient to assemble here at this
auditorium to witness this play. I sincerely hope our efforts will be successful and you
all will like this play. I cherish further cooperation from you in this matter
in the
near future. I also thank the advertisers and different well wishers who have cooperat
ed
with us at various stages.

.

B.P. Deb

New Delhi,
General Secretary

24th Sept., 1972

NABODOY GOSTHI

