CHOPE ! ADALAT CHOLCE
by—Nitish Sen
An adaptation in Bengali from the play entitled “Shantata Court Chalu Ahe”
written in Marathi by Vijay Tendulkar

A theatrical troupe Jagriti Sanghai'iiad come to perform their shows in a remote
place with Mr and Mrs Kasikar as the leaders”. of this troupe. Miss Leela Banare, the
leading female artist, plays a pivotal character in this play. The whole story revolves
round her. In an attempt for a good pastime, as the troupe had sufﬁcient time, it was

decided to have a rehearsal of a “Mock Court".

After prolonged consultations, the

accused was chosen from amongst them. ३ ‘§he was Miss Banare allegedly accused of
illegal pregnancy. Mr Sukhatme, another artiste from this troupe, was chosen to act as

the Prosecutor as well the Defence Counsel.

Naturally, Mr Kasikar, the leading man,

was to act as the Judge and the rest of the actors as witnesses. The entire proceedings
of the "Mock Court" initially started with a brisk note amidst interruptions and jokes are

theatrically mounted.

But soon the sitdatio‘n changed abruptly. All the members of

the party started indulging in personal

connected with the “Mock Court".

ac—‘cu‘sation of Miss Banare.

This was in no way

Just forgetful about the actual theme of the rehearsal,

the cross examination of the different witnesses started. This, though not meant,
revealed the scandals associated with Miss Banare in her personal life. The result was

depressing. The naked exposition of the! suppressed feeling of ill-will generated off the
stage, gets its way through the proceedings of the imaginary court.

The different

witnesses come and go with the only object of bringing out Miss Banare's scandals to
light. This, how projected and mounted in the theatrical performance, is to be seen in
interesting and tense atmosphere.

C

हैं i । i E ३. . .

.

'

‘ l

D RAMATI s . P ERSoNA E
Mr.

Kasikar
Mrs. Kasikar

Balu Rokre
Mr. Karnik '
Mr.

Pongshe

Mr.

Sukhatme

Mr. Samanta
Miss Leela Banare

J aya nta Das
Sipra Ghosh

.

' ' ३' i "‘- I '
3’" 'vr" '
. .9:

'

Subir Sen Sharma
८ 3 Bimal Sett
Tapas Chanda
Suproti k Bose

Swapan Ghosh
Flora Bose

Directed by 'S'hieikti Mukherjee

Produced by-Nabodoy Gosthi

