भावाभिव्यक्तियों का प्रमुखतम संप्रेषक माना जाता था चाहे बो सुखांत
नाटकों में अभिनय कर रहा हो या दुखांत नाटकों में । महिला चरित्र कम
उम के लड़कों के द्वारा अभिनीत किये जाते थे, इसलिये हर कंपनी के

भास ऐसे 2 …3 युवा अभिनेता होते थे।

लंदन को नाट्यशालाओँ और अभिनेता पूरे पाप में चर्चित और
प्रतिष्ठित थे । हौलैंड के लोगों के सरथ-साथ यहाँ ढेरों विदेशी यात्री भी
आया करते थे। रोज़ औसतन 2 …3 हजार दर्शक यहाँ पहुँचते थे।
दरबारी, कानून के विद्यार्थी, सैनिक, मज़दूर, मध्यवर्गीय महिलायें और
चीर उचबककों रने लेकर वेश्याओं तक , यह दर्शक समूह विविधतापूर्ण
था। इम्हें खडे हो कर नाटक देखने के लिये वहुत थोडी स्री कोंमत
चुकानी पड़ती थी । बैठने को थोडी ज्यादा । सबसे महँगे छोटे…छोटे निजी
कक्ष जिन्हें क्वतकैड्ड त्वबर्डष्ठ कहा जाता था। प्रस्तुति के दौरान छाई
मध्यान्तर नहीं होता था - थिएटर के अंदर ही वाइन, बियर, सूखे
फल-मेस्ने , ताश आदि बेचे जाते थे । तब नाटक के दर्शन उतने ही मुक्त हैं

शोर-गुल करने वास्ते होते थे, जितने आज़ खेलों के दर्शक होते हैं। इन
दर्शकों कों शॉत और एकाग्रचित्त बनाये रखने को जिम्मेदारी नाटयालेख

के गठन और अभिनेताओं के कौशल पर निर्भर करती थी ।

play. Shakespeare wrote many of his plays while
maintaining such a schedule. To a degree, the style of a
text determined the style of the planning. Elizabethan
actors, no doubt, dealt with the rhythms of dramatic
verse more readily then their modern counterparts, since

poetry was a chief medium of the contemporary theatre
as it no longer is. In a theatre where words were so
important, a strong and supple voice must have been one

of the first requirements of an actor. The face was
expected to be the actor's chief visual medium of
communication in both comedy and tragedy. Female

roles were played by boy actors; so, at any given time a
company must have sought to keep two or three boy
players to play females.
London playhouses were one of the main sights of
London and English players had a high reputation. They
drew many visitors from abroad as well as from amongst
the English people. Perhaps between two and three
thousand people visited on an average day. Plays were

shown in the afternoon. The
gentry was full of legal students,
soldiers, labourers, women from
the

middle

class, thieves,

prostitutes a wide range of
' iहाँहुँहै audience. Tbstandintheyardthey
'दृ

ड्डोंहँभुरंड्डू.‘T\

7-; had to pay a small fee, for a
पां galleries a larger fee and for
‘i' ,7private
;boxes called "Lords
च
Rooms" the fee was even higher.

दृ;77:“!- \

There
.
were no interrnissions and
। wine, beer, nuts, playing cards
were sold in the theatre by

‘ , vendors during the performance
"३5३३९-:41;14;,5'ईहे दृ
I ‘76,!gr;
We.“

- g.

[In
.1- ८ 7
,वि

Audiences were much more free

'३3३८-८3
जा."- . .-.- -:-:., and expresswe then srmilarto the

i:'हु sports spectators of the
दुहु हैं 'की contemporary age. Like modern
’ " "3 sports spectators. Keeping the

"_'3३३३३३'३'८'३८५८-३८५

' audience quiet and attentive was

गृ सां भा९९"जी-र१र
है;
३

again a matter of skill of the
हुँ०6माँ0त्मा6अं5 and the power of the

‘ 5-:.

; फैरूरेंplay.
7 कि ‘7;

