अदला-बदली के लिए बूथ को लंदन आमान्वित किया और इसका

परिणाम भी मिला, दौरे को अतीत: कामयाबी प्राप्त हुईं। बूथ के साथ
इआगो व आंथेलो की भूमिकाओं को अदला-बदली जेम्स है आं नील ने
भी की। कालान्तर में बूथ ने सुनिल के बेटे यूजीन' औ नील द्वारा
लिखे नाटक लॉन्ग डंज़ जर्नी इनटू नाहीं में मूर ( आंथेलो) के
चरित्र-चित्रण की ‘धूरि-भूरि प्रशंसा की ।

4 दिसम्बर सन् 2007, डॉत्मार वेयर हाऊंक्ष, owed में प्रारंभ हुए
माइकेल ग्रैम्नडेज़ निर्देशित आंथेली में च्चिटेल एजोफोर ने आंथेलो,

एवान मैकग्रैगर ने इआगो और कैली पीली ने डंस्तीमौना को भूमिकाएँ
निभाई। इण्टरनेट को मेहरबानी से 2000 पाछंण्ड की ०५३। भ <1 पर बिकी

टिकटों चाली इस प्रवृति में सिर्फ एजोफोर को प्रशंसा मिली, बाकी
सभी अभिनेताओं की आलोचना हुई । इस भूमिका के लिए उम्हें लॉरेन्स
अंलिन्दियर पुरस्कार भी मिला ।

सत् 2009 के फरवरी रने मार्च तक हास्य भूमिकाओं के लिए ख्याति
प्राप्त अभिनेता लेनी हैरी, नॉर्दन ब्रॉडसाइड के वैस्ट यौर्कशायर
प्लोहणिस, लीडस में मंचित होने चाली प्रवृति में शीर्ष भूमिका
निभाएँगे ।

biography of Olivier, tickets for the stage production were
notoriously hard to get). The film version still holds the
record for the most Oscar nominations for acting ever
given to a Shakespeare film -Olivier, Finlay, Maggie
Smith, (as Desdernona) and Joyce Redrnan (as Emilia,
lago's wife) were all nominated for Academy Awards.
Olivier was among the last white actors to be greatly
acclaimed as Othello, although the role continued to be

played by such performers Paul Scofield at the Royal
National Theatre in 1980; Anthony Hopkins in the BBC
Shakespeare television production on videotape (1981);
and Michael Gambon in the London stage production
directed by Alan Ayckbourn in 1990.
When Patrick Stewart played Othello at the Shakespeare
Theater Company in Washington, DC. he portrayed the
Moor as a white man with the other characters played by
black actors.
Actors have alternated the roles of lago and Othello in
productions to stir audience interest since the nineteenth
century. TWo of the most notable examples of this role
swap were William Charles Macready and Samuel
Phelps at Drury Lane (1873) and Richard Burtion and
John Neville at the Old Vic Theatre (1955). When Edwin
Booth's tour of England in 1880 was not well attended,
Henry Irving invited Booth to alternate the roles of Othello
and Iago with him in London. The stunt renewed interest

in Booth's tour. James O'Neil also alternated the roles of
Othello and Iago with Booth, with the latter's
complimentary appreciation of O'Neill's interpretation of
the Moor being immortalized in O'Neill's son, Eugene's
play Long Day's Journey Into Night. Othello opened at the
Donrnar Warehouse in London on the 4th of December,
2007, directed by Michael Grandage, with Chiwetel
Ejiofor as Othello, Ewan Mc Gregor as Iago and Kelly
Reilly as Desdernona. Despite tickets selling as high as
2010 on web-based vendors, only Ejiofor was praised by
critics, winning the Laurence Olivier Award for his
performance; with McGregor and Reilly's performances
receiving largely negative notices.

Paul Robeson as Othello and Peggy Ashcroft as Desdemo
na at the

Savoy Theatre, London, 1930

From Febuary to March 2009, actor and comedian Lenny
Henry will take the lead in a Northern Broadsides
production atthe West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds.

