mena banerjee
admires the dedication
Actively supported by her husband
Amitava Mukheriee. she has \irtually
singlehandedly revived this dance style that
“existed” in Bengal since the Vedic era,
“Women would extract Sam and perform
the Gandhana-Nritya in temples here."
said Profrssor Manabendu Bandopadhyay.
general secretary of the Asiatic Society,
Kolkata who graced the occasion as the
guest of honour along with Professor
Rabiranian Chattopadhyay. mayor-incouncil. govettunent of West Bengal.
According to the latter. the coinage of
words like “NrityaGeet” or “Naach-Gaan"
indicate that dance enioyed a higher place
than music in Bengal once This needs to
be investigated further.
The dance concert, spread over two
days (5 and 4 July) at lCCR‘s Saryajit Ray

Auditorium, however; turned out to be a
Pandit Shlvkumar Shanna and Ajoy Chakrabarty handing over the cheque.

H

'

hand

The umni of South Point School and
Patha Bhatan organised a mega event on
ZBJune at Nazrul Mancha to raise funds
."or a cause, “Standing with Nepal". Among
the mega stars of the music world who
graced the evening and participated in the

concert were legendary santoor maestro
Pandit Shivkumar Shanna, filmdom‘s
veteran songsuess Kavita Krishnamurti, top
ranking vocalists Pandit Aioy Chakrabarty
.rnd Ustad Rashid Khan, table tennis
exponent Tanmoy Bose, popular singers
Babul Supriyo, Anushesh Anandil, Akriti
Kakkar and lndranil Sen, and young Suha
Khan. The aim of the concert was to adopt

and rebuild “Bhaktapur”, a village 15 km
away from eastern fringes of Kathmandu,
capital of Nepal, which was destroyed
during the recent earthquakes.
Initiated by nationally acclaimed
ﬁlmmaker and South Point School alumni
Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury, Tanmoy Bose,
lndranil Sen, Maitrayee Ray, PRR of the
Nepal Tourism Board, and several others,
funds were collected funds and handed
over to the Consulate General of NepaL
Chandra Kumar Ghimte. Somnarh Pyne,
secretary of Freed, an NGO, said the

Nepal Tourism Board had agreed with the
proposal of adopting 20 earthquakestruck
artisan families of Bhaktapur: There is a
plan to organise an exhibition in
September where Nepalese artisans will be
invited to display theirhandicrafts for sale
वृ x

r "१3४३3हुँ?" r) /Oy"l _ are

and thus create an alternative format
of fundraising. Also, the Alliance Frant‘aise
du Bengal has shown an interest in and
support for the initiative. The presence of
their representatives at the concert left
positive vibes. But the soulful renderings
by the rnaestros remained the best part of
the event and a packed auditorium kept
asking for more.

Pio

'

work

in this era of pseudo modernism, one was
pleasantly surprised to ﬁnd a grand event
to mark 150 years of one of the tnost
revered Kali temples of Kolkata, a city
whose name originated from the word
“Kali-lshetra". The Nisrarini Kali Temple
Dance Concert was presented by
Gaudiya Ntitya Bharati under
दृ

kaleidoscope of varied forms like Goudiya
Nritya (performance and direction: Mahua
Mukherjee, co—direction: Satabdi Acharya

and Banani Chakraborty; music composed
by Amitava Mukhetjee, Ayan Mukherjee
and Shubhadip Chakraborty). Odissi
(composed by Sharmila Biswas and
presented by her group), Kathakali (by
Kalamandalam Goutam), B
(Abhay Pal), Kathak (Paramita Maitra) and
Kandyan Dance (Buddhi Edirisinghe).
Almost all items stood out for their
inspired presentation and treat
choreographic

designs.

Annual fest

ankusba, module in three of his hands and
blessing the world with the other, Anklets
adorning his feet, he danced cbaati‘s,
bbmman‘s. in joy, to the rhytlun of the
mardala He was shown in typical Odissi
postures (stbanakas and bbangis). Based
on Taalmaliku and framed in the
distinguished style of the late Guru Deba
Prasad 035 (the composer and a
representative of Gotipua Odissi culture).
this piece was a visual delight. This was
choreographed by Krislmendu Roy.
Next was Sluirigaar Pallavi. a pure dance
item in which raga Mobana is elaborated
througr music. body postures and intricate
footwork; all corrurrencing
slowly and
gracefully

' v

Odissi — Chauka and Tribbangi. The card-

24july: Geeta Bithika Academy of Music

characters showed the rigidity of Chauka

and Dance organises an evening
of Monsoon Melodies. featuring Sohini

cards later tear their masks offto celebrate

Bharati University and dean of the
faculty of ﬁne arts. She had initially
learnt Bharatanatyam and her extensive
research work under the guidance of
gurus like Bratindranath, Sashi Mahato,
Narottam Sanyal, Gambhir Singh Mudha,
Mukund Das Bhattacbarya and other
practrtioners of the Chhau, Nachni, Kushan
and Kirtaniya traditions styled her as an
exponent of Gaudiya Nritya.
मृदृव्र/दृद्भुदुक्लग्नचंदुम्पूट्सग़प्ल m

dramas The first, based on Oscar Wilde's
Selfish Giant, featured the tiny tots of
Nikkon in its Bengali version, ‘liingshute
Doityo" The pie-recorded music was the
tnost interesting aspect of this delightful
presentation. The other one was Thsber
Desb. Inspired by iewis Carroll's Alice in
Wonderland, it represents a nation liiing
in the state of imagination This
adaptation, tried out by Nikkon, was
completely based on the basic steps of

human beings, used the other ﬂowing
steps and movements of the dance. The
the breaking of titles. The emotive appeal
of this change was very touching.
As is their ritual, Nikkon felicitated
eminent dancers Guru Anita Mallick, Guru
Mimbandhu Bhattacharya, Guru Poushali
Mukherjee and Dr Pushpita Mukherjee.

researcher and teacher at Rabindra

mﬁ‘mGy'. "त्-यहाँ"

and culminating in a crescendo.
Composed by Guru Poushali Mukherjee.
this, too. was choreographed by Roy.
Then there were two captivating dance

and the Prince and his friend, the two

the stewardship ofProfessor १ '
Mahua Mukherjee,
“fountainhead” of the Gaudiya
dance of Bengal. With an MSc
and PhD in Botany, she is a

A scene from Tashet Desh.

Young Odissi exponent and (iuru
Krisbnendu Roy commands unbridled
commendatioth for his indefatigable effort
to make the Garden Reach area a hub of .
dance. Each year, his organiution. (ianden
Reach Nikkon ()rissi Centre. presents a
captivating show featuring his students
from the junior. middle and senior groups.
This year was no exception and the day
was 5 _luly and the venue a packed
Rabindra Sadan.
The evening remained focused on
Odissi dance items starting with (ianesh
Tandava — An ode to Shri Ganesha.
describing his wonderful fortn and glory.
He was depicted as Ekadantam.
Mabakaqyum and (iajanan with paasba.

‘1‘,“

i

rum

rmwmrtwatr-v—vu. “7777‘srﬁ1wn.-. WM . ., --

30-31July: Weavers Studio Centre For The
Arts and Master Minds organise “Meta
\X’oh Matlab Nahin Thu". a Hindi play
starring Anupam Kher and Neena Gupta
presented by Rakesh Bedi; Sangcet
Kalamandir; ‘ pm?; for tickets.
contact 985004465.

Press Club; 4 pm.
M... ५- 7८- ,

Mondal (tabla-pukbawaj). Abir Singh
(harmonium), Sanieeban Acharya
(manjeera); Sandre Hall: 660 pm.

24July: Sagarika Music launches

Bhattacharya along with Sourabh; Calcutta
c . _ आप का .

26July: Calcutta School of Music presents
Pandit Mohan Singh (vocal) with Biplab

Coming up
“Samanwaya”, a new album of Bengali
songs based on ragas, composed and
sung by classical vocalist Koushik

A kalledoscope of KathakaII-Gaudlya-Odlssl.

Roy Chowdhury (classical meal) with Suiit
Saha (tabla) and Pradip Palit
(hartnoniutn). Asish Kumar Sengupta with
his disciples (Rabmdrasangeet) and
Hridayjeet (Bbajan): Birla Academy: 6 pm.

'झाm r A चं अं…… 3 ~ .दृ

