. ,ldered to be one of Chekhov's most moving and sensitive
.asive pessimism of its era. The play examines the lives of the
_,_ily who live in a provincial garrison town far from Moscow and

iange their unhappy lives. Chekhov used the Prozorov family

३" गुण and despair experienced by the Russians of that era. Since

mdrum lives. As the Head of the family after their father dies,
है ought to be their only hope for a secure future. But he spoils
sters' by marrying Natasha, a greedy and vulgar woman who
, ers to leave their own home. Rather than studying, Andrey
‘9, while Masha, Irina, and Olga fail at jobs, marriage, and

éall their dreams are uniformly shattered, each sister ponders
ने 0 much pain.
The Three Sisters, like Chekhov‘s earlier plays, intertwines
the mundane and the tragic. He focuses on man’s inability
to be happy and his staunch rejection of any promise in
life. The Three Sisters uses a subtle form of indirect action
that, for Chekhov, mirrored real life. If reality is paced in a

certain fashion, Chekhov reasoned, his plays should reflect
that reality.
In 1901 The Three Sisters was presented by the Moscow
Art Theater. Early critics, especially Russian commentators,
interpreted the play as yet another chapter in the ongoing
saga

of

Russian

landowners'

demise.

Other

criticism

focused on a perceived lack of storyline and dramatic
conflict in the work. Scholars have consistently pointed to
the careful construction of the play. While The Three
Sisters may appear static in print, it is an extremely
complicated play to perform. Because The Three Sisters,

like Chekhov's other dramas, called for a performance style
that was less grandiose and more given to inflection and
allusion, a flamboyant production could easily obscure the
intention of Chekhov's work. The noted director, Konstantin
Stanislavski, developed a psychological, introspective
dramatic style appropriate to Chekhov's plays. In later

years The Three Sisters’ depiction of futility caused
Chekhov to be considered a precursor to dramatists of the
Theater of the Absurd.

