Adaptation? Why? The question is a relevant one
when one attempts to root out a masterpiece from its
origin and to ﬁt it in an alien like circumference. But
is the arnbience created only from the geographical,
lingual, and national? From breed and colour only?
Chekhov, for me, provides an enormous prevalence
of this thought. But he was Russian! What then, is
the iota, that with negation to that endemic
inevitability,
explores
uniformity at Russian,
American, French, Asian, German, Spanish and
innumerable other surfaces? Man, his being. His
thirst for ‘being—ness’; this, perhaps, is such an
ultimate state that it causes the basic conception of
society that belongs to man, to humanity. And this
very element forms his basic arnbience. The
plausibility of that circumference is for bigger things.
His motives, his applications, his dreams, intricacies
of life, his desires — their fulfillment or failure - all
establish the universal purport of that very
conception of Man.
Three Sisters could have been staged exactly as it is. Masha could
Irina and Olga could have remained the same Olga and Irina. But
Irina to Anjurn and Olga to Afshan — does this metamorphosis, at
scale of allenness for each other? A little even? Likewise Andrei and ^
and Chandarlal or Tuzenbak or Jahangir and Solyony or Kabir and al
they sound different or separate from each other? Numbers and thi‘
eye makes Chekhov capable of rooting and catching hold of Masha,
any, even the farthest, corner of the universe.

And then emanates the fertility of life — in an extremely a
the recognition of the universal rather than local import of irony in
becomes even more clear within a perspective of more than 60 year
as well as partition, in terms of the breaking of an age-old common
the distances rising up in common psyches and the negation of posit of a harmonious language, rnan’s going on to be, although unwilli ,
fission of the political, religious, social and culture values makes ०
what dreams will remain thereafter and what will remain behind?

