IAN BROWN - Artistic Director
Director in October 1988 and
Ian joined The Traverse Theatre as Artistic
any. He

on भागि the comp

has just completed his ﬁrst highly successful seas

ish writing, directing two of

commissioned a pioneering season of new Scott

“Ines de Castro”, the
the plays himself. Ian also directed John Clifford’s
the Traverse, and
ﬁrst play he commissioned on taking up the post at
“Ines de

which along with
Michele Celeste’s “Hanging the President”
Traverse’s work at this
Castro” provided an important showcase for the
enormously acclaimed
year’s Edinburgh Festival. Both productionswere
ge First Award at this
and “Hanging the Presiden '” won a coveted Frin
at TAG Theatre in
year’s Edinburgh Festival. Ian was Artistic Director
of work including
Glasgow for ﬁve years, where he produced a wide range
now the Traverse
commissioning new plays from Anne Marie de Mambro,
er of highly
Writer in Residence and John Clifford. He directed a numb
eo and
“Rom
successful adaptations of Shakespeare’s works, including
Night’s Dream” in
Juliet”, “As you like It”, “Othello” and “A Midsummer

on producaddition to directing more contemporary plays, also working
interest in
tions of Dario Fo’s “Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay!” and “Piaf”. Ian’s
Theatre in
new writing began when he was director of The Cockpit Youth
or at the
Direct
ate
Associ
as
London and were further developed in his post
amme
progr
Theatre Royal Stratford East, where he initiated a community
with the Black and Asian Communities.
JOHN CLIF 'ORD - Writer

Based in Edinburgh, John is one of the Traverse’s most popular writers,
and has earned an avid following since his ﬁrst Fringe First winning production “Losing Venice”. Other work for the Traverse includes “Lucy’s
Play”, “Playing with Fire” and this year the highly acclaimed “Ines de
Castro” directed by Ian Brown. John also worked with Ian during his time
at TAG Theatre where he adapted “Romeo and Juliet” for the Company.
John’s other work includes “Heaven Bent, Hell Bound” for ATC, “How
Like an Angel” for Theatre Co-op and “The Magic Theatre” for Winged
Horse, playing at the Traverse this Autumn. John’s talents however are
manifold. His radio credits include “Dessert Places” for Radio Scotland
and “Ending Time” and “Losing Venice” for Radio 3. A gifted translator
and acknowledged British expert on Golden Age Spanish Drama, his most
recent work includes translations and adaptations ofLorca’s “The house of
Bernada Alba” forEdinburgh’s Royal’Lyceum, Calderon’s “Schism in England” for The National Theatre Studio, and De Roja’s “Celestina” for The
National Theatre.
GREGORY NASH - Director (movement)

A maior ﬁgure in choreography and
collaborativeperformance, Gregory’s
previous experience includes work with
some of Britain’s most innovative
Dance Companies. A former member of Mantis, and Sue Mclennan’s

Occasional Dance companies, Greg
formed his own group in 1984. The
four major works of the company,

including “Momentum Rush” directed
by Ian Brown, as well as shorter and
mixed programmes have toured
throughout Britain and to France,

Belgium and the United States. In
1987 The Gregory Nash Group was

