presented with one of the ﬁrst Digital Dance Awards, and Gregory himself
has received several British and Scottish Arts Council Awards to study
dance in New York. During 1990 Gregory will choreograph and perform
in a new project, collaboratingwith video artist Lee Coxand composer Peter
Salem. The show is to be premiered during Glasgow’s European City of
Culture celebrations in 1990, before embarking on a national tour of
Britain.
PETER SALEM - Composer

Peter was the Musical Director at Bristol Old Vic from 1986-1987 where
amongst other productions he composed and performed in Roger Lee’s
version of “Julius Caesar”. He has worked for Tabard Theatre Company
as a composer and was musical director at The Everyman Theatre,
Cheltenham from November 1987 to January 1988. Peter has composed
for Footloose Dance Company and is a regular musician with London Contemporary Dance Tours. He is currently working with the children’s
story-telling project at The National Theatre, on a production called "The
Magic Carpet”. During 1990 Peter will be working with choreographer
Gregory Nash and video artist Lee Cox on a new collaborative project to be
premiered during Glasgow’s City of Culture Celebrations.
LUCY WELLER - Designer

Lucy trained as a designer at the Riverside Studios and has gone on to work
with a number of major British Theatre Companies. Her credits include
designs for Theatre de Complicite, York Theatre Royal, The Royal Court
and Opera Factory. She was also the designer for the highly successful
“Conquest ofthe South Pole” at The Traverse Theatre in 1988, which later
transferred to the Royal Court Theatre in London.
MIKE LANCASTER - Lighting Designer
Mike is a free lance lighting designer and has worked with a variety of major
Scottish Theatre Companies. His designs include “Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay!"
and “Piaf” for TAG Theatre, “Richard 1H” and “The Alchemist” for
Citizen’s Theatre, Glasgow, “No Mean City” for 7:84 Theatre Company,
Scotland, “City Lights” on tour, and “Gillespie” for Borderline Theatre
Company.
JAMES DURRELL - Magwitch/Pocket

James trained at The Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama, and
went on to study at post—graduate level
in The London Contemporary Dance
School. He has performed with a large
number of English and Scottish
theatre companies, workingon abroad
spectrum of shows, from Rogers and
Hammerstein
to
Lorca and
Shakespeare. His theatre work
includes “Savage Brittania” for The
National Theatre Studio, Marlowe’s
“Faustus” for The Tron Theatre,

Glasgow, Lorca’s “The Public” for
Stratford East Theatre and “Comedy
of Errors” for Bristol Old Vic. His
most recent work has been at the
Citizen’s Theatre, Glasgow where he
performed in Arthur Miller’s “The

