work for both
Crucible” and Shakespeare’s “Macbeth”. James has done
al dance
the BBC and Scottish Television. He was also part of the 'spec1
uof the F rench revol
project for the spectacular bicentennial celebrations
year.
this
tion, which took place in Paris on the 14th of July
ALASTAIR GALBRAITH - Joe Gargery/Mr Wemmick
of Music and
Alastair is another graduate of The Royal Scottish Academy
s Dickens,
Drama. His previous associations with the Traverse and Charle
the
during
Pole"
South
include appearing in Karge’s “Conquest of the
Tale
“A
Traverse’s 1988 Season and more recently performing in Dickens’
of Two Cities” at The Citizens Theatre, Glasgow. Further work at The
Citizen’s Theatre includes Arthur Miller’s “The Crucible” and Shakespeare’s
“Macbeth”. Alastair has also toured schools with TAG Theatre productions. He has worked for the BBC and Scottish Television, appearing in the
successful detective series “Taggart” and featuring in the ﬁlm version of
“Conquest of the South Pole”, recently screened at this year’s Edinburgh
Film Festival.
GRACE GLOVER - Miss Havisham

Grace trained as an actress at The Royal Scottish Academy of Music and
Dramain Glasgow and The Jaques1e Coq Theatre School in Paris. She has
appeared with almost
every
major Scottish Theatre Company
in a great variety of roles, performing classic, contemporary, serious
and comic threatre with equal
prowess. Her most recent credits
include “The Snow Queen”

and

Moliere’s “The Hypocondriak” at
The Royal Lyceum Theatre,
Edinburgh and “Asking for It” and
“Politics or Blood” at the Traverse
Theatre’s new Scottish writing
season earlier this year. Her
numerous television appearances
include “Behind the Circle” for
Scottish Television, “The Justice Game” for BBC Television and “The War

Horse” for BBC Radio.
HENRY GRAHAME-SMI’I‘H - Second Pip

Henry was only eighteen when he ﬁrst
trained with the choreographer of “Great
Expectations” Gregory Nash. He went
on from there to train for three years in
musical theatre at The Guildford School
of Acting. Since completing the course
two years ago, Henry has appeared in
the most enduring and popular
musical shows “The King and I” at
The Everyman Theatre, Cheltenham,
and “The Wizard of Oz”, on a national

tour. His other theatre work includes
“The Island of Doctor Moreau” and
“Peter Pan" at The Theatre Royal,York
and “The Good Doctor” also at Cheltenham. Henry has alsoworked on the
police series “The Bill” for Thames
Television and on a children’s series for TVS.

