HILARY MACLEAN - Mrs Joe/Molly

Hilary has become a regular member of The Traverse Theatre Company,

performing with The Traverse’s 1988 Company in “Prickly Heat” and
“Conquest of The South Pole”, which
transferred to The Royal Court
Theatre in London. This season she

appeared in “Just Frank” by Vince
Foxall, and “Blending In” by Michel
Vinaver as well as John Clifford’s play
“Ines de Castro”. Her other theatre
work includes “Cabaret”, “The Prime

of Miss Jean Brodie” and “The Jungle
Book” for The Brunton Theatre,
Musselburgh, as well as Noel Coward’s
“Trivial Pursuits” for The Royal

Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh. Hilary
has also worked extensively in Television and Radio, featuring in the popular comedy “City Lights” for the BBC
and the successful detective series “Taggart” for Scottish Television. Her
radio credits include “Today We’ll Finish Kea ” and more recently “Ask
no Questions”, both for BBC Radio Four.

JANE MACF'ARLANE - Biddy/Musician
Jane studied at Glasgow’s Royal Scottish Academy ofMusicand Drama and
The Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester. As a classical
musician she has played and travelled
widely with many orchestras and
ensembles, including The Scottish
National Orchestra, The Scottish
Ballet and Scottish Opera Orchestras,
The Scottish Ensemble, Paragon
Ensemble, Sinfonium and Scherzo Trio.

Sincethe original production of“Great
Expectations” she has become involved
with many improvised music and dance
performances all over Britain with The
Tandem Dance Company and The
Gregory Nash Group. During 1990 she
will be performing in Atlantic Driﬂ; with
dancers Gregory Nash and Steven
Petronio, with music by Peter Salem, to be premiered during Glasgow’s
“European City of Culture” celebrations before embarking on a national
tour. Jane plays cello, piano and sings in the group Rachata, whose sound
is a diverse blend of Indian and African rhythm textures, jazz, baroque and
classical styles.
RACHEL OGILVY - Estella

Rachel trained at The Royal Scottish
Academy of Music and Drama. She
launched her career with her performance as Hermia in Shakespeare’s “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” with The
Scottish Chamber Orchestra and has
gone on to portray two of Shakespeare’s
most demanding and diverse female
roles. She played Lady Macbeth at
The Byre Theatre, St Andrews and

