मेएक राति बेटी के सॉप काटि लेत छै। ओकर उपचार 3% समय पर नहि
करबैत अछि । मुदा जखन ओकर मानवीय संवेदना जति छैक ताबत देरी भ
गेल रहै छे I [33le दहेज सँ 3531 लाक के कटिहारी नहि जाएच्चादेंत्त छैक ।
गाछी मे जरैत देसी केदेखिक' ओकर मन :सिंर्शते बिगाड़ जाइत छैक । 3%33
होइत $3 3 हस्ता 33:3 विवाह भ' गेल अछि अश्वा 3% कनिया बनि गेल

अछि। ते जतेक कनियॉ के देखैत अछि ओकर मुँह उघारिक' देखि लैत छैक
आ कहि उसे अवि'-----.: हमर सीता नहि अछि । एहि हेतु ओ क्सेको बेर मारि
खाइल अछि तकर एता नहि । डॉक्टरक कथनानुसार ओकर ई अस्नादर्ति तखनहिं

छुटतैकजखन ओका सीता भेटि जयतैक । मुदा सीता अद्भानल जाए त' कहॉ 37 .7 .7

शैली:एहि नाटक में लोक तथा यथार्थवादी दूनू शैलीक प्रगोग कएल गेल
अछि । उदहरण रूप मेराएकर पृर्वरंग तथा देवकान्तक प्रसंग के देखल जा संकैत

अछि। एहि दूनू प्रसंग के ओहिना राखल गेल अछि जेना एहिठाम कोनो
लोकनाट्य दल करैत अछि । एतबार नहि, आओर कतेको स्थल एहन अछि 3
अपने लोकनिकें लोकनाट्य शैलीक स्मरण कराओत्त । ठीक एकर विपरीत
कोको एहन स्थल अछि 3 यथार्थवादी ढ़ग 3 राखल गेल अछि। .
Playwright and Direction

Mahendra Malangia popularly known as ‘Sir, is the only name
who has devoted his whole life in deepening the root of Maithili
Theatre. Amongst the plays written and directed by him, Okra
Anganak Barahmasa, Kathak Lok, Juayal Kankani, Gam Nai
Sutaiye, Deh par Kothi Khasa Diyau, etc. , have inspired
thousands ofaudience. His plays are based on social and current
issue and day-to-day problems. So far 11 plays, 18 Oneact
plays, 13 Streetplays and 9 Radioplays have been written by

him. All these have been translated into several other languages
and have been performed and broadcasted through radio. Sir has
owned a number of prestigious awards including Prabodh
Sahitya Samman, Rang Ratna. He has also been awarded by

Intenational Theatre Institute. Maithili Ekanki Sangrah, the
book edited by Malangiaji has been published by ‘Sahitya
Akademi’ .
Play — O Khali Muh Dekhai Chhai

Krishna is a middle class man. He renders good education to her
daughter — Sita— who has passed MA. Krishna when makes डा
his mind to get her daughter married, is shocked to see no va.
of education and ability in matter of dowry. He is unable to
overcome the problem. In the meantime his daughter falls prey

of snake biting. By the time his sence wakes him up it is already
delayed. As per tradition, being involved in marriage
negotiation, he is not allowed to attend funeral. On seeing her
३ daughter ending in ﬂames he looses his mental order. He
presumes that his daughter has been married. He is so crazy to
see her daughter that whoever bride he sees, he unveiles and
. looks at her face and utters — she is not my Sita. For such
nuisance he is heated badly manytimes. In doctors opinion, he

can get rid offofthis only when he gets her Sita. But wherefrom
३ Sita can come now!
-मैथिलॉं लोक त्यं

