PURASKAR
The Kingdom of Kosala celebrated an annual festival whereby the King appropriated
an area of land, which he symbolically sowed prior to taking over its ownership,
in a festival of colour and pagaentry. The play opens on one such festival, the
only difference being that this year the owner of the land, Madhulika, does not wish
to accept the gift of money that the king offers her. Once the king and the various
members of his court, which includes many neighbouring princes have left, the tribals
celebrate the festival in their own fashion.
The visiting princes likewise celebrate the festival Drunk and attended to by dasis,
they make fun of Arun, the prince of neighbouring Magodha, who has fallen in
love with Madhulika. The crown prince— Rajeev of Kosala—talks to him of his love
for the girl- The end of the scene sees Arun leaving the palace in search of
Madhulika.

The same night—Arun meets Madhulika and tells her of his love for her.

The girl

spurns him—not knowing what the outcome of love lsetween a simple tribal girl like
her and a rich prince will be. It is only after Arun dea l ts t hot she regrets the reply
she has given him.

Years later—a village scene.

Madhulika has fallen on bad days—poverty stricken and

as yet unmarried—She is the t0pic of conversation of the various peOple of the village

A young child, very attached to her, stays on to hear her stories when the other
depart due to the oncoming rain. Alone with the child Madhulika tells the child
the story of her love for the prince. After the child departs and while she is still
in a nostalgic mood, a stranger arrives asking f'o r shelter.
still very much in love with her.

He is no other than Arun

Through a series of friezes—based on classical Indian sculpture—Arun and Madhulika
express their love for one another.

together.

The Scene develops as they talk of their future

Arun’s ambition is to invade Kosala

and he manages to

Madhulika to ask the king for a piece of land on the frontier.
love

for

Arun

convince

Torn between

her

and her love for her country and as yet undecided, she agrees to go

to the king.

Madhulika asks the king for the land and succeeds in getting it, despite the ministers
suggestions to the contrary. The king waives aside all opposition on the grounds that
Madhulika is the daughter of the late general—Singamitra.
In a scene of mounting tension Madhulika and Arun talk of

their future and

their

conﬂicting opinions of what fortunes the night will bring Madhulika leaves for home
while Arun prepares to lead the attack on Kosala.
Madhulika decides during the course of the night to inform the king of the attack.
She does so and the king manages to thwart the invasion attempt. Arun is captured

and brought before the people of the court. He receives the death sentence and the
answer
king then turns to Madhulika to ask her what she wants as a reward. Her
is simple : “Then I too should receive the death sentence.”

