An Interview with the Director
RB.

The plays which you have done so far have all got to do with the socio—

political condition pertaining to the present. Why suddenly has your choice fallen on a
short story by Jaishankar Prasad which as you advertise, gives the classical Indian image

of t he past ?
A.K. You are probably referring to my earlier plays such as Adya ‘Rangacharyas,’
‘Suno Janme
Jai; Mohan Rakesh’s, ‘Aadhe——Adhure’s Gyan Dev Agnihotri’s,
‘Shuturmurg’,. If a Karnad or a Raakesh can give relevance to the Indian situation

why not Prasad ?

today

The conﬂict between one‘s personal love and love for one’s Motherland

as Prasad emphasies through Madhulika in Puruskar is an eternal conﬂict, not conﬁned
to any speciﬁc period. Then for a change I wanted to attempt something lyrical and soft
and Puraskar gave me this opportunity. Besides, I have always wanted to bring pure Hindi

on stage and there can be no two views about Prasad’s excellant command over his
1 a n gu a ge .

R. B.

If your idea was to bring Prasad on the stage, why is it that you have preﬁered

to transform one of his short stories into a play insread of performing one of the many
plays that he has written ?

A. K. I took it up as a challenge. To produce full length plays based on literary short
stories is no joke & yet it’s not an impossible achievement.
This sort of an adaptation
gives full opportunities to an enterprising Director to

exploit

his

talents

&

what

more

could a Director ask for ?
R. B.
form ?

On what basis did you conceive the production in the present Dance— Drama

A. K. Prasad is a poet, more than a dramatist. Puraskar required a deﬁnite style of
presentation & I felt it could best be done in this form.

R. B.
to

what

You have a tendency to make the actors in your plays
you

feel

about their charasters,

giving

conform completely

them little indep;ndence

to express

what they feel about them. Is it because you introduce an extreme amount of subjectivity
in the kind of theatre you perform ?

A. K. Yes, 1 do introduce a certain amount of subjectivity in my plays—-any artist
would do that. But not an extreme amount as you have put it, Regarding my tendency to
conform the actors completely to what I feel about their characters, I feel that the director
should be the sole interpreter of the play. Direction is not every one’s job. Every one
can’t do it, hence does not do it.

