R. B.

You don’t believe in Group Effort then '2

A. K.

I ncver said I did not.

R. B.

What would you like to say about Puruskar in this context 7

A. K. Yes it has been Subjectirely handled. In fact 1 should term it as a ‘personal’
production & I dedicate this production to a personal friend of mine, Medha, whom I

have always associated with Madhulika. But by no means has the original been distorted.
R. B.

How do you rate your earlier plays ?

A. K.

That I leave to my audience.

I do not believe in ‘Personal’ Theatre.

After

all for whom are we doing plays 7

R. B. But then are you not in direct contradiction with what you have just said—
the subjective element in the play and all that ‘l
A. K.

No I can’t Create without being sub iectively involved in a play. No one can. But

the audience has nothing to do with this subjectivity

It has only to judge the creation.

The play is my conception-for the audience.

R. B.

Your comments on originality, don’t you feel it’s the ﬁrst condition for

creativity?

A. K.

Every thing is not necessarily creative. Besides every thing originates except

originality. One is bound to be continually inﬂuenced by the environment, the circumstances,
the people around. Every one has to gain his inspiration from some one or the other——
more so in an art such as theatre where there is so much to learn. But one has to develop
one’s own approach. It has to become original, it can never be original at the

beginning. I think it’s hypocritical to call one’s work purely original.

R. B.
in it’s style.

AK.

Your last play Aadhe—Adhure’, seems to hate been inﬂuenced a lot by Films
Some of the movements in the play were more cinematic than theatrical, why ?

1 had conceiVed ‘Aadhe’ more of as a naturalistic Film than a realistic

A multiple set was constructed only to bring out the deeper emotions of each
play.
s
person in the play ju~.t the way a camera would move around in a ﬁlm to show movement
in
usly
of all the characters at almost the same time I had the actors acting simulaneo

different parts of the multiple set.
doesn’t need that.

That technique was necessary for ‘Aadhe’. Puruskar

time you
R. 8. There is a lot of gap between the time you choose a play and the
the plays, during this
begin directing it. One is inclined to feel that your obsession with

with you. What do
time, the way you continuously talk about them, is more of an escapism
_
३
'
you have to say for that ?

