ग्नूड्डडादृठे presents musical ड्
if“ play ‘Madhunashni’
Excelsior correspondent

awareness

among

the

masses ष

about various diseases through
JAMMU, Aug 22: To create theatre/drama which are still very
awareness among the people to powerful medium of communicacontrol diabetes, Bhartiya Lok tion. He also urged the artists and
Sangeet Kala Sansthan ( BLSKS), cultural organizations to cor)-

presented its 70th Musical Play tribute in enriching the cultural
"Madhunashni " at Open Air the- hefitage of the country and inspiratre Durga Bhawan Janipur ing the younger generation to folJammu.
low the footprints oftheir elders in '
The programme was organ- preserving the composite culture
ized in coordination with North of the Nation.
Indian Educational Trust (NIET),
Earlier
M L Dogra ,
Lucknow,
Unision Cultural Chairman, Bhartiya Lok Sangeet
Troupe,
Sangarn True Art Kala Sansthan, said that 1000
Production and ESRM. It was N605 from India including
inaugurated by V K Magotra, for- BLSKS from J&K State, partici-

mer

Regional

Director, pated at Lucknow all India meet
and deliberated in depth on measures to control spread of diabetes
Broadcasting. Dr Tara Singh among youth in India.
Charak, former Deputy Director
Renowned artistes Usha
Health Department of J&K Handoo, K K Joshi, M C Kotwal,
Directorate of Field Publicity,
Ministry of Information and

Government, Dr Anju Dogra and
Ramesh Chander were the guests

of honors.

Neelam Gandotra, Kamli Devi,

Hem Raj, Gauri Lal, Kuldeep Raj
and Avtar Kour, presented the
performance on the

The play was written, pro— enthralling
duced and directed by M L Dogra, theme,

५
. it:
Artists presenting musical play ‘Madhunashni’ at Jammu on
Saturday.
chairman of BLSKS and music
was composed by renowned
Music composer Raju Bajgal . _
Speaking on the occasion, V K
Magotra underlined the importance of staging such plays in all
parts of the State to generate

Prominent among those present on the occasion, included;
Ashok Mattoo, Daleep Singh,
Sunil Bhat, Raman Koul, Nanak
Chand, Subash Chander (Papu), J

K Bhat, Master Deepak Kumar
Dogra and others.

ऋ,

