Indian Council for
Cultural Relations
The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) was

founded in 1950 to establish, revive and strengthen cultural
relations and mutual understanding between India and
other countries of the world.
The Council’s activities include supporting the visits of
scholars, artistes and groups from the performing and
visual arts, to and from India. Exhibitions on India, on

contemporary and traditional arts and crafts and other
themes, are sent abroad. Exhibitions from other countries
are received in India. International seminars, conferences,

lectures and workshops are organised on issues of cultural
interest, including contemporary developments. The
publications division of the Council publishes books and
6 quarterly periodicals in several languages. Overseas
students studying in India are provided the full range of
services by the Council to cover their academic, social and
cultural needs. The Council is instrumental in establishing
chairs of Indian studies in Universities abroad.
The Council functions as the Secretariat for the

Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding.
The Council organizes annually the Maulana Abul Kalam
Azad Memorial Lecture in memory of Maulana Azad, the
founder President of ICCR and the first Education
Minister of India. The Council is also the secretariat for
the Indo-US Sub-Commission for Education & Culture.

The Council has seven Regional Offices in India and
five Cultural Centres abroad.

The Indian Council for Cultural Relations is honoured to present, in
collaboration with the British Council Division of the British High
Commission, the English Shakespeare Company.

The performances of A WINTER’S TALE and CORIOLANUS by
this renowned Company will, we are sure, be a land-mark in ICC R’s
growing and valued cooperation with the British Council.
On this occasion we feel privileged to welcome in New Delhi His
Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales and Her Royal Highness, the
Princess of Wales.

9W
Veena Sikri
Director General
Indian Council for Cultural Relations

