Pennington then invited Glen Walford. exArtistic Director of the Liverpool Everyman
Theatre to direct The Comedy of Errors.
Between 29th January and 26th May I990
this production visited I4 British venues
and then went toJerusalem as part of the
Jerusalem Festival and visited Kiev and
Moscow.

ABOUT THE ENGLISH
SHAKESPEARE COMPANY
The English Shakespeare Company was
formed in I986 under the artistic direction
of its founders. Michael Bogdanov and
Michaei Pennington.

The Company's inaugural I986/87
production of The Henrys (Shakespeare's
Henry IV Part 1, Henry IV Part 2 and Henry V)
toured the UK. Europe and Canada and
enjoyed a highly successful London season
at The Old Vic.
In autumn I987 the ESC added four new
productions to The Henrys: Richard II. Henry
VI: House ofLancastei; Henry VI: House of
York and Richard III. to create 'The Wars ofthe
Roses and so presented . for the first time in
almost 25 years. Shakespeare's complete
history cycle.
In what must be one of the most ambitious
tours ever undertaken by a British company
of this size. The Wars ofthe Roses toured
nationally and internationally for two years.
from I 987- | 989. As well as seventeen UK
venues and a seven-week season at The
Old Vic in London. the productions visited
the Hong Kong Festival. opened the Globe
Theatre in Tokyo. played the International
Theater Festival of Chicago. the Stamford
Centre for the Arts in Connecticut. and the
Berlin City of Europe '88 Festival; made a
Bicentennial tour of Australia. toured the
Netherlands and played Hamburg. East
Berlin and Frankfurt. During the ﬁnal week
of the tour at the Grand Theatre. Swansea.
all seven productions were recorded for
television. Michael Bogdanov and Michael

Throughout its history the ESC has
received generous support from the Arts
Council of Great Britain and from the
british Council. The Henrys and The Wars of
the Roses were presented by David and Ed
Mirvish of The Old Vic London and were
sponsored by Allied Irish Bank. The Comedy
ofErrors was made possible by the
individual sponsorship of an enthusiastic
supporter of the ESC. Mike Edwards. a
Leicestershire businessman.
The ESC's work has been recognised for a
number of awards. John Woodvine won
the I987 Laurence Olivier Award for Best
Comedy Performance for his portrayal of
Falstaff in the I986/87 production of The
Henrys. The Henrys was given a Special
Award by Drama Magazine and won the
Manchester Evening News Best Visiting
Production Award. The Manchester
Evening News voted John Woodvine Best
Actor in a Visiting Production in | 987 and
Andrew Jarvis Best Actor in I988. for his
portrayal of Richard III in The Wars ofthe
Roses; Michael Pennington was nominated
for the I989 Daily Telegraph Award for
Outstanding Artistic Achievement. In
Australia. Michael Bogdanov was presented
with the Mobil Pegasus Award for
Outstanding Creative Contribution in the
SpoIeto Melbourne Festival of the Arts and
the Chicago Tribune voted The Wars ofthe
Roses top of its list of Outstanding

Productions of the Decade. In I990 SWET.
the Society of West End Theatre. presented
the Laurence Olivier Awards. Michael
Bogdanov won Best Director for The Wars
ofthe Roses and Michael Pennington was
nominated for Best Actor and Chris Dyer
for Best Designer.

