Anton Chekhov
1898 Stanislavasky produced The Seagull for
hisnewly founded Moscow Art Theatre and it was for him
that Chekhov wrote Uncle Vanya (1900), Three Sisters

(1901) and The Cherry Orchard (1903). In 1901
Chekhov married Olga Knipper, one of the Moscow
Art Theatre’s leading actresses. He died in 1904.

Chekhov is the most notable and celebrated 20th
century Russian dramatist in the west, his plays
helped establish psychological realism which was the
dominant note of his plays, although they also
showed syrnbolist, impressionist and even protoabsurdist traits. By fragmenting the well-made play,
scattering exposition thoroughout, compressing,
internalizing and excising action, Chekhov created
the so called ’theatre of mood’, of misdirection,

noneventfulness and partially stated meaning. A
physician by training, he was especially sensitive to
the individual's predisposition toward wostefullness
versus the conservationist potential of life. His plays
portray the constant attrition of daily life and the
waste, under the social conditions of old Rusiia, of

youthful energy and talent.
Chekhov’s background as a descendent of peasants
who had risen from the lower middle class to
become a physician and then a celebrated writer,
Born 1860, in Tanganrog in South Russia.

After a

harsh childhood he went to Moscow in 1879 and

active in the intellectual circles of his time, provided

variegated material for his works.

And the

entered the medical faculty of the university *

awareness that tuberculosis would cut short his life,

graduating in 1884. During his university years he
supported his family by contributing stories and

combined with the responsibility to support his large
family, produced a sense of duty, an obsession to

sketches to magazines.

work, that caused him in his writings to cast

In 1885 he met Suvorin,

Editor of Novoye Vremya in St. Petersburg, who
encouraged him to write and in 1886 Chekhov
published a volume of his stories.

In 1887 his first

bemused eye on his listless and bored life.
Listlessness was common in the 18805 when
Chekhov was commencing his literary career,

full length play lvanov was produced in Moscow.

because government repression prevented political

For five years he lived in the country near Moscow,

and social activism, and a torrid malaise afflicts his

practising medicine and writing many of his best

beginnings as a writer of comic anecdotes,

stories; but when his health began to fail he moved
to Crimea and after 1900 most of his life was spent

endowed Chekhov with an almost clinical obiectivity,

at Yalta where he met Tolstoy and Gorky. He wrote
his best known plays in the last years of his life; in

a refusal to espouse causes or expound prejudices,
which has enabled critics to read him in many
different ways.

