The Di rector
In I978, under the auspices of the Union of Theatre
Activists of Russia he organised a theatre-laboratory
for the South Russian directors.
In I980 some of his students started an actor's
training course in the Russian Academy of theatrical
Art(GITIS) in Moscow. He ioined the Academy as a

Lecturer and also look admission in the post-graduate
course as a student.

On completion of post-graduate

studies he become eligible to impart training to some
of the higher institutes of theatrical studies but
returned to Caucasus to continue his work. Soon
enough the State Dramatic Theatre invited him as its

director.
In I989, his production of 'Lower Depths’ by Maxim
Gorky, with the leading artist of Russia, AIeksei
Astrenko in the cast, was invited to the international

symposium on ’Stanislavsky in the Changing World’
at Moscow, which achieved great acclaim from the
participants of the symposium as well as from the
critics. He was again invited to work at the Russian
Academy of theatrical Art(GITIS) and within a year

he became the Dean of the faculty of actors. He
got completely involved in theatre— training and also
continued working in Moscow and overseas.

Valentin Teplyakov started his career as professional
actor at the age of seventeen. A year later he look
admission in the acting faculty of the Higher School

of theatre of Academy of Maly Theatre at Moscow.

In the spring of I995, his production of Chekov’s
’Three Sisters’ in Buenos-Aires, Argentina was
brought to the International Drama Festival Podium at
Moscow.

In the year of I973, after the completion of his
Mr. Valentin Teplyakov, perceives this tour, at the
education in theatre, he went to Caucausus of the

Nalchie Hill, the Capital of autonomous Republic of
Kalardino-Balkari and started working there. There
he created the company called Mo/oc/yo/hry Theatre
(The Youth’s Theatre) where he worked both as actor

and director and also began to impart theatre
training. Very soon he got recognition from the
audience and started receiving invitations for various
festivals and cornpetetions. The play ’Conversion’
(I977) directed by him (based on the poems of

Pablo Neruda) was widely acclaimed in Moscow.

invitation of the National School of Drama, as his

first meeting with a great cultural tradition and
believes in the fruitful creative contacts in the future
as a result of this.

