। am thankful
My first meeting with India

l humbly greet Ms. Rita Ganguly ......

No, not the Indian tea... the meeting—the movie
”Awara”... the brilliant artist Rai Kapoor... half-

I am grateful...

starved childhood... the cheerful song ”Awara hun"...

to Mr. Jaywant and Ms. Swagata... They worked
patiently and gave me the opportunity to be heard

my first meeting...

and understood...

The youth... the reproduction of paintings of Nikolai
Roerich... my second meeting... why India became
mother-country for the Russian artist 3... my second

। humbly greet Mr. Jaywant and Ms. Swagata...

I am grateful... to the Students of National School of
Drama, India... to these future artists. It was quite

meeting. . . .

difficult for them, but with amazing wisdom they
The third meeting—KS. Stanislavsky ”The work of an
actor on himself”, the chapter, the radiation and the

beaming perception"... हैं why and from where this
chapter? my third meeting...

accepted my stern character and did their best so
that the play could take shape... May Good luck
never desert them...
I humbly greet them...

I have something to say about A.P. Chekov... । have
something to say... But all I say would not express

what I feel... My plays... My love for him... He is a

God smiled on me and presented me with some
happiness... the happiness to be in the magic
country-India . . .

genius.

From Hotel Janpath, | everyday go to the school...
On the right there is A.C. Pushkin statue... I pray
and beg that he did not abandon me, well, here he

is standing proudly... holding his head high...

। am grateful ;...

A.P. Chekhov, his play lvanov— for the first time in

Hindi... New Auditorium of NSD— is being opened
with the Russian play which is staged by the Russian
director...

We are so far away and yet so close to each

to Prof. Ram Gopal Baiai, the person who is

other... May we have enough strength to conquer
one another with kindness, patience and love.

infinitely and immeasurably in love with theatre... to
the person, very talented and fine, looking far
ahead, to the person involved in his cause. l am

But l shall go and carry my infinite love for you.

grateful to Mr. Subba Rao and all others who

of my soul and heart shall remain in you, with

received me and saw me off, all those who helped

you...and we shall definitely meet someday and if

me without whose kindness and warmth it would

not here... but, all the same, we shall meet and

have been very difficult to work...

smile to each other...

| humbly greet Prof. Baiai...

। with enormous love and hearty gratitude, humbly

But I shall remain... My tears sweat and blood, part

I

greet you.

I am grateful....
to Madam Rita Ganguly who was present during all
my rehearsals... her home became a native home for

me... I lived and knew that any moment I could
l was
knock... and the door would open for me
not alone...

Valentin Teplyakov
Dean, Faculty of Actors,
Russian Academy of Theatrical ArtslGlTlS)
Moscow, Russia

