PAT—TA B A K K l ("if :
As early as in 1 936 when the political arena in Kerala
was becoming more and more tense with the peasant landlord antagonism and anti-British movement.
The ideological intellectualisrn of the middle class
was struggling to ﬁnd strategies of containment in
various ﬁelds of creative activity. The age-old concept of a coercive aesthetics of”divine bliss” and the
appropriation of the cultural life and elemental human experience of the majority came to have little
signiﬁcance in the newly evolved performance praxis which clearly was being determined by the social
contradictions of the times. Here, art and performa nce became a highly conscious and rational social
activity for the new playwrights who were basically
social reformers ﬁrst and foremost.The shaping spirit
of this newly emerged theatre practice with an agg ressive aesthetic and performance orientation gave
birth to another genre totally new to Malayalam theatre which found its expression in K. Damodaran’s
Pattabakki (1936). Considered as the ﬁrst political
play in Malayalam, Pattabakki rooted itself in the
anti-erdal consciousness of the people, which was
getting manifested in the struggles of the peasants
against feudal landlordisrn supported by the British regime. A new structure of human experience
determined by the socio-political reality undertook
the task of vehemently challenging the hegemonic
ideology of the times.Th is new performance pattern
which was basically realistic reached every nook and
corner of Kerala to establish a lasting effect upon the
future developments in the radical theatre practice
of Kerala.
Thus, it can be surmised that with K. Damodaran’s
Pattabakki Malayalam theatre practice came of age
in 3937 and the subsequent developments in Kerala
theatre very clearly indicates the class-contradic—
tions embedded at the core of the fast changing social formations.
‘v
The play is interesting structurally as well.At one level
it has a documentary nature that episodically builds
up. The different scenes are charged with emotions
but the story develops between each scenes. The
play has 14 scenes that take place in verandah of a
small and decaying hut, a small teashop in the town,
the house of the landlord, a street, a small shop, a police station, the ofﬁce roorn of the barn of the landlord, under a tree in a street, a prostitution house, and
a jail.The locales of scenes suggest the locales where
political and social power is operated.
The play is written in a realistic style; however rather
than naturalisrn, a suggestive realism is suited for

this type of work. The earlier productions of
this play has been enacted with realistic melodramatic overtones and was over projecting
the emotional content of the radical political
stands of the play, thus making it a simplistic
propaganda piece. It is noteworthy that the
play did not give a direct answer to the problems it raises. When asked what to be done to
face such grave exploitation the central character just says that ’I will tell you’.’
A Brechtian approach in a didactic and open
structure will make the play a new experience.
The episodical narrative is addressing the audience directly and mostly talks to them en ha ncing the dialectical nature of this play.The play is
presented in an open space where each of the
scenes are arranged in different spaces with
suggestive realistic set pieces and props and
the audience is made to shift attention from
space to space.
The period of this production is set during the
19605 even if the issues raised in this play transcend space and time. It is valid in social structure that oppresses the working class people.
Thematically the play speaks about agriculture,
the farmer, the land owner and the exploitative
relationship between them. In the present Kerala society where agriculture as a social activity
is disappearing, it will be interesting to enquire
the passion with which our farmers worked on
the ﬁeld even under exploitation. It is the stark
social reality that forces the protagonist to
thieve and the female lead to opt for prostitution. Theft and prostitution are approached by
the playwright not as sin but as the result of social pressure on the oppressed. This reading of
prostitution and thieving is a strong statement
against the continuance of a fake morality.

Address:
Lokadharrni, 44/2257, Convent Road, Vyttila,
Kochi, Pin: 682 019, Kerala, India.
Phone: +9 1 (484-2302403,
Mobile 2 +91 -944741 4200
E-mai l : ch and rad asa n@a sia n etonI in e. net
Website: www. lokad ha rmi .org

