Shaping the Seagull vision...
The legendary B.V. Karanth often said, “Theatre is a subject that. has no grammar, .that
recognizes no boundaries no limitations”. Syrnbolizing this very spirit are a rather unique
couple— Bhagirathi and Baharul Islam—who have been constantly challenging all
boundaries, experimenting with new ideas and restlessly exploring the vast ocean that
theatre is. Through their collective commitment and selfless dedication, they have made

an immense contribution to Assamese theatre. Owing to their tireless effort, Seagull has
become a familiar name to the theatre-enthusiasts in the country.

Bhagirathi, a diploma holder from Ninasam (l 986) and graduate from the National
School of Drama (I 990—Specialisation in acting), is the Principal and the Academic in—charge
of Seagull Theatre Academy. In an illustrious career spanning a period of 20 years, she has

acted in more than 45 plays in different languages— Kannada, Hindi, and Assamese, notable
among them being Nala Darnyanti, Miss Julie, Twelfth Night, Sohrab Rustum, Hamlet,

Macbeth, Ashaad Ka Ekdin, The Seagull, The Father, Antaryatra, Jatra, and Shantata Court
Chalu Ahe etc. She has worked for the Ninasam Repertory Company during I 986—87 and
]99.]99] .During each period, she toured the entire state of Karnataka extensively,
performing I20 and I30 shows respectively. In ]99.93, she joined Tara Art of London as an
actress for the play Heer Ranjha and gave performances in 56 shows in UK and Japan. In
]99]-92 she received Fellowship from NSD for a project on Solo Narrative Acting of female
characters-Shakuntala, Gandhari and Mallika and in 1998 she received a Junior Fellowship
from Deptt. of Culture, Govt. of India.
Besides being a versatile
actress, Bhagirathi has designed and
directed many plays like Antigone,
Tugh/aaue, Baka, Puntila and his man
Matti,
Macbeth,
Merchant of
Venice, Ashaad Ka Ekdin, Panjare
Shala, Sara Sammana Samadhi and
Buddhurarn etc. that have won
critical acclaim. She has worked with
eminent directors like B. V. Karanth,
Prasanna, Barry John, Anarnika
Haksar, D R Ankur, R G Bajaj, K V
Subbanna, C R Jumbe, K V Akshara
and Fritz Bennewitz etc. She has also
conducted theater workshops for
NSD, Ninasam and Buxton, UK.
Bhagirathi has been involved with
Shishu Sarothi, a school for children
with special needs for the past l0
years and has directed several plays
for them.
She has further extended her
reDertoire by acting in numerous
television serials, tele—films and feature

films. For her brilliant performance in

