DATED : 1.11-91 SUNDAY A IKALA PRAKASH PRESENTATION‘AGNIJAWAL’
writer—Shree Prag (1 Dosa,

Translator—Dr. Sharad Nagar

DIRECTOR’S VISION

‘Agnijwal’

The Script clicked in my conscious like a flam, I searched for it, and

found that it was burning in my Sub-conscious smce four years. If I am
correct, this very script was to be launched by our veterbn theatrist, Shree
P. K. Ghose~unfortunately the day did not come.

Let me dedicate my first creative work to my Guru Shree P. K. Ghose
—-The living nucleus of theatrical gravitation.

For my self, it is my first experience with a Script —~-a group of Artist
—committee of Producers «Convenors, with a new .visianary angle »that. is
Director’s Vision. I am comming through proper channel with my studies

and theatrical activities, Knowing it to be a vast ocean of fire to cross
through the flame.

I started my reher-al with new chaps, less experienced, but dedicated
to their goal. We took our job seriously and started to play with script in
a different way-but we have limitations of our auditorium actor-actresses &
audience. This play is a dramatic creation against the corrupt social system

deeply rooted in our society. It is an inpectious disease effecting our ancient
culture The forth comming generation is very much in the grip of decultu-

risation, using-Drugs-Opium-Hashish Charas-Smaclt and L.S.D. etc. which
are very simple way to escape from- the struggle for Life Values and Ideals.

It is a mirror-transparent, which couverts in a nude canvas and convey’s.
The operated truths—

the burning flames-the “AGNIJWAL” -—Vijay Wahal
ON STAGE

Dr. Rupesh

BACK STAGE

: Vijay Wahal

Set & Light

Ghacha Karasandas : Ram Padarath
Rai

: Shalendra Kumar

Music &Ef'f'ect : Surojeet Chatterjee

Dr. Kaushik

: Abhisinchit

Music Arranger : Munna & Janoo
Sound
: Shyamal Da
५H

Dr. Dhruv

: Alok Sinha

Co-operation : Prem, Yaseen, Aniar

Inspector Raj Singh : Raju *s’
Sonali

nath & Rajendra

: Km. Suman

Pathak

Vandana
ने-,

: Km. Aparna
Tiwari

Being Directed by ——

Rehersal Venue : Rajendra Memorial

Girls School & Co-

aching Institute,
Kabir Road .

' Vijay Wahal

यह' गौरव की बात है "हिन्दी हमारी राष्ट्रभाषा है I’’

