Q

MAS I H I

MSS

has produced 7

SAHlTYA

SANSTHA

70

JANPATH

NEW

DELHI - 110001

PHONE: 320373

new books in very attractive four colour covers to meet the needs of Hindi

speaking people of all age groups and of all tastes. Every Christian must read and have them for
his/her personal use and encourage others to read these books.
1 . PR AT AHK A L
This Ion awaited book is once again available in a very attractive 4 colour
M AN AN 3 20 page cover with palstic jacket to ensure the long life of the book. The book has 36'5
4 colour cover
selected daily reading for each day. C.S. Spurgeon 5 well known thoug tt
with plastic jacket. provoking meditations are still relevant today and many Chris‘tiansare being
Price Rs. 12.00

blessed by these wonderful daily devotional thoughts.

Every Christian family

will feel proud to have such a wonderful book in his/her home.
2. SANSANAT]
HAWA Crying
Wind 184 page
4 colour cover.

Price Rs. 6:00
3. 'I‘ARAP’I‘E DIL
My Son My Son
240 page 4 colour
cover.
Price Rs. 7:50
4. YONEKO BY
… BERNARD
. PALMER 168
page 4 colour
cover
Price Rs. 7:00
5. SINGHASAN
KE ADHIKARI
DESTINED FOR
THE 'I‘HRONE By
Paul E. Billheirner :

148 page 4 colour

This is the story of a Red Indian young girl who was afraid of death and hated
life. She was worshipping thousands of gods in order to gain peace of mind
and help in her trouble, but none came to her side.

How she contacted-Jesus

Christ and how her whole life changed, please read all these accounts In this
fast selling book.
.
Bernard Palmer's well known novel and film My Son My Son is_the base of this
true story. This book deals with parents and children, relations. 'The older
people sometimes do not understand the changing needs of their children and
children also think their parents as out of date. In this book we read how
devoted Christian parents help their child when every thing seems to be gorng
on in the wrong way. All parents should read this book.
Yoneko Means “Daughter of Happiness." This book is . based on
well
known film YONEKO. This is a story of a young Japanese girl who was always
happy until her mother's death. After the death of her mother she hated the
life and attempted twice to end her life. The second attempt changed her life
and she found life meaningful. She became Christian and witnessed to many
of her natives.
Why God created the Universe ? Who is man and why he came into this world?
What is the aim and goal of our life? These are some of the questions often
asked by people. Science or Philosophy cannot give concrete answer to these
questions. They are beyond their reach Bible is the only book which with
authority gives the answers of these questions. If you want to know God's
purpose to create the Universe please read this book.

cover Price Rs.5:00

6. PREM SAN'I‘U-

LAN KI KRANTI
Revolution of Love
8 Balance By

Some people think that preaching the Gospel is the work only for Pastors
and some selected persons who have special qualifications and training to preach.
But the writer George Verwer emphasised that this is the primary work of every
Christian. Our Lord said “You Are My Witnesses" and it includes every
Christian who has found life in Jesus Christ to give witness for his/her Master.
How we can take part in this world-wide rninistrv to spread the Good News
of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ—read and find out in this book.

George Verwer.
112 page
Price Rs. 3:50
7. ASHA KI
This is a true story of a young Korean Christian girl who did not bowed
her
KIRAN If I Perish
head to the idols and did not worship their gods.
She
stood
for
her
by Esther Ah‘n Kim
faith and this led her into jail. She suffered terribly in the jail but all sorts
of
208 p. 4 clr cover
suffering and tortures did not change her faith. She remained faithful to
Price Rs. 6:00
Jesus Christ.
IMPORTANT : M .S . S . has its own Offset Press with
Modern Machines, Offset Camera and
recently added with Phototype-setter which can compose Hindi, English
and Punjabi. Please contact
for all your printing jobs at M88 or direct at our Ambassador Press,
C-56/1, Okhla Industrial Area,
Phase-ll, New Delhi-110020.
Telephone No 636038
Special Announcement : M88 is keen to establish
Hindi Libraries on very attractive terms in Churches
Organisations, lnstituti ons, Hospitals and Schools even
homes. Please enquire for details.

