The Good News Broadcasting Society
(Back to the Bible Broadcast)

A Resume :
Broadcasting is a powerful medium for spreading the good news to a wide spectrum

of people.

Statistics show that at present there are an average of 28 million radio

sets in India (these are excluding the thousands of unlicenced sets).

Back to the Bible which is the English broadcasting Section of the Good News Broadcasting Society (GNBS) has been in the radio ministry for the past four decades.

Back to the Bible Broadcast seeks to teach, admonish and bring to Christian maturity
peOple who are ﬂoundering in this messed up world. By producing programmes,
that are beamed over the radio, Back to the Bible breaks through

language. literacy and social barriers.

all castes, class,

It endeavours to reach people of all walks of

life, teaching them and bringing them up in spiritual matters.

Apart _ from the radio

broadcasts, Back to the Bible also has many parallel ministries. These ministries
ethics
cover a wide range of Christian theology, eschatology and apologetics, Christian

and morals.
to the Bible)
The English broadcast of the Good News Broadcasting Society (Back
S. circuG.N.B
has a very large listening audience. Among the periodicals that the
s to the English
lates, the English ones have the highest readership. The reSponse
programmes
radio
English
the
to
es
respons
The
ones have the highest readership.

response to the
are very high and result in an average of 2000 letters per month. In
s and other
booklet
books,
30,000
numerous requests for literature an average of
literature are sent out annually.
Among our other related ministries are :

Biblical truths,
Song Cassettes, Magazines, Radio Supplements, Literature based on
Prayer Partner Scheme
Correspondence Courses, Counselling, Faith Partner Scheme,

and Cassette Lending Library.

7

effective minisApproximately 30 staff members are engaged in this unique and highly
converts to
new
and
seekers
try of guiding and directing hundreds and thousands of
Jesus Christ.
who are involved in
This is a ministry of Faith. It is therefore, essential that we
this work be upheld through your prayerful support.

