‘Theatre red Punjabi in Pak’
९३

an ease which reﬂects experience. A re
questfor a conversation ensues arfd she re
plies calmly, “Two of the performers have
not been able to make it to India. I will be

want it. Anything which is
new and cre
ative
transcends boundaries. I would
want an audience where I
can
openly

performing their roles instead. I want an

perform

Sahiba Cuccria I TNN ,
Chandigarh: Minutes before
formance, she swiftly moves bac

and

forth on stage guidingthe performerswith

audience now.” She was in Chandigarh
with her play ‘Birha Tu Sultan’ stagedat a
Mohali school onThursday
'
As the play opens, all eyes are set onthe
' stage where ace Pakistanitheatre director

हैं Huma Safdar enactsthe role of BabaFarid '
5 without lettingthe onlookers notice theab-

हूँ sence of the two actors. She delivers with

I conﬁdence on stage yet off the stage she
doesn’tboast of hertalent even subtly
Resuming the exchange, she sits down

my

art
without
having to worHuma Safdar
ry about it.”
Back home in Lahore, Pakistan, Huma
is one of the few theatre artists to have performed ‘Heer Damodar’ aswell as‘ Heer’ by
Waris Shah. She shares, “There are many
whoperform these plays, but seldom do ar-

tistes spend time reading these plays. It
tookmeover twoyears to read‘Heer Damodar’ and the same amount of time to read

love legends and giving it a creative twist
while keepingits sacredness intact. Love, I
feel, is atool that challengesall institutions

and italso offers a critiqueon the systemas
a whole. In the end, it overcomes all obstacles and emerges triumphant. ’I‘he texts,

which were written by great writers from
the past, hold relevance in the present sce

nario too. I have performed plays by writers such as Shah Latif, Najam Hussain
Syedand more.”
'
A vocal advocate of Punjabi, she admits there was a time when the language
was on the verge of dying a slow death in
Pakistan, but that is no longer the case.
Theatre played a major role in that “It has
led to the revival of Punjabi as a language.

Earlier itwas popular yetneglected as English is the languageof the elite and that is

है and smiles, “Theatre might someday

Waris Shah’s ‘Heer’ as I felt it necessary to ‘

'I bridge the gap
between India and
Pakis.
.

understand it in all its essence. These are

'_ tan. Boundaries are not therequirement of

not. the only love legends that I have per-

what everyone wanted to be identiﬁed
with. Punjab came to be associated wit
something which seemed ﬁne when s
ken in ﬁlms, but was superﬁcial in essen
But Punjabi is gradually regaining its 10

I the common people. Only those in power

formed. I ﬁnd satisfaction in interpreting

status,” shesays.

