KASHMIR TIMES, JAMMU
Tuesday, September 27, 2016

|3

"Natya ngagama " 3rd day »
[J 1’:

Plays/Folk performances
by ethnic grous of J&K

KT NEWS SERVICE
forced to leave his -native village.
JAMMU, Sep 26: The ﬁve day grand - Accompanied by his nine-year-old daughter, he takes shelter in the house of a
event "Natya Samagama" marked its
friend in Shamachak, a nearby village.
third day with Director's meet where in
conversation with Anajana Puri who is The efforts of his friend Rullo result in a
the music director of the 'play "Tukke Pe land grant from landlord in Shamachak
and one fourth of the produce is ﬁxed as
Tukka" told that "Music is a part of theatre and also added that any music can land revenue. The hard work put in by
him,
the sweat and toil of Jitto turns a
be finderstood only by learning. Even if
you cannot be a ’I‘ansen but youhmust be barren land into proliﬁc treasure. This
a Kansen for that one must learn music, makes avaricious landlord to back out on
if a person wants to enjoy life music must his 'word and ask for major share of the
crop. Helpless Jitto, unable to endure
be learnt."
Then the phenomenal actors ofthe play injustic’e, kills himself. The agony
becomes
boundless when Gauri, his little
"Yahaan" Anubha F‘atehpuriya and
Sanchayita Bhattacharjee said, "Every daughter immolates- h _ If, on her
part of the body has a different language father's pyre. 'क्विहँश्चिधिहँस्थारैऔ swayed
the audiences were Sanchita Dubey as
in theatre. For the play both of us learnt
Gauri ~was a treat to watch ,Arvind
Tai chi and very minutely every word was
Anand
in the ' अब-म ' हूँ
.1611 the
mixed with the sentiments."
audience stunned where as enu Sharma
This was followed by F‘olk performancgave an amazing energy , Rahul Singh as
es of ethnic groups of the state. The First
Isso gave a awestruck performance,
was the "Jattar" by Mohan Lal and party,
Jammu which is practiced on Gugiya Mohd. Yaseen attracted the, audience in
different
roles.
Navmi. They owe a "Chin" Sign and roam
The second was Punjabi play "Kanak
it ’in the whole village. The process is
Di Balli" directed by Kewal Dhaliwal
known as Gugeel. The person who leads
the Gugeel is called Doala. The group from Amritsar one of the eminent direcbasically performs against the social tors of the country. The play is based on
matchless wedding of Taro and Bachna.
issues like overpopulation, F‘emale foetias with all the Gargi's stories, presented
cide, drugs and show case them through
a
dark, tragic picture of Punjab's countrytheir dance.
side, highlighting illiteracy, ignorance
The second was "Geetru" by Rumalo
and
oppression. "The play was written in
Ram
&
Party
from
Ramnagar,
Udhampur who- has also won two goch 1955 in a book’format by Balwant Gargi
and tells the story of a young girl, her typ- ‘
medals at National Youth Festival. The
20 yéar old custom of"Geetru" isfchieﬂy ical dreams of ﬁnding true love, getting
married and raising a family. But all this
to respect our dogri language and take it
forward. Geetru‘s are basically songs that
are sung on different occasions and to
keep evil away. The soul ofthe form of art
is the music and the instruments used in
it like Bansuri, Dholak, Chimta, Ghada,
Kensiya, Thipiyan, Lota and 'I‘hali these
were followed by other performances like
"Chinjaan" and "Massadey".
The event further exhibited two major

plays ﬁrst was our very own aesthetical
play Bawa Jitto directed by Balwant
Thakur also known as "Magic Man" of
theatre left the audiences in an unending

emotional dillema. The most special of
the play is the soulful recitation' of the
whole play through "Karkaan". The tragic story of Bawa Jit’to portrayed the ageold saga of exploitation of landless farm-

ers by landlords. Due to the constant and
persistent pressures of relatives, with a

piece of land as bone of contention, Bawa
Jitto, a hard working, farm less farmer is

is shattered when her drunkard uncle,

who she lives with, sells off her ﬁeld. In
the end, just like the ripe wheat crop in
her ﬁeld that is sold to the highest bidder,
she too is sold off and commits suicide to
escape a grim future. The stage-turned
into a village mela (fair), where the entire
story unfolded as the audience was
gripped into the brilliant light and sound

display. ‘Music was another signiﬁcant
aspect of the 'play which gave a different

charisma. Actor‘s who left the audiences
amazed were Ramandeep Kour as Taroo,

Bachna as Jatinder Soni and Jitnder
Kour as Taba.
The ﬁve day event will get more ﬁred
up with amazing artistic perfomances
scheduled for the fourth‘day. ‘
Ethnic performances like Bhand Father, Kud, Bhagtiaan shall be witnessed followed by three major plays
Sartaqs, Raja Vikrmaditya hindi swang
and Abhigyan Shakuntalam.
/

