CHANDRADA‘SAN
BHISHAM SAHNI (August 8, 1915 - July 11,2003)

Chandradasan is a Lecturer in Chemistry at St Albert’s College. He is a theatre director,

' actor and writer. He is also the Erie. Director of Lokadharmi and Mazha'villu. He has . .
:1 दृ a पृ direCted about 35 playsin Malayalam, English, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil languages
रे g 7 ३ that inciude Medea(Euri:pides);Poranadi (K.N.Panicker);Karnnabhararn (Bhasa);Chathan ३ . f '

' J 'f Kattu (adaptation ofT'heTernpest by Shakespeare) Ravunni (RM.Taj);Theruvu Jadha '
7 ,(हुँहुव्रट्रांतां Sircar); Rajavinte Chenda (Safdar Hashrni); Macbeth (Shakespeare) Pattabakki

(KDamodaran);U1bu Maharaja (Alfred Iarry) Rithusamharam (Kalidasa); Mathavilasa

' Prahasa.rrarrr in Sanskrit (Mahendra Vi krama Varrnan); M‘adh uve Hennu (in Kannada by
' 7 _. H‘.S.Shivaprakash), and the children’s plays Oru Koottarn Urumbukal (G. Sankara Pillai);
८ {i ' ' Vishnu Maya (KilN.Panicker); Kalippavakal (self); Chandrasekhara Kambar’s Aalibabavurn
4Q Thirudarkalum (in Tamil for NSD, RRC), Journey to the Deep North (Ajith Basu, in
…
English) and Panjarasala (B.V.Karanth).
दृ हुंहिंहूँहैगीब्ध participated in the International Festival on Ancient Greece drama in Greece,

overhundred short stories spread over nine collectionsof short stories,

“21001;.visited Dhaka, Bangladesh in 52006; and. has also participated in many National

Bhagya Rekha (1953), Pa hIa patha (1956), Bhatakti rakha (1966), and? His;
(1983)); a collection of children’s short stories 'Gulal ka khte six playsgiitc

3 and International Festivals on different parts of India including the Bharath Ranga

Hanusa (1977),Kabira khara bazar rnein (1981),Madh-avi (1982) and Muavije‘
his autobiography "Aaj ke Ateet" (Pasts of the Present), and the biography
brother Balraj Sahni,”Ba|raj My Brother,” (English)
7
7 r ,_ ३ 7' ‘7
During his life time, BisharnSahn i won several wards including Shiroma‘nti

Award, 1 979, U ttar Pradesh Government Award for Tamas, 1 975, है'" i हैं a १2
Kala Sahitya Parishad Award, for his play’Han usa’, 1975 the Lotus Awathth

Afro-Asian Writers’Association, 1981 and the Soviet Land (Nehru AWavrédgV
ﬁnally the Padma Bhushan for literature in 1998. है"

हुतु - गृ ३ ' '

'३ I '

Mahotsav organised by NSD New Delhi in 2002, 2004, and 2006.
7

He is the resource person for drama and theatre in many universities and institutions

7 ' 7 7 i neluding N SD,Sangeei‘rha Nataka Academy all over the country. He has participated in
_7 7

National and International Sern ina‘rsand published articles in importantjourna ls

हुँ मृ हुँ गाहँनुहुँयांराशु sangeeth Natakfliheatre I ndia, Literary Criterion,Bhashaposhini, Kalakournudi,
-' f Keligetc. Also had translated many plays into Ma Iayalam.“ ५ पृ; 7 . He ।य९1ल a Ison the National awards for best directionlan'd, the Best Play fromMultiIirrgtial Theﬁre Festivals, at Cuttack, Patna,Vizianagararn and Thiruvanathapurarn.

(यदु-नह: is the winner of the Kerﬁla San-geetha Nataka academy aWard in 2004'for his
Theatre. दें

’

Designed by Shobha Menon,www.chaaya.com

Bhisham Sahni was a Hindi writer, playwright, and actor born in Rawalpindi.
Upon Partition, he and his family were forced to move to Amritsar He joined the - 7
struggle for Indian independence, and was jailed for his participation in the Quit .7
'
India Movement of 1942.
In the late 19405, he worked as a stage performer in Mumbai with the Indian
People’s Theatre Association. He was general secretary ofthe Progressive Writers
Association, and was the founder chairrna n of’SAHMATj a n organization promoting
cross-cultural understanding, founded in memory of the murdered theatre artist
.
and activist Safdar Hashrni.
Sahni’s proliﬁc career as a writer also included ﬁve other Hindi novels iricjludingg_j हुँ
Tamas (“Darkness”), a powerful and passionate account of the Partition

