..,-…७.…...^…५… ५.…८……न्ति -

५

,._. "v

W

…

.7-“ .

आँ

..

r

. .

. N

, ,_ T

SANSAPTAK is one of the leading Theatre Groups in Delhi. Our
aim is to present quality theater to a discerning audience, on varied
themes that reﬂect topical concerns. The group was established in
1992 by some like-minded friends and got itself registered under
Societies Registration Act 1860 in 2001 .
In a short span of 1 8 years we have staged more than 29 plays and 300
productions in various parts of the country. We have also achieved
various awrds and have participated in numerous theatre festivals
like “Bharat Rang Mahotsav”, “Ganga Jamuna International Theatre
Festival”, “Legends of India, “ Bhartendu Natya Utsav”, “ Delhi
International Arts Festival” and many more. SANSAPTAK is a
voluntary organization which runs on “No Proﬁt” motive.

Director Proﬁle

५ I Since 1982 to the present times, Torit Mitra has
का penned 34 plays; all staged under his Direction
‘ i and Design, in SANSAPTAK and other groups“.

All his plays have been critically acclaimed and
loved by audiences. In the year 2005 and 2009
he received Gunij on Sambardhana (Eminent
Citizen Honor) by Chittaranj an Park
I?- Community and Bangiya Samaj, for being the
only proliﬁc contemporary writer in Delhi for
promoting progressive developments in Bangla Language, through
his stories, poetry and contemporary plays. Ha has also won several

National and International awards in ﬁeld oftheatre and ﬁne arts.

NIDAAN
Nidaan (Judgment) has been inspired by Tagore ’s Griha
Pravesh and was written by the in-house versatile
playwright Torit Mitra of SANSAPTAK. This is the
Hindi translation of his original Bengali play.
.i .

It is a tale of an ailing young man Jatinp being looked
after-by his aunt, who dreams of freedom from the
shackles of the doctor’s regimen, to lead a normal vibrant
life and build his dream house for his young bride Moni.
Both encounter their consciousness again and again in
the form of a “dream” and a “bird”, having their own
perspective of freedom of choice.

