ड् KALA ड्डेदैहूँ
v. ACADEIDV .
GOA

THEATRE IN GOAN SCHOOIS
“What is becoming increasingly clear to psychologists is that those who have had
a childhood in which the emphasis was on hiding thefeelings, are especially careful
to conceal them as adults, and experience much more anxiety than people who
have been brought up to be more expressive. Acting out roles in which the characters
are angry, determined, brave, caring and concerned, frightened, sad andjoyful is
a way of exploring and understanding the range offeelings involved in human
interactions. Early play at giving each other emotional support and loyalty prepares
the way for the mature friendships that will follow in later years ”.
Erickson : Your Personality and Potential

BACKGROUND AND CONTEXT :
For the first time in the country, in early 1998 theatre was introduced as a subject at the Std. VIII level
in schools in Goa. This was made possible following extensive negotiations between educational

authorities in Goa, the School of Drama, Kala Academy, and the grant making body India Foundation
for the Arts, Bangalore. Towards that end, the Directorate of Education, Government of Goa, recognized
the Kala Academy School of Drama’s, 3yr. Diploma in Theatre for recruitment of theatre teachers to
Secondary Schools and created 3 posts for teachers in three ‘Super School Complex in the Talukas of
Pernem, Valpoi and Canacona. Shri Pramod Mhadeshwar was appointed Drama teacher in Valpoi

Taluka, Kum. Tara Parab in Pernem Taluka and Shri Vvijay Kumar Naik in Canacona Taluka.
The Directorate of Education also set aside funds to cover the salaries to the teachers and for performance
and theatre-related activities. They generated interest in the School Complex on theatre being available
as an optional subject, available in the Goa Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.
to set/upgrade
The Goa Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education took suitable measures

a suitable syllabus for introducing Drama at the VIIIth to Xth level.

