[j KALA ड्डेहूँहूँ

ACADEIDV 1
GOA

VISHNU SURYA WAGI-I
Shri Vishnu Surya Wagh is a wellknown personality in the field of Goan Theatre.
Currently the Vice Chairman of Goa’s most prestigious art institution-the Kala Academy
Goa.

Shri Wagh is also the Resident Editor of Marathi daily Pudhari. At an young age of 36 years, Shri Wagh
has made his mark as one of the most talented playwrights of the post - Goa Liberation period.
Shri Wagh writes with equal ease both in Konkani and Marathi. He began his career as a writer by
writing one-act plays for inter—collegiate competitions. He has written over 20 one-act plays, prominent
among which are Andharlata, Ceasefire, Shabdakunda, Devparadh, Suvari, Abhasmaya etc.
Shri Wagh wrote his first full-length play in the year 1984 for a State level competition organised by
Gomant Vidya Niketan. The play “Eka Mansacha Mrutyu” won him the best writer award and he
never looked back afterwards. The very next year he was adjudged best playwright for his
“Dharmashree” which dealt with social and ethnic problems related to displacement of tribal people
due to big dams. His next play “Samudrapakshi” dealt with naval espionage. He also adapted George
Bucchner’s “Woyzek” into Marathi under the title “Vakshak”. “Suvari”- a Konkani play against the
backdrop of Goan liberation struggle and dealing with the cultural alienation of certain section of Goan
society established Vishnu Wagh as a sensible and deep-thinking, radical writer. His another play “Tuka
Abhang Abhang” depicting the life and philosophy of 16th century saint poet Tukararn for its
revolutionary content. However, the play won for him the best writer award in Goa State Drama festival.
Recently, Shri Wagh has adapted Bertolt Brecht’s “Three Penny Opera” into Konkani - The play “Teen

Poishancho Tiatr” is directed by Shri Shridhar Kamat Bambolkar and staged by Kala Academy’s
Repertory Company-Rangmell. His other plays include “Pedru Podlo Baient” (a social satire on
corruption), “Samrajya” (a disturbing play about political immoralities), “Smashanved” (based on
“The Invisible Bond”), Fatodful, Jat Mhaji Manshachi, etc.

Shri Vishnu Surya Wagh is also a well known poet, and acclaimed orator and social thinker.

