/

KALA
'2ACADEIIDV
GOA

AFSA R HUSSA IN
- Born in Udaipur, Rajasthan

- MA. Drawing & Painting
- National School of Drama, New Delhi in 1984 specialisation in acting.
for the Deaf.
- Awarded one year Fellowship, National School of Drama in Theatre
—

on scheme.
Central Sangeet Natak Academy selected twice for young director theatre producti
Conducted more than twenty theatre workshops in different parts of India. Directed 20 major plays
in Hindi, Marathi & Konkani.

-

Conducted more than fifty theatre workshops for normal and handicapped children, in different parts
of India .

—

Worked as a Theatre Director, in West Zone Cultural Centre, Udaipur from 1987-90
Present Status :

-

Lecturer, School of Drama, Kala Academy, Carnpal, Panaji-Goa since 1990.

-

Chief of the Repertory Company - Rangmell since Nov. 1999.

DIRECTOR/Al NOTE
I view the world with the eyes of an artiste and believe in equality in every aspect of social life. Children
from whatever social stature or set-up, able-bodied or disabled have something creative to offer to an
artiste and it is upto him to reach and grasp the opportunity, turn it into a real object through the media
of his choice: drama, painting, sculpture, music, acting, etc.
Drama is an important vehicle for releasing and nurturing the creative potential of children. An

improvisiational, non-exhibitional, process centred form of Drama in which participant’s are guided by
the Director to imagine, enact and reflect upon human experiences...

The creative rehearsal process of the play was dynamic. In this process I guided the group to improvised
action and dialogue and approached to exploration, mime, movement, theatre games improvised,
story dramatisation, group improvisation, play with the colour etc. I have always been inspired by

Universal sign language and body language of Deaf artistes, mask, puppet, acrobatics and mime. These
elements could sustain the fantasy of the play.

I he production is so designed that it can be performed anywhere and without much dependen
ce on
material facilities.

