chreographed by Chetna Jalan and 'Jugal
Bandi’, a combination of Kathak and Odissi

Kathak /OdiSSi Evening

choreographed by Sharmila Biswas and
Chetna Jalan. Recently Ileana Citaristi
(Bhubaneshwar) choreographed the newest
piece based on the blend of Chhau and Kathak
named Icarus which is being presented in this
festival.

The Kathak repertory will be presenting

various choreographies.

Kathak Dance Company
Our Kathak company initially nurtured under
the doyen of Lucknow Gharana Pt. Birju
Maharaj is at present the result of rigorous
training, rehearsals and innovative
choreography by Pt. Vijai Shankar. Apart
from senior artists it includes several devoted
young aspirants who undertake regular dance
classes at Padatik Dance Centre. The
ensemble has performed in major Indian
Dance Festivals and toured Europe
extensively. In I989 Chetna Jalan alongwith
her Kathak troupe was invited to perform a
full length show at the prestigious Kuopio
Dance Festival in Finland, at Birmingham (UK)
and West Berlin. Recently, in November I992
Chetna and the Kathak troupe performed at
the International Dance Festival in Seoul at
the invitations of Korean Government and

participated there in International dance
symposium held during the festival. On their
return they performed at Hongkong and
Bangkok. The dancers of the company
includes Luna Pan, Nilanjana Sengupta,
Indrani Sahachowdhury, Parornita Maitra,
S u s h m i ta 8 u r, N a n d i n i S i n ha , A n u pa m

५

दृ

Pt. Vijai Shankar The resident guru of Padatik

Chanda.

3
पृ,
[22

titled “AGNI”. Other innovative
choreographies include Trividh Nayika based

Dance Centre, Pt. Vijai Shankar is regarded as
one of the foremost Kathak GurUS—disciple
of Pt. Birju Maharaj, the doyen of Lucknow
gharana—earlier danced in the lead roles in
the Guru '5 balletS—besides India, regularly
perforns and conducts workshops abroad.
mainly in Japan and USA—a master of
rhythm, his dance and choreographic work is
distinguished for its softness, refinement,
and stylisation, forging a new path within the

on 3 Nayikas of Vidyapati which has been

confines of traditional sensibilities.

Beside Panditji, the Kathak company has
worked with guest choreographers-Prof.
Dietmar Seyffert from Germany, who has
created unique dance piece, “ Flight of Birds "
Smt. Kumudini Lakhia (Ahmdabad)
choreographed a new number for the troupe

