Dancer / Choreographer

Chetna Jalan the gifted dancer, dance
choreographer and director of Padatik Dance
Centre, who is also known as an actress,

received her early training in Kathak from
Guru Ram Narayan Mishra of Lucknow
Gharana—appeared in several concerts even

as a child—in 1969—70, she taught Kathak at
the Ali Akbar College of Music in San
Francisco (USA)—Later received training
under Pt. Birju Maharaj at Kathak Kendra,
New Delhi—is at present under Pt. Vijai
Shankar—has danced at several prestigious

All India Music Conferences and dance
festivals—widely travelled abroad as a soloist
and has appeared over the national television

network a number of times- at present leads
the Padatik Kathak Centre. She is also the
Vice President of the Dance Committee
(Unesco) of the International Theatre
Institute, Paris, and has been selected as a

Kathak ensemble. Recently visited Korea and
thereafter gave a solo performance in
Calcutta at Anamika Kala Sangam Festival and
also gave a solo performance in Bombay.

Parornita Maitra initially trained under Dipsri
Pal and Shri Chitya Ranjan Dasgupta— was
awarded the Sangeet Prabhakar degree by
Prayag Sangeet Samiti, Allahabad. Presently
under guidance of Pt. Vijai Shankar and
passed M.A. (Hons) in Kathak from Rabindra
Bharati University.

Nandini Sinha (M .A. BED) disciple of Pt.
Vijai Shankar is being groomed under his
tutelage for about 5 years. Diploma holder
from C.L.T. and stood 1 st in dance and vocal
at Bangiya Sangeet Sarnmelan and Geetika.
Has participated in Soorya Festival in.
Trivandrum. Recently she performed at
Sreerampore Sangit Samai.

jury—member for the Moscow Ballet

D a n c e rs

Competition in 1985 and ]989,
Luna Pan National Scholarship holder, a
senior dancer of Padatik Dance Center, a
disciple of Pt. Vijai Shankar has performed at
various festivals like the Kathak Mohotsav
(Calcutta), the Bindadin Festival (Delhi), and
the 2nd Ballet Festival (Delhi). Recently

visited Korea and also gave a solo
performance in Calcutta at Anamika Kala
Sangam Festival, at Saraccandrika as soloist
organised by Kathak Kendra, Delhi and
N rityotsav by Sangeet Nata k Akadem i . Earlier
performed at the Kuopio Dance Festival,
Finland, Oslo & Norway.

Indrani Sahachowdhury started learning
""0 Kathak under Guru Shreelekha Mukherjee—
at present training under Pt. Vijai Shankar—
was awarded the Sangeet Prabhakar degree
by Prayag Sangeet Sam iti, Allahabad.

Sushmita Sur a senior dancer of Kathak
repertory. Has performed in many of the
important festivals of India. Like lTC

Sponsered 3 cities dance festivals, Bindadian
Mahotsav etc. At present she is under the

guidance of renowned Guru Pt. Viaji Shankar
at Padati k .

Ashim Bandhu Bhattacharya disciple of
Sm. Sushmita Mishra (wife of Late Pandit

Lane Music Conference and performed at

Ram Gopal Mishra) and Pt. Vijai Shankar in
both School Jaipur and Lucknow. MA. in
Dance from Rabindra Bharati University,
holder of National Scholership from Govt. of
India. Performed in many prestigious music

their festival as a soloist. She has performed
at various festivals in India and also performed
in Finland, Oslo and Norway with the Padatik

festivals and conferences in India. Regular
artist of Doordarshan. One of the leading male
Dancer of Padatik Dance Repertory.

Nilanjana Sengupta National scholarship

holder. A disciple of Pt. Vijai Shankar. Stood
first in the talent search contest of the Dover

