Actors

Kulbhushan Kharbanda a founder member

Kunal Padhi associated with Padatik since

of Padati k bears testimony to his love for theatre
from his early age. In 1967, he had founded
the Delhi based theatre group ’Abhiyan' along
with people like Rajendranath and others. Having
moved over“ to Bombay in 1977, Kharbanda
found himself flooded with offers for all kinds
of roles, and has gradually become a successful

1986 has been involved in most productions.
Designed, Directed and acted in the workshop
production of "The Elephant Man” in ]989-

actor. He had been very popular after acting

in the film Shaan. Currently, though Kulbhushan
has a packed schedule with several films in
Bombay, he still manages to take off some
time to visit Calcutta to act for Padatik's play.

ChetnaJalan received her training in theatre
at The American Conservatory Theatre, San

Francisco, underwent a course in Mass Media
at The Standford University in 1969-70...acted
in play directed by eminent Theatre directOrs
like Satyadev Dubey, Fritz Bennewitz, William
Ball, Welforrn Mehrin, Rajinder Nath, Ranjit
Kapoor and Shyamanand Jalan. Also a Kathak
dancer and choreographer of repute, she has
been a jury member of International Ballet
Festivals (Moscow) 1985 & '89 and Co-President
of the Dance Committee of lTl (U nesco) . Has
performed all over the world.

Shakil Khan has given stage performances in

more than 25 plays and also acted in tele-films
and TV. Serials. worked with directors like
Ranjit Kapoor, Shyamanand Jalan, Fritz
Bennewitz and Rodney Marriott.
Pradip Roy has been acting with Padati k since

1976... has appeared on screen under the
directions of Mrinal Sen, Kalpana Lazarni,

Mahmud Alam joined Padatik in 1986 and
has been involved practically in productions
since then has worked with directors like
Satyadeo Dubey. Fritz Bennewitz, Shyamanand
Jalan and Rodney Marriott.

Sanchayita Bhattacharya started acting on
the English stage... joined padatik in 1987...
has worked with directors like Satyadeo Dubey,
Anrnol Vellani, Fritz Bennewitz, Shyamanand
Jalan and Rodney Marriott.
Shampa Ghosh has been associated with
Padatik since 1988 also acted for IPTA and
Anarnika... has worked with directors like Anrnol
Vellani, Fritz Bennewitz, and Shyamanand Jalan.

Ashok Singh acted in more than 30 theatre
productions and several T.V. serials and
telefilms... worked with directors like Satyajit
Ray, Kalpana Lazami, Tripti M itra, Ranjit Kapoor
M.K.~ Raina and others. Acted in serials like
'Gandevata' and ’Lohit Kinare'.
Baishakhi Marjit started acting in stage and
television in 1986. Since then has performed
in many plays. Worked with the groups like
’Chenamukh' ’Epic Actors’s workshop' and
'Prama'. The TV. serials in which she has
acted are 'Kolkata Kolkata', 'Debotar Bandhi'
and 'Rakshasgan', 'Charitraheen’ etc.
Fo r

Shyamanand Jalan and others.

Shyamanand Jalan
Vinay Sharma

B.M. Hada has acted in more than 20 plays...

Dinesh Poddar
Anil K. Elias

has also appeared in telefilms and TV. Serials.

P/ease see on the next page.

