Classical Music Joins the Bandwagon
Six-memberfasion band Samarpan creates a newform of music By DIANA SAHU

FI1he 2ist Guru Kelucharan childhood friends. As musicians,
Award Festival 2015 that we were accompanying different
was recently hosted by Srjan artistes and used to meet often for
at Bhubaneswar offered a classi— programmes. One day, we decided
cal surprise to the connoisseurs of to form a band, which would take a
music in the form of Samarpan—an contemporary approach to Indian
Indian classical fusion band.
classical music while retaining
Six young members of the band its purity,” says Ojas, who ﬁnds a
created music from the rich tradi- mention in the Li'mca Book ofRetion of Indian classical ‘raagas', cords as the youngest tabla player
which appealed to people across in the country.
generations at the festival. RetainThe band was named Samarpan
ing the purity of complex rhythm as the young musicians wanted to
structures, they presented sever) offer gratitude to their respective
compositions beginning with ‘Raa— music gurus. “We did not start with
ga Bachaspati’ in a modern sound- a commercial motive. Our aim is to
scape using saxophone, keyboard take Indian classical music to the
and drums as accompaniment in
ﬁve to 10 minute-long capsules. Although deeply rooted in the Indian
classical tradition, their music was i
global in every sense ofthe word.
The line-up is also quite interesting. Ojas Adhiya plays the tabla,
Vishal Dhumal is onthe keyboards,

i

Ninad Mulaokar on theﬂute, Manas
Kurriar onthe violin, I D Rao aka ID
creates noise with the saxophone
and Gautam Sharma takes charge
ofthe percussions. All ofthem are

in the age group of 20 to 25.
Ojas, Vishal, Ninad and Manas

are Grade Aartistes of the All India
Radio (AIR) while, ID and Gautam
have played for shows like Indian
Idol and MTVCoke Studio at regu—

lar intervals. All six of them have

[From left) Ninad Mulaokar. I D Rao 0
Dhumal, Gautam Shanna and Manas Kumar' दृ…

been associatedwith the Bollywood
music industry for many years.
Samarpan was formed five
years back by Ojas, Vishal, Ninad

and Manas, while Gautam and
ID joined in 2011. “Four of us are

youth and celebrate the great glory,"
says Ninad, a gifted ﬂutist who has
played with eminent singers like
Ustad Rashid Khan, Hariharan,
Pankaj Udhas and ’I‘alat Aziz.

So far, they have come up with
10 original compositions and an
album, which goes by the name
of the band. So how is Samarpan
different from others in the Indian

band scene?
’ “We will not say that we are different from others or we are doing

something \‘ery different. We are
just trying to present traditional
Indian music in a new format so
that it appeals to the youth. In fact.
our gurus have created so much मां
music that we cannot accomplish
half of the work that they have
done in their lifetime," answers
violinist Manas.
Although each oi them has a
different style, the musicians
make sure they perform within
the parameters of the iaal‘ and
‘raaga’. This was evident in their
instrumental fusion ofthe timeless
Sariibalpuri folk song Rain/u/mti
with Irish music, an impromptu
‘jugalbandi' of tabla and drums
besides one of their compositions
Rusiya, which is another 'jugal—
bandi‘ between ID on saxophone
and Ninad on the flute that they
played at the festival.
“Playing Rangabati was an iii—
staiitarieous decision that we took
moments before the show for all
the Odias who attended the cul—
tural festival. Since Rangabati
is a folk song, we decided to per—
form it with saxophone in a bid
to give it an Irish touch." says ID.
The Rangabatz' fusion fetched them
a standing ovation.
For them, purity ofclassical riiu—
sic inatters the most. " For example.
I could be playing raaga Bheem—
palasi with the accompaniment
of saxophone and drums but the
raaga is performed in all its purity.“
explains Ojas.
Through their endeavour, the
band of boys wants to take classical
music to the younger generation.

