Playwright .- William Shakespeare
William Shakespeare was an English poet and playwright,
widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English
language and the world's preeminent dramatist. Pie is often
called England's national poet and the "Bard ofAvon ". His
surviving works consist of 3 8 plays, 154 sonnets, two long
narrative poems, and several other poems. I'le was born on

26 April 1564 and raised in Stratford—upon—Avon. At the
age of 1 8, he married Anne Hathaway, who horn him three
children.- Susanna, and twins Elamnet and Judith. Between 1585 and

1 592, he began a successful career in‘London as an actor, writer, and part
owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later
known as the King '5 Men. He appears to have retired to Stratford around
1613, where he died three years later. Shakespeare produced most of his
known work between 1590 and 161 3. [dis early plays were mainly
comedies and histories, genres he raised to the peak of sophistication and
artistry hy the end of the sixteenth century. Pie then wrote mainly tragedies
until about 1608, including Plamlet, King Lear, and Macheth, considered

some ofthefinest works in the English language. On 2 3 April 1 61 6 at the
age of 52 he died Stratford—upon-Avon, Warwickshire, England.
Director .- Noushad Mohd
Born in Kerala in 1967. Actor and Theatre Trainer—
Graduated from Calicut University, School of Drama and

Fine Arts and the National School of Drama (NSD) in
New Delhi, after working at the NSD Repertory Company
as a professional actor, he completed the Theatre Training
and Research Programme in Singapore. fie has been involved in various
collaboration projects with different countries like Japan, Singapore,

Piong-Kong, Korea, Taiwan, Nepal and Canada. Presently he is the
Artistic Director at Sh ri Ra m Centrefor Performing Arts.

_।

'I'i'anslator .- RaghuvirSahay
Raghuvir Sahay (1929-1990) was a versatile Hindi poet,
८ short—story writer, essayist, literary critic , translator, and
' journalist. Pie remained the chief—editor of noted, political—

social, Hindi weekly, Dinmaan, 1 9 6 9—8 2 . He was awarded
the 1984 Sahitya Akademi Award in Hindi for his poetry
collection, Log Bhool Gaye Hain (They Have Forgotten, —
1 9 8 2). Fiis other noted works are Atmahatya Ke Viruddh, Hanso Hanso
Jaldi Hanso and Seedhiyon Par Dhoop Mein.

