Shri Ram Center for Performing Arts

SHRI RAM CENTRE FOR PERFORMING ARTS grew out of what was originally
known as Indian National Theatre, heralding a revival in the lndian Cultural scene. दृ
Shri Ram Centre is one of the leading Cultural Organisation in India and has all '1!
along been striving hard to nurture and develop talent in the field of Performing Arts
and our programmes are organised to achieve this end.

S R C THEATRE REPERTORY COMPANY
In 1980 the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre Repertory
Company, the aim being to produce meaningful plays by well known play-wrights to
create an involvement with theatre amongst theatre lovers. Besides performing
regularly in Delhi, SRC Repertory undertakes trips to other parts of the country as
well. Our Repertory Company has the honour of working with eminent Directors like

Rajendra Nath, Ranjit Kapoor, B.V. Karanth, Habib Tanvir, B.M.Shah, Bansi Kaul.
Piyush Mishra, Suresh Sharma, Roysten Abel, Sanjay Upadhyay, Bapi Bose, Avtar
Sahni, Chittaranjan Tripathi, Urrnil Kumar Thapliyal & Mushtaq Kak.

ACTING COURSE
To encourage young amateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts
conducts a two year part time training programmes. The 1 st year is devoted to in" depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt
are integrated into production on Indian-classical, experimental, Western and

modern-lndian dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of actors to
sustain the Hindi-theatre's future. Students who complete the course with exellent
grades are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School of Drama or

the Media.

S R C CHILDRENTHEATREWORKSHOP

रा-त्/ममवg» -रt

क्या हैरु tr:

l

jCl o फु"

. ..... . _, ......,
हैं मृ ~

To inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage'BT ride, pﬁgularly amongst

younger generations, SRC has been organizing production oriented Children
Theatre Workshop every year and this endeavour has been widely welcomed by

one and all, including media.

