नंस्म प्र;

SHAKUNTALA

‘
reat
The gods were often jealous of anyone attaining
sion
powers through meditation, and such Was an occ
when they sent Menaka, the celestial dancer, to lure Vi vamitra away from achieving spiritual puissance. Succe mg“
in her mission, a baby girl was born to the enchantress.
The curtain rises with Menaka leaving the child near meditating rishi Kanva, who adopts her as his daughter —-— and
the story of Shakuntala begins.
Brought up in the hermitage, belonging to nature, Shakuntala

grows up to be a woman of unusual beauty

One day the

king Dushyanta, out on a hunt, chances upon her and the
fateful meeting culminates in their getting married through
Eventually the king returns, leaving
Gandharva rites.
Shakuntala behind with a promise that she would be fetched

within the number of days as symbolised in a ring presented
to her.

To the hermitage comes the ﬁery sage Durvasa, and
Shakuntala, engrossed in her own thoughts, fails to notice
him. Affronted by this impudence, the sage is provoked to a

stormy rage and curses that whomsoever she is thinking of,
Alarmed at this, Shakuntala’s friends
would forget her.
entreat the sage for forgiveness. Relenting, he says that the
curse would be redeemed with a gift she received from him.

In due course Shakuntala is sent to her husband’s place and
unknowingly, the ring on her ﬁnger drops in the water.

At the palace the bridal entourage faces the most unexpected
predicament when Dushyant fails to recognise Shakuntala.
The raj-purohit takes pity on the unfortunate girl and offers
her shelter.

Unable to bear this plight,

Menaka takes away

Shakuntala, who gives birth to a son in the hermitage of
sage Marich.

The lost ring mysteriously returns to the king as it is found

by a ﬁsherman.

Regaining

his

memory,

the

repentant

Dushyant yearns for Shakuntala.

Returning from a

successful ﬁght against the demons in

defence of the gods, the king comes to the hermitage of
rishi Marich where he sees a playing child who is none other

than the son of Shakuntala.
reunion of the family.

This leads to the ﬁnal happy

