(ख्वा 3 3'8 ० )
Creative Talent
Bobby Bedi (Producer; The Mahabharata Series)

“When I started working on the Mahabharata two years ago, feature ﬁlms were my primary
target. However, whenever I discussed this idea with anyone, I came back frustrated because
everyone I spoke to felt that I was missing out on the most interesting and complex character in
legendary history ‘Karna.’ I knew that there was a ﬁlm just in Karna’s story but it spanned the
entire Mahabharata and if I made it, it would frustrate my efforts to handle the Epic. The ﬁnal
resolution came when Farrukh Dhondy suggested a stage show capturing the essential ‘Karna.’
I had initial misgivings of the stage being able to handle the epic proportions of the subject, but
they were dispelled when I saw Rudra”s ‘City oijinns’
Bobby is the producer of many award—winning ﬁlms like Bandit Queen, Fire, Saathiya,

Maqbool and Mangal Pandey among others.
Rudradeep Chakrabarti (Director)
A postgraduate from Rabindranath Tagore University and NSD, Rudradeep is becoming a
major directorial force in Indian theatre. He is a playwright and a teacher of design and
direction in NSD's Extension program throughout the country. His directorial works include
‘Macbeth in pyro—techniques,’ ‘Three cities in the Life of Dr. Norman Bethune,’ ‘A Midsummer
Night‘s Dream,” and “City of Djinns.’
Farrukh Dhondy (Writer)

Farrukh is a novelist, short story and screenplay writer, and journalist. He obtained a BSc. from
Poona University and soon after was awarded a scholarship to read English at Cambridge from
where he moved to Leicester University for his Master’s degree. Dhondy worked as
Commissioning Editor for Channel 4 (UK) for 13 years. He writes articles for Indian
publications like The Pioneer, Asian Age and India Today. He has written the scripts for Bandit
Queen & Mangal Pandey and is a Creative Consultant with Kaleidoscope.
“The Mahabharata is the fount of all narrative. In writing ‘KARNA — Warrior of the Sun,’ the
story of Kama, I was struck and compelled by the traces in it of the other great universal stories
that have followed 2— that of Moses, of Achilles, of Shakespear’s ‘Coriolanus,’ and even
Firdousi’s ‘Rustom and Sohrab.’ It is the ﬁrst story of a unique destiny of valour,
disappointment, and destiny, and I hope we have told it adequately.”
Varsha Bedi (Producer)
A post-graduate in Social Work from DS SW, Varsha is the Associate Producer of many feature
ﬁlms including Bandit Queen, Fire, Saathiya and Mangal Pandey. She has also produced a TV

drama, Rajdhani, which is a tale of power and politics in the social milieu of New Delhi. She has
been working with Kaleidoscope for the last 20 years.
Shivani Wazir Pasrich (Producer)

Shivani graduated from Delhi University (Economics Hons.) and then completed her law
degree. She won the Miss India Worldwide in 1992 and is a professional Odissi dancer, TV
presenter, actor and compere. Shivani has anchored various television programs and has acted
in television serials and ﬁlms including Mumkin, Batooni, Kashmakash, Hame Jahan Pyar

Mile, and Dil To Pagal Hai. She has also acted in many musicals and plays including Annie,
West Side Story, The Maids, Who Done It, Dance Like a Man, Where There's a Will and

Bravely Fought The Queen.

