क्या

Cast in order of appearance

9n Directing Sundari

Sundari Jitu Shastri
Harish Khanna

' वृ'
1

[At the outset I should like to thank Shri Dinkar

Bhojak, Shri Jaishankar Sundari’s son for his
' ३ ‘ generous help and consideration. He has made this
play possible. We are grateful for his support.
मैं

५

There have been two major routes to this text on

Sundari; One via an autobiography, especially an
actor’s autobiography; and the other via the possible
meanings female impersonation might have in our
times.
An actor’s autobiography is a sort of manual from
which one gleans the ways in which he/she prepares
-- we have tried to image such preparation -- which
means laying open the tools of observation, motivation, physical exercise, to view; the kit modern actors

put to use and of which Sundari talks passionately
and in great detail.
Female impersonation has been thought and
rethought over the years. One of our concerns is the
relationship of this Man/Woman to women, to men,
to viewers, to fellow actors. We have tried to work

through these ideas always within the frame of the
theatre. Each scene attempts to recall the stage, the
wings, the make-up room, rehearsal, practice,
everyday observation. In some senses we have
always tried to return to the problematic of acting,
and the stories around that.

The process has been of working and reworking the
autobiography with the actors and that has yielded a
text that Ceetanjali Shree and Dinesh Khanna have
ﬁnalised. The actors, Jitu Shastri, Harish Khanna,

Pratibha Sharma, Jagat Singh Rawat were part of the
process of devising the script from the very start;
Shameem Sheikh, Kalpesh Modi, and Sudhir

Kulkarni joined at a later date. They have all in fact
produced the theatrical language through their
improvisations. The work is a collaboration between

Jagat Singh Rawat
Nala Harish Khanna
Damayanti Pratibha Sharma
Dada Bhai Ratanji 'I'humthi Harish Khanna
Suhasini Pratibha Shanna
Tel Wali Ladki Pratibha Sharma
Kumudsundari Harish Khanna
Parsi Ladki Sharneem Sheikh
Gulab Pratibha Sharma
Saubhagya Harish Khanna
Sundari Jagat Singh Rawat
Fazal Husain Kalpesh Modi
Bapulal Nayak Sudhir Kulkarni

Credits
Front Curtain Bhupen Khakhar
Visual Design Nilima Sheikh
Sets Painted by Nilima Sheikh
Soumen Das
Manoj Nayak
Satyendra
Swan Float & Paper Designs Shamsul Haque
Stage Technology Amarj eet
Music Design Vidya Rao
Hannonium/Org'an Jayaram Potdar
Manjira/J’hanjh/Dholak Caurang Choudhary
Sound Operation Suman Kumar
Lights Design Zuleikha Allana
Costume Kriti V Sharma
Brochure & Poster lshtihaar
Assisted by Alka Singh & Indu
Makeup Harish
Props & Stage Management Daulat Vaid
Production Control Daulat Vaid
Assisted by Rajesh, Ravindra
Stage hands Digambar Rana
Praveen Shersiya
Research, Translation,

and Adaptation Dinesh Khanna
Transcription from Gujarati Aruna Patel
Dramatisation Ceetanjali Shree
Dinesh Khanna
Direction

Anuradha Kapur

Nilima Sheikh, Bhupen Khakhar, Vidya Rao, Dinesh

Khanna, Geetanjali Shree, the actors and myself.
The text has been fashioned with ideas that have
crisscrossed from all of us -- to that extent then it is
not seamless. Lastly, I should like to thank Shailesh
Kapadia for introducing us to Sundari and for the
many debates we have had together.
Anuradha Kapur

Thanks to Vasundhara Komkali for Kumar Candharva’s
Natyageet, Bhairavi and Mishra Kaﬁ, Vinayak Torvi for
Khambavati Tarana and Jaunpuri, Reba Muhury for Meera
Bhajan, Narendra Shrimali for Sundari’s recordings.

Among the texts quoted in the play are Shakespeare’s Hamlet translated by Amrit Raj and Othello translated by
Diwakar Prasad Vidyarthi; and a version of Nala Damayanti
by Radhavallabh Tripathi.

