Set & Light Design

Suresh Bhardwaj did his M.A. from Annamalai
University. He joined National School of Drama in
the year 1977, and graduated with diploma of
integrated course in theatre arts. He was awarded the
NSD fellowship to work with newly established
Extension Program Department of National School
of Drma in the field of theatre academics in 1980—81 .
he joined Madhya Pradesh Rangrnandal, Bharat

assassins" published as "jaayaz Hatyare' is well appreciated.
He has also worked for television and films as art director
and director. Some of his notable productions are; Ek
Kahani, Lekhu, Aapki Adalat, Tete-A-Tete with

Khuswant Singh, Uth Jaag Musaﬁr etc., He has also
produced and directed a series on rare forms of
performing arts for Doordarshan i.e. Phad, Sannata.
Bhootaradhna and Veshagararu etc.

He

has visied

Bhavan as Technical Director from its inception, the

Srilanka, Maldives, Denmark, China, Thailand, Australia,

year was 1981 and continued till 1984. He made his
presence felt again in 1984 on his return to Delhi by
directing "Adhe Adhure" and 'Solah January Ki Raat'
for Sambhav theatre group. He has directed about
twenty plays for various groups and in workshops
throughout the country.

Singapore, japan, Mauritius etc. in connection with
various theatre workshops and play productions etc. He

He is known for his contributions in the field of stage

landmark productions he has directed for this group. He

lighting and has about more than 200 plays to his

has been on the Visiting faculty of School since 1984 and

directed

"Adhe

Adhure"

in

Spanish

for

National

University of Columbia.
His theatre group 'Aks' is well known and "Prem

Samvaad" "Saari Raat" and "Aur Agle Saal" are the

credit as Lighting Designer. He has also designed sets

joined NSD on a regular basis in 1989 as lecturer of stage

for a number of plays.

lighting. He became associate professor in 1996 and has

He has travelled extensively within India and abroad

also worked as Dean (Academics) from May 2000 to july

and has conducted a number of theatre workshops

2002. He was apointed as Professor of Extension

with amateurs and professional organizations and has

Programs in February 2002.

directed many plays. His adaptations of Camu's " ust

