N AT W A
A DELHI TH EATRE COMPANY

दु

क्या' ३

DIRECTOR ’8 NOTE

RAAT BAAKI- a farcical comedy, is a contemporary hindi adaptation of “Black Comedy’ (where
dark is light and nothing is as it seems), an acclaimed 1960s farce from the pen of Peter Shaffer, who also
wrote the famous plays ‘Equus’ and ‘Amadeus’. Raat Baaki sets the action in a 3 tenant house in a lower—
middle class colony of Delhi, during an electrical blackout. The darkness, of course, exists only for the

people onstage, since everything that happens after the electricity has gone, in this world of theatre, is
performed in a blaze of stage.

Rajan Jha, an artist and his fiancee Kavita Chadha have “borrowed/stolen” the fancy furniture and
artifacts from neighbour Harish Sharma's flat in order to impress Kavita’s father, Colonel Chadha, and a

millionaire art buyer Mr. Prabhudeva (who is rumored to be deaf). Rajan—Kavita, are afraid that the Colonel
will not give his daughter to a starving artist. Things go awry when the lights go out, leaving Raian helpless
as other characters arrive, one by one. First to come is Raian’s elderly neighbor, Miss Aarti; next to arrive is
Colonel Chadha, unimpressed by the blackout; and Rajan’s worst nightmare comes true as Harish returns
early from his vacation. \‘C'hile waiting for the millionaire, Rajan tries desperately to return the furniture in
the darkness without Harish noticing. The plot gets complicated as more guests arrive.
Despite being a rip—roaring comedy, audiences shall appreciate the principal unifying element of the

entire play— its focus on lies and deception by seemingly innocent neighbourly characters. The physical
‘darkness’ assists to keep secrets, hiding both the identity and the actions of the players from each other but
7

the ‘moral darkness’ of all the characters lies bare in bright lights for the audience.

Chittaranj an Tripathy

३

Chittaranian Tripathy is a multi—talented theatre/media personality—act<>r, director, writer,
and music composer, with deep passion for theatre and involvement in TV & films.
;\

Masters in Sociology, Chittaranjan did his 3 years diploma in Acting from National School
of Drama (NSD) in 1996 and thereafter was associated with the NSD Repertory
Company. His direction and handling of the (now famous) play ‘Tai Mahal Ka
Tender’ for NSD Repertory has been appreciated by one and all and the play has
been running to laughter filled houses since 199%} He is one of the few
proponents of Musical Theatre having done a course in ‘musical theatre
direction’ from Guildford School of Acting, L'lsi. Time permitting he

teaches Musical Theatre at N SD too. He has directed over 25 plays in Hindi,
English 8: ( )riya. His productions at Shri Ram Center Repertory and Sahitya
Kala Parishad are well remembered by Delhi audiences: Capital Express;
Ladi Nazaria; Are Mayavi Sarovar, and l lamare Sheher Ke Romeovluliet.
He
has conducted production oriented workshops with schools, street children,

school teachers and management trainees. He has written and adapted
several plays and has composed music for more than 30 productions. He has
directed a few TV serials and composed music for several
serials and
telehlms. He has made a short film ‘/\aj Tak ....l\'uchh
Sarhadi Sachh’,

featuring Pankai Kapur.

३३३
,1

,हूँच्चोंश्याहौ a "५ 3 Q q. दु."

" O "हैं

