If N80 is interested in training their actors for this kind of theatre don't
you feel that it would be right to frame the syllabas in such a way that

more time is devoted to the training of the actors in these traditional forms,
instead of going for an ”instant traditional theatre" in one month camp
which many a time is a failure or a compromise?

It depends on the kind of production you do.

We have done Andha yug.

I don't impose any complicated movement of traditional forms in this.
tried only to bring the essence, basic elements of traditional forms.

I

Even

those basic elements should serve the purpose of the play.

One of the criticisms levelled against this trend is that some impose a
lot of traditional element which are actually not needed in the play but
done to blow up the play with the traditional elements.
about this?

I know that it is becoming a fashion in India.

What do you say

I don't think this will serve

any purpose.

I use traditional elements only when it is needed.

example you

have ‘Therukkoothu' in Tamil Nadu.

For

A modern man is

sitting in this room. He receives a telephone call. Suddenly "Therukkoothu"
music comes.

Now If I utilse modern drum beat here it will not save the

purpose of that character.

Because the character belongs to Tamil Nadu.

The music here creates a mood which is very earthy.

your

”Urubhangam"

and K.

N.

Panikkar’s

"Madhyama Vyayog”

8'

”Shakuntalam" are considered to be the ideal examples of this trend.
Can you tell me how you differ from Panikkar?

You see, Panikkar is a very imaginative and very learned person and he
also knows music Katha Kali etc.

His ’Madhyam vyayog' set an example

how classical elements can become part of modern play. I don't know
how I differ from Panikkar. l disign my production basically in a very very

particular way with so many questions.

In ”Urubhangam" I tried to

classify the characters in modern context, in the modern age of Freud,
Einstein and Karl Marx. We can’t ignore socio, political, economical Er

religious factors.

