AMAYANTI Joshi has been

hailed

after

Sitara, who (we have to admit) is now

beyond her prime, as the ﬁnest exponent of
Kathak alive today.
Kathak has had an unfortunate history.
Derived from the Bharat Natya Shastra as the
northern variant of the basic classical style, it
was for centuries greatly inﬂuenced, and modiﬁed, by its chief patrons, the Mogul princes.
Under them it developed in the direction of
pure virtuosity, with a corresponding loss of
genuine artistry, and ultimately became notorious, in it debauched form, as

the “nautch”

of disrespectable dancing girls.
Damayanti Joshi is the one performer today
who is consciously trying to purify Kathak in
the face of a public that still demands tricks and

virtuosity.
Recently in Delhi for a Government
sponsored show her performance was described
by “The Statesman” (which, as regular readers
will know, is usually highly critical of Kathak
dancers and Kathak recitals) as “brilliant”.

Damayanti Joshi was introduced to the
Delhi public by The Little Theatre Group in
1954, when the demand for tickets resulted
in an extra show being

hurriedly arranged.

Except for three official shows not open to the
public she has not danced in the capital since.
Now, then, is an opportunity for dance lovers
to see Kathak at its ﬁnest. The dates are
March 3 and 4. The place—Sapru House.
For those that are not conversant with
Indian classical dance it will be of interest to
know that the most characteristic feature of
Kathak is the ﬁxed stare of the dancer’s eyes.
In the words of Faubian Bowers, “She lowers

her head as if in modesty, but the eyes remain
ﬁxed on the patron or audience in front. The
eyes peer out from just under the upper lid.
This look has become synonymous in India
with voluptuous allurement.” We may add
that it is maintained through the most rapid
and exciting moments of the nritt (or pure
dance) of the Kathak repertoire.
But Damayanti Joshi is more concerned
With the Nritya of Kathak. “The aim of
good Kathak dancers must now be to restore

Kathak its great powers of story telling,” she

maintains.

'

D A M AYA N Tl
JOS H l

