ABOUT

ROS H A N

VA] I F DA R

ROSHAN Vajifdar who received her ﬁrst
training as a dancer under the guidance
of her distinguished sister Shirin, had
the advantage of studying the various forms
of the Indian Classical Dance with some of
the best known of masters of classical dancing
and Kathakali dancing under Guru Krishna
Kutty.
With unswerving devotion she pursued
her studies and training. After winning the
Government of India award for advanced
studies in Bharata Natyam. she specialised
in this great tradition of Classical dance of
South India.
Her early studies in Bharata Natyam were
under the tutelage of Guru Mahalingam Pillai.
Later she studied with the well known master
of the Pandanallur School, Sri Chokkalingam
Pillai. the son of the late master Meenakshi
Sundrarn Pillai.
Endowed with a rare stage personality
and qualities essential for a great dancer
she was acclaimed by critics and the public
from the earliest days of her career.
Her first public performances were with
her sister Shirin Vajifdar and later with the
Nritya Darpana Ballet. As a member of these
ballets she toured North India, Ceylon and

Europe. Her European debut was an outstanding success. She was honoured by an
invitation to perform as the solo dancer at
the recital in honour of the Secretary General
of U. N. 0. Under the patronage of the Prime
Minister and later the Music Academy of
Madras, invited her to give a dance recital
during their I956 session.
In I957, she gave a number of highly
successful performances in Delhi as well as

5 O M E

Bombay and was widely acclaimed as an outstanding exponent of Bharata Natyam. She has
also continued her advance research work in
Bharata Natyam in order to bring back some
of its earlier forms.

P R E S S

“Regarding her technique. Absolutely ﬂawless. Movements precise,
with
the right
amount ofﬂuidity.
Not once did she overdo it,
as far as tempo at least. Which enabled her to
achieve that sculpturesque grace for which
Bharata Natyam is noted and so few achieve.”
—'I'he Bombay Sentinel.
“Miss Vajifdar’s exquisite movements and
excellent, soulfulfacia/ expressions gave a truly
live sculptural eﬁ’ect, as she combined a startling/y perfect technique with feminine grace and
intense feeling. Her rendering of the Mohini
Attam was exquisite in the true sense of the

word.

O P | N l O N S
Undoubtedly one of the most beautiful

exponents of the Romantic School, she must be
seen to be believed.”
—0nlooker.
“Her mastery of the classical technique was
evident in Alarippu and Sabdam. In Varnam
which was a Ragmalika on Saivite theme she
attempted “Sancharibhava” illustrative and interpretational of Shivology, which is a hallmark
of scholarship. Even spacing andﬁne demarcation
between Nritta and Abhinaya were the highlights
of her rendering of the Varnam and this balance
was kept up to the last.”

——The Bombay Chronicle.

