THE LITTLE THEATRE GROUP
Flat l0, Shankar Market, NEW. DELHI.
BRIEF HISTORY

The Little Theatre Group was formed in Lahore in 1945 and moved to New Delhi at
the time of partition. The group has staged 27 full length plays and ﬁve programmes of one
act plays, in addition to sponsoring many classical and folk dance recitals and annual Visits
of The International Theatre Company, “Shakespeareana”.
In November 1949 the Group organised the ﬁrst All-India Drama Festival

and

Conference, and in April 1955 the ﬁrst All-India Theatre Arts Exhibition. In October 1954
the Postal Centenary Exhibition authorities gave the Group the responsibility of organising a

full month of cultural programmes at the Exhibition Theatre and in January 1955 the Group
managed the visit to New Delhi of Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis Casson for the British
Council.
In November 1955 the Group was the only amateur organisation to be included in the
ofﬁcial Ministry of Education cultural programme arranged for the delegates to the UNESCO
General Conference. On the occasion the Group staged an English rendering of the Sanskrit
comedy “Ratnavali”.

In March 1957 the Group won the Delhi Natya Sangha Award for the best production
of the season with “The Teahouse of the August Moon.”

The Group holds regular meetings when plays are read, lectures given, ﬁlms shown or
other activities held and publishes a monthly news bulletin “Theatre News.” The Group is at
present ﬁnalising plans to set up a Theatre Arts Training Centre in the capital, which will
include a fully equipped theatre.

PATRONS
Sir Laurence Olivier

General K. M. Cariappa, D.S.O,

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chairman : Professor N. R. Malkani, M. P.
Arts Director: Mr. Inder Dass

General Secretary : Mr. L. C. Nirula.

Treasurer : Mr. Y. P. Tandan.

Business Manager : Mr. E. H. K. Sen.
Social Secretary : Mrs. Satya Nirula.
Members : Mrs. Ansuya Dass,
Mrs. G. Schlemann-Gupta,
Mrs. Rajkumari Gupta,
Major Michael Overman,

Mr. V. K. Srivastava,

Mr, B, s, Kohli.

