शुणुछूछुमुभुणुणुणुणुछुणुणुशुणुणुधुणुछुणु

they are in his court, an oracle declares that he has
foreseen signs of destruction for the state. Some
sinner has definitely stepped into their kingdom.
The King refuses to believe that it could be his own
wife. Radha delivers a boy in the meanwhile. She
remembers the advice of her mother that she should
offer her first - born to the river. However, the
couple cannot abandon their child in this cruel
manner. There are many signs of displeasure of the
Gods. There is a drought in the kingdom People
have to live a very miserable life. Ultimately they
take heart to tell the king that sin resides in his
palace. The couple finally decide to abandon their
infant, supposedly the root cause of all the evil.

At this moment, it is revealed through flash-back
that the kind himself was born to Radha, immediately
( A case of parthenogenesis where reprduction may
take place without any sexual relationship: ) The
King and Radha realise that they themselves are
guilty of incest. The King commits suicide, to atone
for his sins.

However, the serious play provides plenty of comic
relief and comment through the characters of the
Kirtankar and the court jester. They link up or
Contrast the story with the present.
The colourful costumes and use of traditional folkdance- and musical forms add another dimension to
the play. The dance forms include' Ganesh Nritya,
Gaulan, Lavani, Classical Dance, etc. While the
musical score makes use of ’Bhajan, Kirtan, Lavani,
Ovi, Mangalashtaka, Dhangari & Koli music, etc., In
short it is a colourful pageantry of folk art presented
with the help of modern theatrical techniques.

The playwright Mr. Ashok Paranjpe is wellknown
for his research in the folk music and art. Mr. Aji t
Satbhai the director has established himself as a
sensible and sensitive director. Mr. Ram Kadarn
the noted Marathi music composer is a living
encylopaedia of music. Krishnadeo Mulgund, the
choreographer has earned much fame in the last

