Weave a Tale
A storytelling group brings to the fore folk tales
from across India in Hindustani
SOMYA LAK HANI
DELHI HAS never been easy for Nicky
Chandam. A young Manipuri girl when she
ﬁrst reached Delhi, Chandam was called a
“chinki”, pelted stones at by colony kids for
looking different,and didn't feel included at
work either. “I think the onlyreason people
accepted me here was because I picked up
Hindustaniand Urdu," says Chandam, 31. Itis

this love for her language, and her need to
get Delhi to understand Northeastern culture that made Chandam come up with
Wari. a storytelling project, in Delhithisjune.
“Wari means story in Manipuri, and the aim
is to bring folk tales from across the country
and interpret them in Hindustani andUrdu,”
saysChandam.
At antiSOCIAL in Hauz Khas Village. two
weeks ago, four poet's spent an evening doingjust this.Meerut—based poet Azhar Iqbal

Nicky Chandam; Azhar Iqbal (right)
Dipnendu Choudhary

recited Bewkuﬁyon KiSultanate.
his Urdu interpretation of oneof
AK Ramanujan's short stories.
Theatre
actor
Abhinav
Sabyasachi brought to the fore
Kashmiri poet and mystic Lal
Ded, intertwined with stories of
Habba Khatoon. and other
Kashmiri folk tales. Anuja
Jaiman presented a dramatic
Manipuri tale. Houdong
Lamboiba aka TheMonk Cat, leaving the audience in splits. “When I came to Delhi from
Imphal, I tasted freedom for the first time.
There were no banth here, people actually
worked. But I still felt suffocated because I
was only hangingout with Manipuri people.
I needed to get to know other people.” says
Chandam, who started Octave Foundation,

with a project aimed at making Northeastern communities mingle with other cornrnunities. While that didn’t
work, she began Wari to get
the stories out. “Apart from
. folk tales, we want to bring
post-modern literature to the
stage too. Eachchapter should
be different from the other.
One chapter may also be
about issues such as AFSPA or the Kashmir
issue," says Jaiman.
With performances at India Habitat
Centre,The Attic. and OddBirdTheatre. Wari
chapters areincreasingly gainingpopularity.
They perform next at a pop-up in SDA rnar—
ket on October 2, and at the Kurnaon
Literature Festival on October 12.
३

