COME AND SEE
THE SHREE RAJNEESH ASHRAM
There are a thousand and one rumours in this country about me, what I say, what
I am doing here. This seems to be really strange. These people never come to see

what is happening here — they go on believing in the rumours.
— BHAGWAN SHREE RAJNEESH

We invite you to visit the Ashram, to attend Bhagwan’s
daily discourse, to take part in the meditations and to
observe this unique community at work.
D ISCO U RS E

Every morning Bhagwan gives a discourse taking as his

which begins at 5.30 pm. Meditations last one hour.
For those wishing to go deeper into meditation a
ten-day intensive meditation camp is held at the ashram
from the 11th to the 20th of every month. During this
period there are 5 different meditations a day as well
as Bhagwan’s morning discourse and a taped discourse
in the afternoon.

text the sayings of great spiritual Masters — Krishna,
Jesus, Buddha, Moharnmed, Kabir. . . .

THE COMMUNITY AT WORK

Every other day, Bhagwan bases his discourse on
questions from disciples. The discourses last about
2 hours and are delivered one month in Hindi and the

following month in English, alternating through the
year.
If you decide to come, please arrive at the ashram

before 7.45 am. It is not possible to enter or leave
while the discourse is in progress. Before coming please
be freshly bathed and avoid using any perfumes, hair

For hundreds of sannyasins , work is both a way of
raising their level of consciousness and of playing. The
result is a great ﬂowering of creativity in many fields —
pottery, carpentry, weaving, shoe—making, book design
and production, screen printing, tailoring, soap production, gardening, cooking and baking. These and other

ordinary occupations become art forms in which
sannyasins can realise their full creative potential.

oil, after-shave or cosmetics . and please do not wear
woollen or ﬂuffy clothes or leather belts.
BEST TIMES TO VISIT

Entry to discourse is by contribution. Tours of the
ashram are available after discourse.
MEDITATION AND MEDITATION CAMPS

Passes are available for visitors wishing to participate
in the daily meditations such as Dynamic Meditation
which begins at 6.00 a.m. and Kundalini Meditation

Visitors are welcome to visit the ashram any time
after the discourse (around 10 am.) until 6 pm.
Between these times there is the possibility of a
guided tour of the ashram during which visitors can
observe meditations in progress and the community
at work. Visitors are asked to contact the reception
office upon arrival.
1

SHR EE RA JN EE S H ASH R A M
17 KOREGAON PARK, POONA 411001
TELEX: 0145-421 TAO

TELEPHONES: 28127, 20981, 20982
GRAM: TATHATA

