Rajneesh Foundation presents EFWELFTS‘I'T
HE ACTION of Twelfth Night happens in an

Antonio. who has saved him from the sea. As it is

imaginary country called Illyria. ruled by the

dangerous for Antonio to be seen in Illyria (because he

Duke Orsino, who is in love with the Countess Olivia
but she rejects him, claiming she must be alone in

once attacked Orsino’s ships) he gives Sebastian his
purse and retires to their lodgings.

mourning for her dead brother.

Viola, are washed ashore together. Viola is distressed

Sir Toby Belch persuades Sir Andrew Aguecheek to
challenge Orsino’s page Cesario (Viola) to a duel,
because they discover that Olivia is in love with him.
Both very scared, they prepare to fight , but Antonio

because she believes her twin brother, Sebastian, has
been drowned in the storm. As it is unsafe for a woman
to be alone she decides to disguise herself as a man and

arrives in time to protect Viola, whom he mistakes for
Sebastian. At that moment, Orsino's officers come to
arrest Antonio, so he asks Viola for his purse. She is

call herself Cesario, and soon obtains employment as a

astonished and says she has never seen him before and
he is taken away.

Shortly before the play begins there is a shipwreck off
the coast and the captain and one of his passengers,

page in the court of Duke Orsino.

Orsino sends his new page to woo Olivia on his behalf.
but unknown to him, Viola has herself fallen in love

with her new lord. To complicate matters, when Olivia
meets Orsino's young messenger Cesario she falls in love
with him च्चा not realizing that he is a woman!

Olivia also has another suitor. Sir Andrew Aguecheek,
a ridiculous young man who is staying with her cousin.
Sir Toby Belch. Sir Toby uses the wealthy Sir Andrew
as a drinking companion, together with the clown
Feste. Their rowdiness is strongly disapproved of by
Olivia’s steward. Malvolio, who pompously reprirnands
them. They decide to tease him and Maria. Olivia's
lady-in—waiting, helps them by writing a fake love letter
to Malvolio. apparently from Olivia, telling him to do
all sorts of absurd things to please her.
Meanwhile, Viola’s twin brother Sebastian arrives with

Olivia sends the clown Feste to bring Cesario (Viola) to
her. but finding Sebastian in the street, Feste takes him

to Olivia instead. Sebastian is met by Sir Andrew
Aguecheek. who, mistaking him for the cowardly
Cesario. challenges him to another duel and is
immediately knocked down. Olivia. believing Sebastian
to be Cesario, insists on marrying him. Astonished and
delighted, Sebastian willingly agrees.

In the final scene of the play, Duke Orsino is on his

way to visit Olivia with Cesario (Viola) and they meet
Antonio. who rebukes Cesario for pretending not to
know him. Then Olivia appears and talks to Viola as if
she is her husband ~ to the amazement of both Viola
and Orsino. Finally, everything becomes clear ,,
leaving Olivia and Sebastian happily together. Viola
about to become Orsino's queen, and Sir Toby Belch

already married to Maria.

THERE WILL BE A 15-MINUTE INTERVAL

