I

Lessons in Harmony
A rare jugalbandi brought noted artistes Alarmel Valli and Bombayjayashree
together for a unique performance
SUANSHU KH URANA
[1' IS Aknown fact thatany successful collaborative work has.more often than not.rested
upon digniﬁedresuaint. So when twoartistes
of the stature of Bharatanatyarn exponent
Alarmel Valli and Carnatic classical singer
Bombayjayashree came together fora performance titled "See the Music. Hear the
Dance". onewondered ifthe two would be
able to ﬁnd that delicate balance between
control andcreativity. gobeyond the obvious
and get their audience to applaud in reverenceand not compulsion.The two are titans
in their respective ﬁelds and have received
manyaccolades Whilethe formeris all about
visual rigour and precise performance. the
latter isknown to befaultless in techniqueas
well asimprovisation. Sowhen the two performed together in a concert presented by
Chennai-based organisation. Alaap. a stun—
. ning continuum of notes and movement
breathed life ontothe Stein Auditoriumstage.

The performancecomprised ﬁve padarns
and javalis (ancient erotic. love poems) in a
concert that was atribute tothe 100th centenaryof musician T Muktha. one ofthe more
signiﬁcant representatives ofthe Veena
Dhanammal bani and an artiste who specialised in rendering of padarns and javalis.
Muktha was also Valli's music guru while
Muktha‘s grandmother. legendary T
Balasaraswati was Valli‘s dance guru.
Jayashree did not enter this collaboration
from that bani. which isan interesting bit.
On a darkened stage, the lights came on
andValli. to life,whileJayashree rendered the
alaapana. The unabashed eroticism of the
padarns and javalis. full ofvisual invention,
came with immense innovation. Valli eased
into the roles of a nayika with various terri—
peraments — one who is crude and greedy
and is furious with her loverfor being duped
ofthepromises ofjewels.the other bereftand
anguished about the fact that her beloved
does not love her anymore, a confident one
who is not afraid to vocalise her sexual de-

sires.a mothertryingto cajole her sonand in
turn calling out to the divine. The challenge
of these pieces lay in interpretation and in
terms ofabhinaya, Valli nailed it. ﬁndingvarious permutations and combinationswith a
single idea to interpret the text and present
the stories.
The pace of the concert was slow and
measured, the bhaav intact and innovative,
but it tookValli andJayashree two pieces before theycould acquire theharmonythat sets
great artistes apart. Itcame withjaanro, a
hauntingly beautiful piece in raag Khamas.
which was the ﬁttest of the lot. something
that gaveus theillusion that Valli hadbecome
thenotes. "The music I feel is even more elo—
quentthan thetext." she said. The theme was
an oft repeated one. of a woman askingher
friend totell her loverthat her bodyand mind
yearns for him. The pacing was superb, the
sensuality in place and the subtext told with
much dexterity.
The concluding piece in raag Bhairavi.
showcased vatsalya and bhakti ms one after

Bombayjayashreesings fordancer AlarrnelValli. TSelvakumar

the other and was, by far. one of the more
evocative pieces of the evening. From a
mother calling out toher childto herself becoming achild calling out to the divine. the
transition was effortless both musically and
rnovernent—wise. As Jayashree's voice

reached a crescendo. Valli's clean lines
brought alive what herteacher Muktharruna
used to say. “See the music. hear the dance“.
“Itwas ajoytodiscoverjayasluee's adven—
turous spirit. and the fact that she was will—
ing to share another artiste's vision and en-

rich it." said Valli about ajourney thatbegan
a year ago. The two had already showcased
the performance in Chennai before bringing
it to Delhi.

