3५९1०32०
The play starts with a news reporter reporting about a mishap. At the news centre, the newsreaders
describe it as a culmination of a feud between two households through Shakespeare's famous chorus
speech.
In the ﬂashback, a brawl breaks out in streets of Verona between the servants of Capulet and
Montague. Benvolio , a Montague, tries to stop the ﬁghting, but involves himself when Tybolt, a
Capulet arrives there. After citizens outraged by the constant violence, the ruler of Verona stops the
conﬂicts between them. Romeo, the son of Montague, runs into his cousin Benvolio. Romeo conﬁdes
in him that he is in love with, a woman called Rosaline. Benvolio counsels him to forget this woman, but
Romeo remains despondent.
At a Capulet’s household, Paris, a kinsrnan of the Prince, proposes for Juliet’s hand to her father.
Capulet, though happy at the match, asks Paris to wait and invites him to the feast he traditionally
holds.Romeo and Benvolio discussing Rosaline, encounter the Capulet servant. Benvolio suggests
Romeo to attend the Capulet feast. Romeo agrees to go with Benvolio because of Rosaline.
Lady capulet talks to nurse about the possibility of Juliet's marriage with Paris. Juliet has not yet
considered her marriage, but agrees to look at Paris during the feast.
In the Capulets feast, Romeo and Benvolio also arrive with their witty friend Murcutio. Romeo notices
Juliet from a distance and instantly gets attracted to her; he forgets Rosaline completely. As Romeo
watches Juliet, Tybalt recognises him and prepares to attack but Capulet holds him back. Soon,
Romeo speaks to Juliet, and the two experience a profound attraction. But, when they ﬁnd each other
as an enemy, they become upset. Later, Romeo leaps over the orchard wall and meets Juliet at the
balcony.
Next morning, Romeo hurries to see his friend and confessor Friar Laurence, who, though shocked at
the sudden turn of Romeo‘s heart, agrees to marry the young lovers in secret. He sees in their love the
possibility of ending the age-old feud between Capulet and Montague. Romeo and Juliet get married.

03-914 and»:
Hirnanshu B Joshi was born and brought up in Pithoragarh,
Uttaranchal. He has been associated with the National School of
Drama in various capacities for more than 10 years and incessantly
practicing serious theatre, be it writing, designing or direction. He is one
of those young theatre artists who are searching different forms and
techniques for their own creation. Besides working with the eminent
theatre personalities of India, he himself has directed Chane,

Chattariyan, Hamjoli, Bombai Ke Footpath Par Ek Hazar Ratein, Aisa
Gur Bad Bhagi Paya and Khoj. He has conducted several theatre
workshops and written & directed plays like Ikkiswin Sadr' Ki Dadi and
Manga/ Griha ka Rahasya for children. He is also teaching light & set designing in theatre workshops
organized by reputed institutions and NGOs.
He was noticed for his light designs of the plays like Subarna/ata (Kshitij) directed by Kirti Jain, Yahudi
Ki Ladki (NSD) directed by Herna Singh, Cherry Ka Bagicha(NSD) and Hello to Myself (Tl E co NSD)
directred by Trlpurari Sharma, Golf, Pushkin’s Stories, Nepathya Raag and Mein Hoon Na (Kshitij)
directed by Bharti Sharma, Yayati and Last Enquiry Commission (Kshitij) directed by Bipin Kurnar,
Subhadra (Prayog) directed by MK Raina and Makar'ka Daana (TIE co NSD) directred by VK.
Hirnanshu has worked as a Coordinator for the Bharat Rang Mahotsava (1999-2002) and
Jashnebachpan (1999-2002) for four consecutive years, visited all over India as a Technical Expert
with the German group 'Theatre Triebwerk' during German Festival in India (2000-01) and served as
Auditoria In-charge in Poorva (Women Director's Theatre Festival), all organized by NSD. Further he
has visited all over India with the Russian troupe 'State Musical Theatre‘ during Days of Russian

Benvolio and Mercutio encounter Tybalt, who still enraged that Romeo attended Capulets feast.
challenges Romeo. Romeo appears as a relative of Tybalt and begs him to hold off. Disgusted with this
plea for peace, Mercutio goes to ﬁght Tybalt himself. The ﬁght begins. Romeo tries to stop them. Tybalt
stabs Mercutio and Mercutio dies. In rage, Romeo also kills Tybalt and ﬂees. Later, the Prince declares
him forever banished from Verona for his crime. Friar Lawrence arranges for Romeo to spend his
wedding night with Juliet before leaving to Mantua. In her room, Juliet awaits the arrival of her husband .
The Nurse enters and tells Juliet that Romeo has killed Tybalt. Distraught, Juliet suddenly finds herself
married to a man who has killed her kinsrnan. But she resettles herself, and realizes that her duty
belongs with her love to Romeo. Romeo sneaks into Juliet’s room that night and in the morning the
lovers bid farewell. Juliet learns that her father, affected by the recent events, insists her to marry Paris
in just three days. Juliet hurries to Friar Lawrence, who makes a plan to reunite both the lovers. Juliet
returns home, sees her wedding arrangements and drinks the potion given by friar Laurence. The next
morning, Nurse discovers her apparently dead. The Capulets grieve. According to Friar Lawrence's
plan Juliet will be alive soon, but this message never reached to Romeo. He learns only of Juliet's
death and decides to kill himself rather than live without her. He buys a vial of poison and goes Verona
to see Juliet. Outside the Capulet vault, Romeo ﬁghts with Paris and kills him. Later, looking at Juliet‘s
inanimate body he drinks the poison and dies by her side. Just then, Friar Lawrence enters and
realizes that Romeo has killed Paris and himself. At the same time, Juliet wakes up and asks about
Romeo. Friar Lawrence tells about his death and asks her to leave with him. But she refuses. Thus he
ﬂees alone. Juliet sees her beloved Romeo and realizes he has killed himself with poison. She kisses
his poisoned lips, and when that does not kill her, buries his dagger in her chest, falling dead upon his
body. The citizens arrives, followed closely by the Capulets, Montagues and Prince. Seeing their
children’s bodies, Capulet and Montague agree to end their long-standing feud and to raise gold
statues of their children side-by-side in a newly peaceful Verona.
In the end, Prince tells news reporter to show this story of death marked love to the audience .

Culture (2003) organized by the Central Sangeet Natak Akaderni. He has also been Coordinator of
Extension Programme of NSD for a year and designed logo (Rang-Vistaar) for its Silver Jubilee
celebrations. He has visited Japan (Feb. 2004) to participate in the Theatre of provocation: South
Asian Drama as a designer with the play Island ofB/ood directed by Abhilash Pillai . He has served as a
technical coordinator for India show of ‘Memories of a Legend’ based on Babarnama, which was
collectively directed by directors from Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka and produced
by Japan Foundation, Tokyo.
He was associated with the Natrang, a prestigious Hindi theatre journal for more than two years. He
received a Junior Research Fellowship on ‘Colour Psychology in Indian Theatre' from Department of
Culture, Govt. of India. Recently, his translation/ adaptation of Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children.
directed by Abhilash Pillai, received rave reviews.

