$5; 1u l० 1 '3 \N० lo
It was my pleasure when Mushtaqji offered me to direct a play with the second-year-acting course
students of SRC during the performances of 'Midnight‘s Children' in National School of Drama. I
accepted it as a privilege. Acknowledging a huge band of actors in the course, I had three plays in my
mind-Enemy of the People by Ibsen, Hanoos by Bhisrna Sahani and Lights Out by Manjula
Padmanabhan. But, when I started working with the students, I thought I should do a Shakespearean
play with them. Thus, Romeo & Juliet came in my way. When I announced it, students applauded the
idea for various reasons -- may be for it is a archetype and popular play by Shakespeare, it is closely
associated with the themes of Hindi films and moreover, it is a play of love and youthfulness.
I tried to contemprise the text and situations of the play but in the same time I tried to keep the play
aesthetically intact for proscenium, as it was already scheduled I started with the individual irnageries
for each character, and later placed them in a cumulative imagery. It was my prime urge to make aware
the students towards action—oriented acting, which often generated by their self or comes out
intuitively from the situation . I wanted to take them out from talkative and hand-gestured acting styles.
If they maintain the growth within themselves by at least 20 per cent, I would feel great honour.
At the onset, I thank to my dear friend and mentor Abhilash Pillai for making me aware about Indian as
well as contemporary world theatre. I love to thank Gaurav Shanna, Ashok Shanna, Lokesh Jain,
Bhupesh Joshi, Deep Kumar and Madhusudan Sahoo for their good support to me. I also thank to
Sandy for helping .rne in music composition and Naresh Kumar for his contribution in choreography.
I specially thank to Ms Panna Bharatramji, Mustaq Kakji, all the SRC staff members and the lovely
llnd-year students who truly made this play possible for the stage.
Since this is my first production in one of the premier theatre institutions of India, I want to show a mark
of respect through it to my parents, family members and all my t'eaohers, who helped me in nurturing
my theatre career in several occasions. I also acknowledge the names of National School of Drama
and Natarang Pratishthan, who came in my way long ago and foster my artistic calibre.

Stu: ३२८५५ Quin (301 qDMJMndug Club

either absorbed by the SRC Repertory orjoin the National School of Drama or work for the Media .
SRC Children Theatre Workshop

The Shri Ram Centre grew out of what was originally known as Indian National Theatre, heralding a
revival in the Indian Cultural scene. It is one of the leading Cultural Organisations in India and has all
along been striving hard to nurture talents in the ﬁeld of Performing Arts. The SRC organises the
following programmes to achieve its aim :—

To inculcate interest in the rich cultural heritage of India, particularly amongst younger generations,
SRC has been organizing production oriented Children Theatre Workshop every year and this
endeavour is widely acclaimed by all walks of life, including media.

SRC Theatre Repertory Company

Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lectures

In 1980, the Centre started a full time Professional Theatre Repertory Company with the aim to
produce meaningful plays by well known play-wrights and directors to create an environment of
theatre amongst its lovers. Besides performing regularly in Delhi, SRC Repertory visits to other parts
of the country as well. Repertory Company has the honour of working with eminent Directors like
Rajendra Nath, Ranjit Kapoor, B.V. Karanth, Habib Tanvir, B.M.Shah, Piyush Mishra, Suresh Shanna,

The Annual Shri Ram Memorial Lecture Series was started in 1986 to give due recognition to
important theatre Iurninaries and their profound contribution in enriching the Indian Theatre
Movement. This Lecture Series has featured such theatre luminaries as Utpal Dutt, Habib Tanvir,
Vijaya Mehta, Shiv Ram Karanth, Badal Sircar, Vijay Tendulkar etc. The Centre has also published
these lectures as an authentic documentation of Indian Theatre Movement.

Sanjay Upadhyay, Roysten Abel, Bapi Bose, Avtar Sahni, Chittaranjan Tripathi, Urrnil Kumar
Thapliyal & Mushtaq Kak.

SRC Acting Course
To encourage young talents in the ﬁeld, Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts conducts a two year part
time training programme. The ﬁrst year is devoted to in-depth study of all aspects of theatre and in the
2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on Indian-Classical,
Experimental, Western and Modern-Indian Dramas. This helps to prepare a professional team of
actors to sustain Hindi-theatre's future. Students who complete the course with exellent grades are

