१ . 'JAI BANGLA routvEn 2
A deputation ofBengal Association, Delhi, led by its President, Dr. Triguna Sen
met the Prime Minister, Shrimati Indira Gandhi, at 9 a.m. on 31st March 1971 to apprise

her of the strong feelings of the Bengalee community in Delhi over the genocidal
campaign ofterror unleashedby the Pakistan military authorities on the unarmedpeople

ofBangla Desh who have demanded democratic self-rule for 'themselves.‘ ’ The following
memorandum was submitted to the Prime Minister, who assured the delegatiion of ट्वे
' ' '… '
’ ’
" '
'
’
a sympathetic consideration '.‘ .

' Madame Prime Minister,

It is with - deep anxiety and anguish that we address this letter. to you. As
Bengalees resident in this city we feel all the more indignant at the bestiality per-

petrated by the military regime of West Pakistan on the defenceless men;;:‘ women
and children of Bangla Desh and proud of the magniﬁcent heroism of a simple
but great people ﬁghting desperately for freedom, democracy and development of
' national language and culture.

While sympathy for Bangla Desh is universal in this country we cannot, however, help feeling that we are not standing by our brothers and sisters of Bangla
yet clear and
Desh the way we should and the policy of our Government is not

ﬁrm

enough to meet the- demands of the hour. दृ, F‘or ,ithe sitUation is, indeed, critical

Nothing should,
and moral support alone, though genuine, is ‘by no means enough.
rial as well
help—mate
therefore, stand in the way of our giving them the massive
hour.
desperate
as moral—that they so urgently need at this

We. therefore. strongly urge upon you :
1.

2.

To demand of the West Pakistan
of troops from Bangla Desh,

Government

the

immediate withdrawal

To bring to the notice of the U .N.O. the wanton policy of genocide, depredation and scorched earth pursued by the West Pakistan Army in
Bangla Desh.

3.

To inform Saudi Arabia, Iran and other Muslim

countries of the fact that

more Muslims have already been killed in Bangla Desh than during the
entire period of Arab-Israeli war.

4.

To request the Govt. of Burma not to supply aviation fuel to West Paki'
stani Air Force.

