About Ourselves
O.K. Ghosh, General Secretary, Bengal Association

The Bengal Association, New Delhi, was founded in September 1958 by the
then Chief Minister of West Bengal, Dr. B. C. Roy, with the object that it would
become the coordinating organisation for educational and cultural activities of the Bengali

community in the metropolis.

The then Chief Justice of India, Shri S. R. Das, was

elected the ﬁrst President of the Association.

For some years, 1958-65, the Bengal Asso-

ciation conﬁned itself to certain cultural activities. As it happened, those Bengalis who,
through good fortune, were situated in the higher echelons of society predominated in
the counsels and activities of the Bengal Association. This caused doubts and hesitations
among other Bengalis.

The Bengal Association was supported by grants, of about a few

thousands of rupees each year, by the West Bengal Government.
From 1965-66 a wind of change blew into our halls. The West Bengal Government gave a sum of Rs. 1 lakh for our activities. These were then organised under the
following four heads :
(i) Grants to Bengali-medium schools.
(ii) Running of a music school known as “Banga Bharati Institute of Music”.
(iii) Cultural activities like drama competitions ; and functions like the Saradotsav, Nava Varsha celebrations ; and extension lectures.
(iv) Welfare work.

There are, at present, eight Higher Secondary Schools where Bengali is the medium
of instruction.

In four of these, the

medium of instruction is only Bengali, whereas

in the remaining four there are Hindi and Bengali sections. These schools are supposed
But
to the ﬁnanced to the extent of 95 % grants from the Delhi Education Directorate.
charges
telephone
stationery,
charges,
electricity
and
the norms for contingencies like water
etc. have been ﬁxed on the basis of rates prevalent in the nineteen-thirties. Also, there
are

stringent

standards

about

the

bearing of teachers’ salaries.

Thus, two

sections

cannot be opened unless there are more than 60 students ; if there are less than 30
students, a class cannot be opened !

In view of all this, Governmental ﬁnancial assistance

really comes to only about 75-80%. The rest has to be met from elsewhere. Contrary to some impressions, the Bengali community of New Delhi is not a prosperous
one. It consists mainly of ofﬁce workers, mostly in clerical grades. Unlike most other
this poor
communities, the number of rich Bengali business men are very few and hence

community has to fall back on the meagre resources of hard-pressed ofﬁce-goers.

