A music school by the name of Banga Bharati was started early in 1966. A 3year certiﬁcate course was drawn up on the lines of the junior diploma course of Rabindra
Bharati, Calcutta. The idea was that it would impart training not only in Rabindra
Sangeet, but also in folk songs, kirtan, other Bengali songs, North Indian classical vocal
music etc. The music school has no building of its own, and classes have been held in
School premises, clubs etc., according to need and availability of accommodation.
It is not necessary to go into details about cultural work

and welfare work

which was done in the past.
The bounty of the West Bengal Government continued after 1965-66, and continues

to the present day.

No matter what the political complexion of Writers’ Building has been,

the Bengal Association has been getting grants to the tune of Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 1 lakh
per aI)I] uII] .

The uneasiness about the Bengal Association being unduly inﬂuenced by less poor

Bengalis (the community is a poor one, and affluence is very limited I), led to much heartsearching and conf'abulations among Bengali clubs, institutions and associations. The
Bengali community is such that everywhere it is organised in numerous small groups
round about various clubs or associations. The Bengali bhadralok is highly individualistic
by nature, and does not take easily to monolithic organisations. However, the

need for

a common platform, a common forum of coordination, has been felt, and from 1967
onwards vigorous efforts have been made in this direction, ﬁrst under the leadership of
Shri A. K. Roy, the President, and then Dr. Triguna Sen, the succeeding President.
The Bengali bhaa’ralok, however, loves arguments and discussions, and is not easily per-

suaded to agree with fellow-Bengalis.

However, this is possible now and then, as has

been proved in Bengali history and politics. In our much smaller ﬁeld. also, we Bengalis
of Delhi have succeeded in creating a flexible and workable coordinating body for our

cultural and educational activities.

The principle adopted is that the Bengal Association

should be a confederation of clubs and that its Executive Committee should consist of
both club and institutional members, as well as members directly elected. The memorandum of Association and Rules were accordingly amended on 6th September 1970. The
Executive Committee now consists of a President, to be elected by the General Body,
and thirtythree other members, eight froin edcational institutions, fourteen from clubs
and eleven from Founder, Ordinary and Life members. To the General Body, associations,

clubs etc. send representatives at the rate of one for every twentyﬁve of its effective mem:
bers. Orgariisatlonally also, the Bengal Association has been revitalised by having a
larger number of Jomt Secretaries, each in charge of a function. Now there are ﬁve as
against two previously, one for Clubs and Cultural Affairs, one for the Music School
one for Magazine and, Publicity, one for Social Welfare and Women’s
Activities, and one

हंदृइ०दृ3ड्ड ्डद्ध'ट्वेंदृमृड्डोंहँट्वेंड्डदृदृ .222:5.6.32.2?starts.as WW W 13.111621:

and comaraderie to play their
.
g , . s an ind1v1duals, in a Spirit of service
.
. . . ]
आँ
part in the multi-commumty mosaic of cultural and educational act1v1ties in our metropolis.

