Our tasks and problems to-day may be classiﬁed broadly under the following है, eads .
(i) Music School
(ii) Communication within the community, and with other communities.

(iii) Activities relating to cultural integration.
(iv) Social Welfare.

(v) Schools.

The Music School has not, it must be admitted, fulﬁlled its original expectations.
Idealists, with all their weaknesses, have been in charge, and more attention was given

to the purity of tone and melody than the working towards the grant of a publicly recognized diploma, or the making of a prospective bride still more attractive to a future
groom! As a result, the classes were small and fall-outs many. From this year the
superior direction of the Music School has changed and the necessity for democratisation
has been accepted under the energetic gidance of our Music Sub-Committee Chairman, Mrs.

Dipali Nag. It has been decided that all efforts should be made to introduce Sangeet Prabhakar courses and get afﬁliated to the Prayag Sammilan.

Coaching classes should also be

held for the Delhi Higher Secondary Music students. It has also been agreed that a
ﬂexible attitude should be taken towards the curricula, and lighter items like the “ghazal”
introduced.
Financially, the Music School has been costing us (net) about Rs. l9,000—20,000 a

year. The bill has been footed by the tax-prayers of West Bengal. There is no reason
why this should be the case, and a decision was taken by the West Bengal Government
some time back that we should stand on our own legs in this matter. This is the goal
to which we must work, and not hope for ever to hold on to the anchal of Mother
West Bengal.

Our communication policy has also varied.

During the days of elite-control com-

munication was largely among themselves, in reﬁned and sophisticated discussions after

a talk, or a musical soiree. With gradual democratisation, the need of written communication was felt. The bilingual English-Bengali “Dillir Bangali” was started towards the
Its contents were mixed—news about our activities, about Bengali clubs and associations in the metropolis, about West Bengal, the
literary efforts of local hopefuls etc. The policy changed early in 1970, largely as the
result of the advice of our Vice-President, Mrs. Aruna Asaf Ali. It was decided to have

end of 1967.

It came out twice a year.

consisting of
a monthly house-magazine in Bengali, retaining the name “Dillir Bangali”,
traditions of
and
culture
a few sheets; and a serious journal in English presenting the

West Bengal to the world.

The former will retail local gossip and news, while the latter

I think, have
will speak to the world’s intellectuals. This second magazine might also,
from about
late,
a Hindi section. As the Bengalis were North-Indianized in culture rather
always
have
Indians
the 5th century A.D., and that too probably not well enough, other
from
Muslim
became
it
of
looked askance at them. Bengal favoured Buddhism, half

