Anglo-Saxon literary culture earlier than
Buddhist, rather than turn Hindu, and took to
of the British). As carriers of Western
North Indians (due to Calcutta being the capital
etc.
secular culture, as teachers, doctors, lawyers

they came to be at the same time

superiority.
respected, and disliked for their assumptions of cultural

The newer generation

all
this pose, as Western ideas have penetrated
of Bengalis are in no position to assume

the rniddlernanship in North India is
over India either in the liberal or Marxist guise and
dislike and suspicion in the minds
no longer a near-Bengali monopoly. Nevertheless, the
nceptions by presenting a balanced
of non-Bengalis remain, and it is time to remove misco
We hope to start with an annual
picture of Bengal’s cultural services to the rest of India.

i savant of Delhi. We
at ﬁrst, under the distinguished editorship of a noted Bengal
n West Bengal Governbenig
the
from
come
hope that the ﬁnancial support for this will
ment until we learn to walk ourselves.
, and the
It is to be regretted that the older version of “Dillir Bangali” depended
of letters,
man
and
t
journalis
vetran
the
present one still depends, for its coming out, on
share his
to
forward
come
will
men
younger
Shri Sachindra Lal Ghosh. It is hoped that
death.
natural
a
die
to
not
is
venture
this
if
burden in the days to come,
This year a great leap-forward is the Cultural Festival, which will present the best of

Bengali culture to the metropolis, and in this way help integration and fellow-feeling
among different communities. A great deal of organisational eﬂ‘ort has been put into
this, and it is hoped that this will be an annual feature.
The ﬁeld of “social welfare” covers many ﬁelds—helping the needy, the distressed,
the deprived. Unfortunately, India is so poor that few bother about such people in
their heart of hearts, and so our monetary resources for them has been meagre.
this ﬁeld it is for the local Bengali community to raise resources and be of service.

In

The ﬁnancial problems of Bengali-medium schools have already been mentioned.
In addition, there are feeder schools, and the Banga Bhasha Prasar Samiti of Daryaganj,
run by a devoted band of ladies led by Mrs. Chitra Banerjee.

(The Samiti is teaching

Bengali to non-Bengalis, and there is unbounded enthusiasm on both sides).
The deﬁcit in maintenance for all the Bengali schools runs to about Rs. 2 lakhs
per annum. Most of the schools are dipping into their reserve funds, and unless some-

thing 18 done, the results may well be disastrous.
Funds by way of coaching facilities, capital equipment etc. are also necessary over
and above the normal stringent GOVernment standards, if our boys and girls are 110;“, be

reduced to peonage and penury.

At least Rs. 2 lakhs a year is necessary for this

ur ose

In all, therefore, we need about Rs. 4 lakhs a year, Rs. 2 lakhs for maintenance and) Rs.

2 lakhs for development. This is equivalent to the interest on a Trust fund of about Rs.
70 lakhs. Only when a Trust has been formed, and this amount of money collected will
the Bengali-medium schools of Delhi be free from anxiety. A Trust was formed, nd
registered last year, but funds are still to come.

The cause of education is such thatano

