Calcutta’s Social Problem
Praof. Nirmal Kumar Bose

Today, Calcutta is beset with many problems.
tatters ;

Our municipal organization is‘ in

there is no hour of the day when any part of the city is wholly clean.

water supply is always inadequate.

The

The supply of milk, which has been taken over by

the Government, is intermittent ; and so also is public transportatin which forms another

wing of our socialist administration. One who leaves for ofﬁce, or is out on an errand,
is not always sure as to how he shall return home. There is every chance in some parts
of the town that he might be caught between two political parties ﬁghting violently for
dominance. It is, however, not my intention to discuss these problems of our everyday
life in the city. My purpose is to draw the readers’ attention to one particular question
relating to our social life which, I believe, deserves more serious attention than has been
given to it so far.
The city

of Calcutta was practically founded in 1698 AD. when the East India

Company purchased the villages of Sutanuti, Govindapur'and Kalikata from the Savarna

Chowdhuri zamindars for the paltry sum of Rs. 1,300.
population

increased,

the

neighbouring

villages

As the city began to grow, as

or hamlets were sucked up within its

expanding boundary. But even when this happened, each portion of the town retained
the memory of its separate identity, as far as it was possible to do so. Later on, the
growth of tramway lines, and the extensive use of motor vehicles, knit together all parts
of the city into one. Yet, when someone from, say, Bhowanipore were to go to Pataldanga or Shyambazar, it was customary for them to say that they were ‘going to Calcutta’,

as if Bhownipore lay outside the limits of the

metropolis.

I am, at the moment, not

referring to these separate identities ofeitherBhowanipore or Ballygunge, or of Shyambazar

and Cossipore.

But even within these distinct wards, there are more restricted localities,

each of which had an individuality of its own.

The names of many of our streets and lanes are fast being altered. Chowringhee
and Harrison Road now bear the names of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and of Mahatma
Gandhi.

Bowbazar Street, Chitpore Road, Circular Road and Central Avenue have all

shed their names either in whole or in parts. After Independence, it was not unnatural
that our streets should be adorned by the names of our national leaders. And now that
our interests have crossed national limits, it is also not unnatural that some of our streets
should bear the names of Lenin or Ho Chi-Minh, or that of Shakespeare. When we are
out to make new history, how can we keep ourselves tied to the past ? There seems to
be nothing logically wrong about it.

