who have made Calcutta
But the pity is that the new generation of Bengalis, or those
the locality where they
of
history
the
know
even
not
do
their home in recent times,
from many polnts
interest
great
of
be
can
history
such
Yet
have chosen to settle down.

ara, Ahintola,
of view. Names like Hogolkuria, Simulia, Patuatola, Darzipara, Kansarip
Wthh each
ion
Beniapukur or Jugipara are now being rapidly forgotten ; and the associat
ties or of traders
locality had in former times with the settlement of particular communi
’s present-day inhabiand craftsmen remains very often completely unknown to Calcutta

tants.

But there is no doubt that such history is often not only interesting, but also

which
instructive, as they bear the stamp of the social and economic changes through
ex/ery part of Calcutta has passed.

The economic changes which overtook Bengal ofter the famine of 1770 AD. was more
profound than that undergone by any other part of India like Orissa or Assam, or- even
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, where the commercial centres of Bombay or Madras grew

up under British rule.
perished.

During that fateful famine, nearly a third of Bengal’s population

In the meanwhile, the British had established the centre of their commermal

empire in North India with Calcutta as its focal point.

The upper-class Bengali inhabitants

of the districts of Hooghly, 24 Parganas, Burdwan and Nadia, largely ﬂocked to the city,
and tried to make their living by service in administrative or commercial establishments

as clerks or accountants, agents or bankers. Some among them did try to enter into banking or shipping, or established themselves, along with a few English partners, in industries
connected with silk, indigo or jute and cotton textiles. When the English found that
the competition of these people could, in future, become a serious threat to their private
enterprise, they took various steps in order to curb the activities of their nativp

competitors.
In the meanwhile, much of the land had gone out of cultivation as a result of the
famine, and neglect of irrigation ; the ruling families of old had fallen into disarray, and

agriculture had to be once more revived. This was achieved through the Permanent Settlé—
ment of 1793, which encouraged the new Bengali rich to invest their capital in land rathupir
than in trade and industries.
J

‘Datta has tried to calculate how zamindari come to prove a proﬁtable concern
shorly after 1793. Quoting from a report, he'shows how, out of 530 lac acres Of cultivable land paying revenue, only 115 lac acres were actually under cultivation. ’ While
the dues payable to the Government remained ﬁxed, agriculture could be extended without further taxation and thus made to yield additional proﬁts. Even after making due
allowances for fall' in the Value of the ‘rupee, Datta has calculated that the relative ‘inco‘tﬁe

'of the zarnind’ars of Bengal rose" form‘ 6 ' in 1793 to 77 in 1872 and to 80 in 1931'. ' '३ 1h
other words, in the ﬁrst eighty ’years after Permanent Settlement, the net gain inereased
to 12.8 times, while 'the next sixty years-Saw a total increase of 4 हिं only ; the saturatidh

point had been nearly reached.’*

'

'

w

.. *Bose, Nirmal Kumar : ‘Social ‘and Cultural Life of Calcutta’ G
of India, December 1958, p. 4.).

_ ’

-

z.

. , I

eoglaphzcal 36”er

