:One .of the results of .the economic transformation to which Bengal was subjected
was that .t-he villages were langely drained of their native leadership, and a new class of

landlords, residing chiefly in the city, came into being.

They were no longer the leaders

of rural society, but only1rich11people who had invested in land, and whose roots had to

»be:established on the Metropolis.

But in this new economic structure, the position of the

«newly 11611 111 Calcutta was generally of a subordinate nature.
Banking and insurance,
“trade a11dI1'i111dustry, 1 transport and the like, even the Chambers of Commerce were all do-

minated by the British.

If any Indian found a place in them, it was almost alWays by .

the sufference of the English masters. Money gained from zemindari was invested in buy‘in‘g further ' zernindaris, or was deposited in government securities, or even lay idle in

British I‘banks. " ‘

i

"1३116'11611 111 Calcutta thus lived under the shadow of the British.

Yet they had to

' live in their own neighbourhood, among people of their own kind, and naturally tried to
build up new social ties with their neighbours.
:BDth 1110 rich and the poor had come from villages, where they had been accustomed

to 011161/1८111113 of social interdependence.

When the:establishment of new, urban ties was

-:thWar1ted,t ,When banks and clubs were largely in the hands of the rulers, what the new
rich of Calcutta did Was not surprising, but even natural.

They tried to re-create in the

citythe kind of life to which they Were accustomed in their village homes. The zemindar:s
iho'use in Calcuttabecame thefocal point of the social life of the neighbourhbod. lie
celebrated the Durga peoj'a'h or’Dol, Annapurna or Lakshmi poojah, as he used to do 1h

his village, and he threw the doors open to all those , who lived 1-1 the neighbourhood.
In course of time, a feeling of co-operation and brOtherhood grew upin the locality,

in Which all the inhabitants began to sharein a common pride and loyalty to the neighb0urhood. Not that there was no discrepancy in wealth in those days; but in spite १1
5.1011 difference a common tie developed between

neighbours, some of whom served as

help and guide to whosoeVer stood in need cf it in the community.

One shou1d ndt,

howeVer, imagine that there was no feeling of hostility between one great house aInd
another It is natural that Jealous1es also grew up; Yet, even these jealousies bound together
families more closely if they had lived side by Side for several generations.

It was thus that the social life of Calcutta beCame morestrongly cemented through
both love and hate, even when the people were divided into rich' and poor It Waspa
replica of rural society which was thus built. up in every separate: जि७11ऐप1आ11111 tlie

metropolis. They thus took the place of the urban institutions which should have naturaJlby
grown up after the economic transformation had taken place. The latter, as We have
already said, lay in the hands of the foreign rulers.
s. Bil't
Ihis state of aﬁairs lasted for a long time, over at least ﬁve or six generation

the Second, followed
311166 the end of the First World War, and more particularly after
to another series
by the advent of Independence, the city of Calcutta has been- subjected
s of each eif
inhabitant
the
observes
of profound economic and social changes. As one

