native houses
the old residential localities of Calcutta, one notices that many of the old,
parts of the
different
over
widely
scattered
have changed hands, and their residents lie
a market.
have
longer
no
they
as
,
destroyed
crafts
old
city. New roads have been built,
across strange faces ;
So that, in every locality, in all the old streets and lanes, one comes
of ancestral homes
ts
inhabitan
The
day.
to
and even these go on changing from day
faces are changing
whose
crowds
of
midst
the
in
minority
discover that they form a
patriotism which
the
in
longer
any
share
to
seem
not
do
latter
from day to day. And the

they themselves still retain about their own locality.
When population itselfthus becomes re-shufﬂed every now and then, are there no new
or
institutions to take the place of the old ‘2 What has happened to the commercial
discovers
one
scene,
the
observes
one
As
‘3
British
the
by
ts
left
industrial establishmen
that today Calcutta has become largely an all-India city, in which the economic centre of

gravity lies in the control of either the Government, or of enterprising men who have
come into the metropolis from

Rajasthan and Gujarat, Punjab and Sindh.

But what is

surprising is that, although new economic bonds haved developed between them and the
Bengali residents, yet social ties have failed to grow to an appreciable extent. One can
understand this in relation to the British rulers and Bengali subjects who made up the
population of Calcutta in the past ; for the rulers tried intentionally to keep themselves
isolated from the people of the land. But the Rajasthani or Punjabi, the Gujarati or
Tamilian who live in Calcutta today also seem to live in island-worlds of their own.
Their schools and clubs, even their social contacts are limited in scope, in the sense that
they have hardly a place where the Bengali can frequently meet them as friends and equals.

Of course there are exceptions. Members of the Calcutta Club, or the dwellers of
bustees have been drawn close to one another, in spite of differences in language or 0ccupation, by common bonds, either of excessive riches or of excessive poverty. But the
vast mass of those who are neither very rich nor very poor, still live socially segregated
from one another. There are two rather temporary, or emphemeral, occasions when,

in spite of their normal isolation, they come close to one another for a while. One such
occasion is furnished by the numerous Sarvajanin poojahs organized in nearly every part
of the city by its Bengali, Hindu residents. The other way of integration lies through
political association. The life of Calcutta, and perhaps also of Bengal, has become so
deeply charged by politics that institutions like schools, dramatic and even sports clubs,
and libraries, which have other functions of a constructive nature to perform, are freqently used as platforms or instruments of propaganda for political party organization.
Even trade unions _ have taken on, exclusively, a political colour. They compete with
one another in militancy, and the functions of education and constructive organization

are often neglected in consequence.
The point is that, while the social cohesion of various localities has been weakened
by rapid changes in population, and men have been thrown into a state of disorientation,
anxiety and isolation in the midst of a crowd, the responsibility of biulding up new institutions in place of the old seems to have been very inadequately accepted. Not that nothing

is happening, but the pace at which new associations grow is so slow that it cannot take

