Deshabandhu Chittaranjan Das
by Dr, R.K. Dasgupta

In her presidential address at the f'ortieth session of the Indian National Congress held at Cawnpore in December 1925 Sarojini Naidu called Deshabandhu Chittaranjan Das ‘kingliest of dreamers, whose whole being is a Vaishnavite rhapsody of
incomparable passion for the liberty of his Motherland, who died with his hand

outstretched in a royal gesture of reconciliation towards a powerful antagonist against
whom he had fought so often with such reckless and victorious chivalry.’ A tribute
such as this may not be understood today: it may even be slighted as . sheer rhetoric. What has Vaishnavism to do with politics ? this generation may ask : and how
is a politician really sccessful when he ends up with a surrender to his political
: adversary ? Yet these words of Sarojini bring out the very essence of Chittaranjan’s
political

life which was integral with his deeper spiritual and moral being.

One

cannot measure it in terms of the calculus of political loss and gain such as we
use today in judging a leader or his party. To Chittaranjan the political life of
a nation or of the world as a whole was only an aspect of the life of the Spirit

ever moving towards its fulﬁlment.
of real democracy in

It is signiﬁcant that, speaking of the foundation

his presidential address at the thirty-seventh session

of the

Congress held at Gaya in 1922, he quoted the saying of Hegel that ‘human institutions belong to the region, not of inert externality, but of mind and purpose, and

are therefore dynamic and self-developing’.
This view of life as a totality comprehending its highest spiritual aspirations is

powerfully expressed in the address he gave in Bengali as president of the Bengal
Provincial Conference held in Calcutta in April 1917 : ‘To look upon life not as a

comprehensive whole, but as divided among many compartments, was no part of
our national culture and civilization. We have borrowed this method from Europe,
and we have not understood what we have borrowed; and hence the failure of so

much of our endeavour. . . .Will anyone tell me that this portion of our national
life is the subject of Politics, that another portion is the subject of Economics,
while a third portion is the subject of Sociology? Must we divide life bit by

bit like this?

Must we raise insuperable barriers between these imaginary compart-

ments of ours?’

And in his last public address which he delivered in Bengali as

president of the Bengal Provincial Conference held at F'aridpur on 2 May 1925 he
spoke of political liberation in terms of the ancient Indian ideal of salvation
‘Again and again has India asked—which way lies Salvation? In the past it was
the obstinate questioning of the individual soul weary of shadows and seeking for

