R eality.

tortured cry of the Soul of India:

In the living present it is the

Wthh

way lies Salvation ?” Let me put this question to you again so that we may‘ogtaiii
a clear vision as to what it is that we must accomphsh. As With the 1nd1v1 ua,
so with the Nation, the question is to ﬁnd out the meaning of deliverance from
bondage and, let me add, sin.
It is a sin of those who forge the fetters ofbondage ;
it is also a sin of those who allow the fetters to be forged.’

Towards the

end of his life Chiitaranjan came over to the side of Mahatma

Gandhi without reservation because of his afﬁnity with him in respect of this hessentially spiritual and moral view of a subject nation’s political activity. Even before
the historic rapprochement between the two at the Belgaum Congress of 1924 and
what is more, even at the Gaya Congress of 1922 where they diverged so sharply

on the question of Council entry Chittaranjan revered Mahatma Gandhi as .‘one of
the greatest men that the world has ever seen. The world hath need of him, and
if he is mocked at and jeered at by “the people of importance”, “the people with

a stake in the country”—Scribes

and Pharisees of the days of Christ—he will be grate-

f'ully remembered now and always, by a nation which he led from victory to victory.’

When at this distance of time we try
the political events in India between
the Belgaum Congress we are inclined
Changers and the No-Changers and

to draw up a neat historical framework for
the Government of India Act of 1919 and
to stress the sharp polarity between the Protheir principal spokesmen, Chittaranjan and

Mahatma Gandhi.

This polarity is a fact of history and that it was resolved at
the Belgaum Congress is also a fact of history. Still it is important to realize that
the difference between them related to questions of strategy and not of purpose and
the difference did not divide the Congress because of a basic agreement on the most
vital issues before the country. At Belgaum two great minds came close to each
other because of their commitment to a common ideal. Moving the resolution on
what is now know as the ‘Compromise and Spinning Franchise’ Chittaranjan said. .
‘I have as much a right to the Congress as many of my friends on the other
side.

It reminds me of a beautiful poem . . . . “He drew a circle and cut me out,/He called
me a rebel and heretic./But love and I joined to win,/We drew a circle
and I took

him in./Mahatma Gandhi co-operated with love and has drawn a
circle by which
he has taken all of us inside the Congress.’

Actually Chittaranjan would have been

within that circle if it were drawn with a larger circumference at
the

Congress

of 1922. A close analysis of the major resolutions ofthe Congress
from the Amritsar
session of 1919 to the compromise of 1924 would show
that Mahatma Gandhi

and Deshbandhu Chittaranjan represented during this period
of crisis the inevitable
ambivalence of the Indian political mind regarding the course of political
action
demanded by the hour. If at one time it would appear
that Mahatma Gandhi was
speaking like Chittaranjan at another it would appear
that Chittaranjan was speaking
like Mahatma Gandhi. At the Amritsar session
Chittaranjan urged complete rejection of the Mont-ford Reforms while Mahatma Gandhi
made a plea for working

them with trust in Britain’s good will.

'

