The resolution which Chittaranian moved at this session called the Reforms Act
‘inadequate, unsatisfactory and disappointing’. Mahatma Gandhi moved an amend-

ment omitting the word ‘disappointing’ and adding a
of working the Reforms.

further paragraph in support

And this was barely eight months after his call for a

Satyagraha as a reply to the Rowlatt Act of 18 March 1919 and the Amritsar Massacre of 13 April the same year and about a month after his pronouncement on
non-coperation in Delhi in his address at the Khilafat Conference held there on 24

November. It seems now important to remember that the ﬁnal resolution as drafted
by Jairamdas Doulatram was rushed through in a manner which did not give a
chance

to

Chittaranjan

to

spell

out his objection to the gesture of co-operation.

Mahatma Gandhi admits it in his Autobiography:‘.. ..Jeramdas’s amendment seemed

to me likely to be acceptable to both the parties.

Lokmanya Tilak to whom it

was next shown, said, “If C. R. Das approves, I will have no objection.” . . . .Mala—

Viyaji was ﬁlled with hope.

He snatched away the slip of paper containing the

amendment, and before Deshbandhu had even pronounced a deﬁnite “yes”, shouted out,

“Brother delegates, you will be glad to know that a compromise has been reached.”
At the special session of the Congress held in Calcutta in September 1920
Gandhi

moved

the

resolution

on

non-violent non-co-operation

and

Chittaranjan

Opposed it. The only provocation from the British side in the intervening period
was the majority report of the Hunter Committee on the Amritsar Massacre. At
the thirty-ﬁfth session of the Congress held at Nagpur in December 1920 Chittaranjan
accepted Mahatma Gandhi’s programme of non-cooperation, which only meant that
he was reverting to his stand at the Amritsar Congress of the previous year. In
the address he was expected to deliver at the next session of the Congress as its

president he reafﬁrmed his opposition to the Reforms Act which, he said, could not
be a ‘basis for cooperation with the Government. 1- will not purchase peace with
dishonour.’

When as president of the Gaya Congress he urged Council-entry he did so
as

an

extension

of the

non-cooperation

programme.

Mahatma

Gandhi’s

proposal

for non-cooperation at the special session of the Congress in September 1920 was
Amritsar
a reversal of his policy of working the Reforms formulated by him at the
Congress.

Chittaranjan’s

plea

for Council-entry at

the

Gaya

sentially a plea for the annulment of the Reforms in the most
under the circumstance.

That circumstance he explains in his

Congress

was

es-

effective way possible
address:

‘The work

rators
of the Councils for the last two years has made it necessary for Non-co-ope
these
from
strength
to enter the Councils. The Bureaucracy has received added
generally,
speaking
Councils,
Reformed Councils, and those who have entered the
strategy
have helped the cause of Bureaucracy.’ So Council-entry was only a new
he said, ‘by opof non-co-operation. ‘We must non-cooperate with the Bureaucracy,’

posing each and every work of the Council.

We must disallow the entire budget.

possible occasion; and
We must move the adjournament of the House on every

defeat every Bill that may be

introduced. In fact we must so proceed that the

