Entry’
day

dated 11 April 1924 a copy of which was forwarded to Motilal the following

Mahatma Gandhi

raised ﬁve objections to

the Swarjya Party’s policy

of en-

tering the legislative bodies: (1) ‘it has a strong smell of violence about it 2’ (2)
‘It has retarded the progress of the constructive programme’ : (3) ‘it was prernature’ :
(4) ‘it is tantamount to taking part in the present system of Government’ (5) ‘it is
tantamount to abandoning the Khilaf'at and the Punjab causes.’ Both Chittaranjan
and Motilal countered the arguments. As Mr. B. R. Nanda has said in his book
The Nehrus the Swarajists appeared to be the ‘revisionists with one important difference : they had to contend with the living Marx of nonzviolent non-coperation”.
What then made the Belgaum compromise possible? On the face of it the
agreement appears to be the result of mutual concession, Chittaranjan
followers accepting the spinning qualiﬁcation for membership of the

and his
Congress

and Mahatma Gandhi accepting Council-Entry. But essentially it was something
more vital than a political bargain. In fact, neither the Mahatma nor' the Deshabandhu would think in terms of a bargain. Some No-Changers thought that
Mahatma Gandhi had surrendered to the Pro-Changers : the Viceroy wrote that
‘Gandhi is now attached to the tail of Das and Nehru’.

But actually

it

was neither

a victory for Chittaranjan nor a victory for Mahatma Gandhi. The two came so
close to each other because the political temper of both was essentially a spiritual
and moral temper. Mahatma Gandhi paid him many tributes and did so in words
of unreserved admiration. The most signiﬁcant of them is the one in which he
said that he ‘was deeply religious.

He was not merely great, but ‘he was good and

growing in goodness.’ It was indeed an extraordinary tribute from Gandhi who
shared his countrymen’s admiration for his powers of eloquence, his remarkable legal
acumen, his intense patriotism and capacity for leadership.

But how are we to under-

stand today the element in his nature which Sarojini Naidu called Vaishnavite and
in what sense did Mahatma Gandhi call him a deeply religious man ? There is
certainly a good deal in his public speeches which is suggestive of a profoundly
religious imagination. And he made this a part of his political imagination. He
saw the possibility of this combination ﬁrst in Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, then
in Sri Aurobindo and ﬁnally in Mahatma Gandhi. He had his pride and his due
share of the human passions.

As a prosperous lawyer he even rolled in the luxu-

ries of life till he renounced his legal practice in 1921. But he had a tender sensitive mind which searched for a higher and deeper life, the life of the spirit. Of
that life his ﬁve books of poems in Bengali published between 1896 and 1915 are
an authentic expression.

tedly ﬁne poems.

They are not great poetry; but most of

They are, however, of great signiﬁcance as the

them are admit-

diary of the inner

life of a man who dominated the Indian political scene for eight years both as an
opponent and a collaborator of a leader to whom truth was the very core of all
politics. And no less important, from this point of View, are his many essays on

Bengali poetry.

Chittaranjan’s Bengali writings

in verse

and

prose

may

not attract serious

academic attention: they may not really deserve detailed critical notice. Yet to

