study them as a prelude to his political life may be a fruitful exercise. It may offer
insights into the personality of a man of public affairs whose political zeal had
its roots in his spiritual and moral imagination. The most striking thing about his
verse is that it is not patriotic verse although most of it was composed at a time
when he was watching the exciting political events in the country in the twenty years .
between 1895 and 1915. It is true his political career began in 1917 when he presided over the Calcutta session of the Bengal Provincial Conference and spoke at
the Calcutta session of the Congress. But he was not in the least indifferent to the
affairs of the country in the period convered by his literary career. He spoke on
the Indian question while prepaaring himself for the I.C.S. examination in London
in 1891 ; worked for Dadabahi Naoroji when he was contesting a seat in the House

of Commons: when James Maclean, a member of Parliament, said that England
must keep India‘ by the sword Chittaranjan attacked him in a powerful speech in
the same year and Maclean not only made a public apology but also resigned his
seat in the House of Commons. In 1905, the ﬁrst year of the Swadeshi Movement,
he founded at his residence a society called the Swadeshi Mandali for the propagation of the new ideology in politics. He addressed an anti-Partition meeting held
at Darjeeling on 16 October the same year, helped Bipin Chandra Pal in starting
Vandemataram nationalist daily in 1906 and attended the Barisal Conference and the
Calcutta sessions of the Congress the same year. In 1907 he defended Bipin Chandra

Pal, Brahmabandhab Upadhyaya and Bhupendranath Datta, prosecuted for their
political activity. In 1907-1908 he defended Aurobindo Ghose accused of conspiracy
purpose. This
to wage war against the King and collecting arms for the
was quite a impressive involvement in public affairs. But of this there is no trace
in the poetry that he wrote during the period.

His lyrics are mostly an expression

of love and despair, devotion and unrest and have none of the patriotic sentiment
which inspired the poetry of so many of his contemporaries. Yet his poems are
important for an understanding of the more remarkable features of his political life.
After his death Rabindranath Tagore said about him : ‘Man truly reveals himself
through his gift, and the best gift that Chittaranjan has left for his countrymen is
not any particlar

political or

social programme, but the creative force of a great

aspiration that has taken a deathless form in the sacriﬁce which his life represented.’
Of this ‘creative force of a great aspiration’

Chittaranjan’s poems are an expression.

In the last eight years of his life this creatve force was transferred from poetry to
politics till all his work in the national movement acquired the spirit of what Sarojini
Naidu called a Vaishnavite rhapsody.

In one of his poems composed at Darjeeling in the year of his death there
is a
ﬁne sense of resignation which, as we will presently see, is anticipat
ed in a poem
included in the volume published in 1896 :
‘This wreath of ﬂowers is indeed a crown of thorns, and it
IS sweet as honey and yet burns like gall/I must take all thou
hast given ;/Every
joy and every pain ;/But look, there are thy feet/What offering
I have brought for

