thee.’ In his malancha published in 1896 there

5 a poem entitled. ‘Tapasi’ (The, Mendi-

cant) in which he speaks of the great moment of renunciation when one loves to
be a world-forsaker if only to achieve the highest fulﬁlment of‘ his life:

‘I

have

smeared

my' body

with

ashes,/My

golden

dream is

fading now./I have brought my life’s vessel to they feet;/Look, it is crimson like
the hibiscus, the offering of my heart.’ In his 'agar—Sangit, the most well-known of
his ﬁve books of verse, there is a yearning for a fuller and richer life, a devotion
. to something afar from the sphere of our sorrow which, it would seem,

later pro-

mpted the poet to devote himself so completely to a great cause:

‘Drown me, 0 Mighty

Spirit;/And

take me

I

to

thy

other

shore/For then will the hope of my dream be fulﬁlled;/ And my beggar’s heart will make
me a king.’ There was a mendicant at the centre of his being when he declared himself an
insolvent in 1906, when he, and here we may quote the words of SriAurobindo, ‘put

away from him all other thoughts and abandoned all his practice, sat up half the
night day after day for months and broke his health to save me’, when he was

at the height of his legal practice, when he gave up that practice in 1921 to honour
the pledge of boycotting the law-courts in the non-co-operation movement, when
stricken with an illness from which he did not recoverer he made a gift of his
house and all his real property to the nation and when he came to the Bengal
Council as a sick man carried on a stretchwer to prevent the introduction of the

Bengal Criminal Law Amendment Bill.
It was this strong spiritual element in his nature which gave his leadership and
his ideas its special character and Mahatma Gandhi alone amongst his contemporaries
in Indian politics had a basically religious approach to political questions. But the
two men were religious in two different ways.

Mahatma Gandhi achieved sainthood

through long years of ascetic self-discipline. He pursued moral perfection through
a rigorous process of self-training ever striving to realize the highest virtues in every
breath of his life, in all that he said or did as a private, individual and as a pulic leader. With Chittaranjan religion was a matter of temper rather than of training,
of impulse rather than of hard self-culture. In Mahatma Gandhi we have an example of an extraordinary rigour of conscience while in Chittaranjan was an embo-

diment of a sponteneity of consciousness. Mahatma Gandhi’s religion was therefore
severely ethical while Chittaranjan’s ethic itself was rooted in a tender religious
sensibility. Yet Chittaranjan shared Mahatma Gandhi’s care for truth in public
conduct and utmost integrity in handling political affairs. When Lord Peel pressed
the Labour Government of Ramsay Macdonald to prosecute Chittaranjan for his

supporting the Sirajganj resolution extolling the patriotism of Gopinath Saha who
was hanged for political murder Lord Olivier, then Secretary of State for India,
strongly declined to do it because, as he said,

he had no doubt about the man’s

