sense of honour.
Das

in

India

Lord Lytton had then written to

had

the

reputation

a

of being

the Indian Secretary that Mr.

particularly

upright and scrupulous

saintliness of character.’ Chittaranjan was
politician, second only ‘ to Gandhi himself in
But he placed the life of the Spirit
not a saint and never claimed to be one.
politics to that life. The lyric menhis
d
relate
above all material concerns and he
tioned as his last poem

in his Collected Bengali Works obviously composed at Dar-

Krishna,
jeeling in June 1925 a few days before his death is an apostrophe to Lord
.
his God on earth.
This religious imagination was naturally rooted in the traditions of his country
and consequently it made him a spirited exponent of Indian culture.

Here again

he was very close to Mahatma Gandhi Who wanted to give nationalism a spiritual
meaning consistent with the highest ideals of an ancient civilization. A colonial
in such
country exalts its past if only to cover up the ignominy of its present. And
recultural
and
radicalism
political
of
mixture
queer
a
often
have
we
a situation
The revivalism is sometimes carried to an extreme. In Ireland Douglas
for many
Hyde founded the Gaelic League in 1893 to revive the Irish language and

vivalism.

years thereafter the politically minded Irish intellectual pursued a programme of deanglicization of the country. In his address delivered before the Irish National
Literary Society Douglas Hyde said: ‘It is our Gaelic past which . . . . is really at
the bottom of the Irish heart.’ In the Indian political scene a reverence for our
own tradition became a mark of nationalism from the nineties of the last century.
Chittaranjan was a spokesman of such cultural nationalism. ‘Western education had
given rise to a kind of soulless culture in our midst, he said in 1917, ‘culture that
is incapable of doing any good although it pretends to do so much.’ And this
was one of the fundamental things in Mahatma Gandhi’s nationalism.

There

was,

however,

an

important

difference

between

Ireland

and

India

in

respect of the importance of a cultural identity in the national struggle. The British
opponents of Irish Rome Rule were sometimes too voluble in denying Ireland her
nationhood to

strengthen

their case for Unionism.

In

1913 A. J.

Balfour

wrote

his pamphlet Nationalit; and Home Rule reject the idea of a separate Irish nationality
on both institutional and cultural grounds.

In our case the British never

claimed

that their rule was justiﬁed by the influence of their culture on our people. But
we had our anxiety about the denationalizing effect of our educated classes’ fancy
for anything western. Both Chittaranjan Das and Mahatma Gandhi took a ﬁrm
stand against this westernization. Both appeared to be revivalists in the eye of the
liberals of the middle path. Chittaranjan smelt an unhealthy westernism in the
poetry of Rabindranath, criticized Raja Rammohan Roy’s failure to understand the
poetry and the philosophy of the Vaishnava movement, even welcomed the revivalist
zeal of Shashadhar Tarkachuramani as a sign of returning respect for a lost heritage
and denounced the whole system of English education

rooted the Indian mind from its own soil.

which he

thought had up-

‘We repeat ad nauseam the political

maxims of Burke’ he said ‘we imbibe the words of Gladstone and. think perchance

