they represent the scheme of political wisdom or we make choice quotations from
Seeley’s Expansion ofEngland and Sidgwick’s treatises on Politics.’ This is admittedly
in the manner of Mahatma Gandhi whose remark on Raja Rammohan Roy that
he was a pigmy when compared with the medieval saints hurt Tagore.
This faith in the strength in India’s own culture and antipathy towards any

foreign inﬂuence that might weaken it, determined his political ideas in respect of
their three major aspects. And here again he is very close to Mahatma Gandhi.
It is now important to see how similar are Chittaranjan’s ideas on Swaraj to the
conception

of self-government

presented

in

Mahatma

Gandhi’s

Hind Swaraj

pub-

lished ﬁrst in Gujarati and then in English in 1910. The three most important
features of Chittaranjan’s political thought are (1) Swaraj is something more substantial than

the

transfer of Governmental

powers

from

British to Indian hands.

(2) Swaraj is for the masses and not for the educated classes alone. (3) The foundation of real democracy must be laid in small centres.
Chittaranjan did not conceive :of Swaraj as but our liberation from foreign
rule. Swaraj was not to him only getting back a lost freedom : it was also getting
back a lost heritage. Political liberty such as the West valued and political institutions such as the West thought essential for the preservation of that liberty. were
not in his View the summum bonum of our political struggle. The essence of freedom was not that we ruled ourselves: the essence of freedom was that we were
free to be ourselves.

‘The mere mention of “Politics” conjures up before our eyes

the vision of English political institutions; and we feel tempted to fall down before
and worship the precise form which politics has assumed under the peculiar condition of English history. Would gladly transplant the English article altogether to
our native soil, and we never consider whether we will ﬁnd that soil congenial for

its growth or not.’ We are reminded of Mahatma Gandhi’s harsh remarks on the
Mother of Parliament in the ﬁfth chapter of his Hind Swaraj.
The most important pronouncement of Chittaranjan on Swaraj for the masses
is in the speech he delivered at the Debra Dun Conference held on 1 November
1922, shortly after his release from prison.’ I do not want that sort of Swaraj,
he said, ‘which will be for the middle-classes alone.
not for the classes.

I want Swaraj for the masses,

I do not care for the bourgeoisie. ' How few are they ‘2 Swaraj

must be for the masses, and must be won by the masses.’

‘How will it proﬁt

India,’ he asked in his Gaya address,. if in place of the white Bureaucracy that _

now rules over her (India), there is substituted an Indian Bureaurcracy of the Middle
Classes.

Bureaucracy is Bureaucracy, and I believe that the very

inconsistent with the existence of a Bureaucracy.

idea of Swaraj is

My ideal of Swaraj will never be

satisﬁed unless the people cooperate with us in its attainment. Any other attempt
will lead to what European socialists call the Bourgeois Government. In France,
in England and in other European countries it is the Middle Class who fought
the battle of freedom and the result is that power is still in the hands of this class.’

