This rejection of the western type of class—based and therefore unreal democracy necessarily led him towards the idea of decentralization of governmental athority. He presented this idea in his Gaya address of 1922. ‘To me the organizatlon
- of village life and the practical autonomy of small local centres are more important
than either provincial autonomy or central responsibility; and if the chorce lay
between the two, I would unhesitatingly accept the autonomy of the local centres.
I maintain that real Swaraj can only be attained by vesting the power of Government in these local centres. . . .the most advanced thought of Europe is turning from

the false individualism on which European culture and institutions are based to
what I know to be the ideal of the ancient village organization of India. According
to this thought modern democracy of the ballot box and
but real democracy has not yet be on tried,

large crowds has failed,

‘The foundation of real democracy,’

he afﬁrmed, ’must be laid in small centres—not gradual decentralization which implies
a previous centralization—but a gradual integration of the practically autonomous
small centres into one living harmonious whole. What is wanted is a human state
not a mechanical contrivance.’

By the ‘most advanced thought of Europe’ he ob-

viously meant the pluralists who attacked the idea of the monistic state. There is
a good deal in the Gaya address to show Chitranjan’s acquintance with the exponents of the plurastic theory of the state and their attack upon state sovereignty.
There is no means of knowing whether he read Leon Duguit’s The Transformation
of the Theory Of the State known in its English edition as Law in the Modern State

published in 1919 or Krabbe’s The Modern Idea of the State which was not translated
into English till 1922. But that he knew the work of a quite a few of this school
is evident from his reference to Miss Mary P. Follett’s book entitled The New State
published in New York in 1918. And it is not unlikely that he read Harold Laski’s
review of this book in the New Republic the following year. In the Gaya address
Chittaranjan quotes several passages from this work in support of his argument that
‘No

Government

will

be

successful,

no

true

Government

will be

possible

which

does not rest on the individual.’ He reproduces the well-known statement of F'ollett
that ‘up to the present moment we have never seen the individual yet. The search
for him has been the whole long striving of our

Anglo-Saxon

history.

him through the method of representation and failed to ﬁnd him.

We sought

We sought to

reach him by extending the suffrage to every man and then to every woman and
yet he eludes us.’ To Chittaranjan the substance of true democracy was ‘the in-

tegration of the will of individuals into the common and collective will of the entire
nation.’ In Follett’s words, and they are quoted in the Gaya address, ‘democracy
rests on the well-grounded assumption that the society is not a collection of units,
but a net-work of human relations. Democracy is not worked out at the polling

b00318; it is the bringing forth of a genuine collective will, one to which every
single being must contribute the whole of his complex life as one which every single
being must express the whole at one point. Thsus' the essence of democracy
is

creation.

The

techniqe

of democracy is group

organization.’

Chittaranjan then presents his scheme of an ideal democratic Government and

