deﬁnes its ﬁve vital features: (1) the formation of local centres more or less on
the lines of the ancient village system of India : (2) the growth of larger and larger

groups out of the integration of these village centres : (3) the unifying state should
be the result of similar growth: (4) the village centres and the larger groups must
be practically autonomous : (5) the residuary power of control must remain

in the

Central Government but the exercise of such power should be exceptional and for
that purpose proper safeguard should be provided, so that the practical autonomy
Of the local centres may be maintained and at the same time the growth of the
Central Government into a really unifying state may be possible.
The ordinary
work of such central Government should be mainly advisory.
This is, 011 the whole, a restatement of what he had said about village assem-

blies and district assemblies in his presidential speech at the Bengal Provincial Conference of 1917. Obviously it was intended to be but a bare outline of what he
wanted to say. And in the limited space of a presidential address there was no
scope for elaboration of the ideas on a purely theoretical plane.

He was not ex-

pected to stress that his pluralism had nothing in common with either Kropotkin’s
anarchism or Sorel’s syndicalism for he was ﬁrmly committed to non-violence.

But

what he miss in his scheme is a consideration of the complexities of the art of
government. For even welcoming the idea of evolving a governmental system and
not grafting on our society a ready-made system from the West we have a reasonable
anxiety about the possibility

of such

decentralization.

Actually

Chitatranjan

does

not make a plea for decentralization; he envisages a process which does not leave
any scope for a strong to centre to come into existence. It may, therefore appear
that his Vaishnavite-Hegelian idea of a theodicy in human history, almost a mystical
sense of order emerging out of individual and group action, made all known prob-

lems of government irrelevant to his political philosophy.
circumstances

under

which

ﬁnest ideals of democracy.
the fatality of idealism.

the

actual

Perhaps it
'

art

He did not reﬂect on the

of government

not for the idealists

inevitably

perverted

the

to be concerned about

This pluralist view of Government made Chittaranjan an exponent of federalism

In his Gaya address he urged the participation of India in an Asian Federation
which he thought would gradually replace the Pan-Islamic movement. When in his
Faridpur address, his last public speech, he declared that it would be for the‘ ‘good
of India, for the good of the Commonwealth for the good of the world that India
hushould strive for freedom within the Commonwealth and so serve the cause of
year
A
moderates.
the
to
concession
manity’ many thought it a most disappointing
later M. N. Roy said in his The Future of Indian Politics that in this address
Chittaranjan had ‘come to the nadir of moderation.’ Actually it was his idea of
federalism which was behind this gesture. And his federalism demanded full autonomy for the component units. Whether such federalism was possible under the cir-

cumstance was, however, another question.

It is, at the same time, evident from

his stress on the full independence of the f'ederating units that he was opposed to-

