116 1३.3त्रा6 cf fu’eralism Irrn like F. S. Olixer suggested in his Federalism andHome
Rule (1910) and What Federalism is Not (1914). It is not unlikely that he insisted
on the full autonomy of the units by way of countering Oliver’s theory that in a

federal government authority must ensure the triumph of centripetal over centrifugal
forces. To Chittaranjan Government itself was a matter or division rather than
devolution

of authority. ३

Today 45 years after his death what must we value in his life and work?
Our younger generation have scarcely any notion of what he did or wanted to do
for the country. Their elders too have but a very faint image of the man. His

political ideas are now the commonplaces of political science.

The method of poli-

tical action which we claim brought us our political freedom, non-violent non-cooperation, was a Gandhian method which he only accepted although he accepted

it because it was consistent with his own ideas.

The present system of govern-

ment in the country is a negation of his idea of democracy.

The Partition of the

country exposed the emptiness of the Bengal Pact which he sponsored for HinduMuslim Unity. In Bengal there is very little in the municipal life of its largest
city to show that he was its ﬁrst Mayor. The literary idealism with which he founded the magazine Narayana in 1914 would now be slighted as a form of obscurantism in letters. As a Brahmo who later became a Vaishnavite he has scarcely a
place in the history of either Brahrnoism or Vaishnavism.

Perhaps the only good of recalling a man such as this is that ‘we can-not
look, however imperfectly, upon a great man, without graining something by him.,
It is a saying of Carlyle who believed in some ‘divine relation which in all times

11,133.35 a Great Man to other men’ Even in times such as we. are living in today
it may be worth while toirei’ectgon a life of such noble 1121)8111-2

३' whatevér be th 3
style of dress
hair oil must gate

Non-greasy
Non-staining

“I.

Gently perfumed

moms-ram

' '

''

I

"

.….….

