N ata ka

There are some folk forms ३ in theatre that verge on the classical.
form is the Prahalad Nataka of Orissa.

One such

Based on classical ragas it is a full-fledged opera. lts movements are entirely
related to the musical rhythm. If has much dancing. Even some of its costumes
make-up and masks represent a traditionally defined design. The actors perform
on the ground surrounded on three sides by audience sitting on the same level.
The fourth side is blocked by Hiranya Kasipu's throne placed on a step unit about
9 feet high. The steps are as much part of the crystallsed style as is the compiex
dancing of the actors on these same steps.

‘ All these facets of the form — the decor the dancing the melodies and the
soprano singing — are rigidly followed by all practitioners of Prahalad Nataka_
. None may swerve from any of them. Thus the tradition acquires the complexion of
a classical form.
.
, Lots of cymbals dholaks and chorus singers is another essential requirement.
Music has dramatic variation and tension. It is built up with skilful changes in
दृ rhythm and tempo. lt rises every now and again to a frenzied crescendo. The tension
. at this point is almost unsupportable beyond a brief moment. This over and we

_ are allowed once again to be lulled by the low ebb of peaceful beats. And all this
makes for a devotional feeling extremely contagious in its appeal.
Some of these moments denote a thematic climax.

Others signify stylised

. entries. . Some folk parties would have H iranya. Kasipu enter on a dummy elephant

with great pomp and a clever display of fireworks. This happened in Baulgam a
village in Ganjam district. In fact there is hardly an entry to which some ceremony
is not attached.
In Baulgam I also saw a live cobra used in the snake charmer'sseqUence

where an attempt is made by Hiranya Kasipu to get his son Prahalad killed by
snakes. Various other devices are adopted to kill Prahalad. But these are cut from

ई

r—a

(N

I...

८८८८"

. 3.

1
I

ﬁr’

.J'

ﬂ

व्याख्या "३३

P raha|acl H

