the present version for reasons of brevity. The scene where
wrestlers potential
killers of Prahalad are finally subdued by him is another such exampl
e.
The boy had received his Bhagti shiksha in the mother's womb.
All you hear
him invoke is Shri Hari each time his father counsels him to pay
homage to Shiva.
It is pleaded by court councillors that the boy is green and instruc
tion might
improve his mind. But the gurus who come to teach him to worship his
ancestral
god Shankar meet with discornfiture. Vishnu himself comes to the boy's
rescue
at the end when the King reaches the height of his tyranny. He threate
ns to kill
his son. In his extreme bigotry he challenges Prahalad to prove that
indeed

Narayana is Omnipresent. If God is everywhere He could reveal Himself even in a
pillar. And this is the moment of the non-believer's undoing.
But Hiranya Kasipu cursed to be a rakshasa for generations had a
boon
bestowed upon him by Shiva. He could not be killed by man or animal, inside
his house or outside, upon earth or in mid-air. No weapon could vanquish him
either. Vishnu therefore had to appear as half man half lion, take a stance on the

threshold of the house, bring H iranya Kasipu on his thighs and tear his guts out
with his nails.
Before this is done however the King senses his doom. He is aware that
his final deliverance from the cycle of life will be effected by Vishnu himself. On
sighting the Lion Incarnation of Vishnu he coronates the young boy Prahalad and
gives him sumptuous advice before the final battle.
Vishnu‘s mask worn by the actor represents God's image. It may not be
revealed without the ceremony of puja attendant on it. The ritual is performed
before the revelation occurs. The actor playing the Lion Incarnation of Vishnu is
almost in a trance. So is Hiranya Kasipu just before this moment of supreme
revelation for he knows he must merge with the Divine and therefore seeks his end
eagerly.
For this reason the two actors do not always come close together. Once it
so happened that an actor playing Hiranya Kasipu managed to catch hold of the

boy Prahalad and in his frenzy threw him

up in the

air.

Members of the

audience managed to save the boy by catching hold of him before he fell down. But
this so enraged the actor playing Nrusingha Avatara that he emerged out of the

pillar even before his time, caught hold of Hiranya Kasipu, tumbled him down and
gave him fierce blows on his chest. The actor died on the spot. Since then
drama groups are wary of putting the two close together. At all events they have
the actor playing Nrusingha Avatara tied to a rape controlled by two or more
helpers.

Prahalad Nataka is confined to Ganjarn district of Orissa.

The performing

party comes from Khajuria village near Berhampur. A preliminary survey revealed
that the form is becoming rare. I watched this play done by three groups _ the
third being in village Baula Jhuli, again near Berhampur.
Traditionally the play takes 4 to 5 hours. The present version prepared
specially for the urban audience is the outcome of the Orissa Folk Performing Arts
Workshop held at Gopalpur-on-Sea.

