Like in Radha Prem Lila another popular folk theatre from of Ganjarn, Bha rat
Lila uses children for female

roles and sometimes even for male roles as in the

case of the Jugudi village party which stayed
the Gopalpur Workshop.

with

us for the duration of

The present party comes form Kabisuryanagar a village in Ganjarn that is
particularly rich in folk arts. Even so the form has dwindled in recent years.
The fact that children take the roles of Subhadra in Bharata Lila and of
Prahalad in Prahalad Nataka seems re-assuring of the future of these forms. A
talented child actor after growing up is ready for the difficult role of Dwari and
naturally steps into it. Similarly a good Prahalad may end up playing Hiranya
Kasipu in later years. The demands Of virtuosity made on folk actors by the
initiated village audience are great. They call for years of hard work on the part
of actors. Yet the economics of folk theatre even in Ganjarn do not permit the
luxury of the vocation. Asa consequence many folk drama groups give up
the ordeal and wander away into other areas of activity that present a more
convincing mirage of employment.
H A B | B TA N VI R
D i recto r

N AYA TH EATR E
95, South Avenue
New Delhi

ORISSA FOLK PERFORMING ARTS WORKSHOP GOPALPUR-ON-SEA
Mr. Habib Tanvir after a preliminary survey in February 1976 conducted a
two-week Orissa Folk Performing Arts WorkShOp at GOpalpur-On-Sea in the

Ganjarn district of Orissa during April on behalf of the Ministry of Education 8
Social Welfare Government of India.

About 50 folk artists of Ganjarn representing two Bharata Lila parties and one
Prahalad . Nataka party participated in it. Of these, two parties are presenting
their plays as follows :
21 April 9 PM.
Market Place Gopalpur-on Sea
28 April 9 PM.
Khajuria Village Berhampur
30 April 9 PM.
Neel Kanth Bhavan Berharnpur
19 May 7 PM.
Delhi
Birla Mandir lawns New
May 7 P,M.
20
Rabindra Bhavan lawns New Delhi
Orissa Sangeet Natak Akaderni

’ compound Bhubaneswar

27 May 7 PM.
ZAMIR ANSARI
Secretary
N AYA THEATRE
,N ew Del h i

