A scene mm the play ‘Blod & Beauty’ staged by Natraj
Natya Kunj at DIET auditorium in Reasi.

'Blood & Beauty' staged in

ongoing Theatre Festival
Excelsior Correspondent

REASI, Nov 1: Natraj Natya
Kunj Cultural Society Jammu
presents Dogri play "Blood &
Beauty", a Dogri folk tale, in
ongoing Theatre Festival-2015
here at DIET auditorium.
MLA Gool/Arnas and former

and power. The play is not only
supreme in character and dialogue but it is one of the few
Dogri plays which are based on
the classic folk tales of
Himalayan region.
The play carries two folk tales
together, one is ofthe 'Hira Haran'
(from where ‘Haran', a Dogri folk

Cabinet Minister, Ajaz Ahmed theatre form, which is on the

Khan was the chief guest on the verge ofits dying stage, is generoccasion while Sarver Mir, an ated) and another is a love saga of
advocate and social activist, was 'iju Chanchlo'. Both the stothe guest of honour.
ries go simultaneously and reach
Being organized by Sangam the same end with dramatic syruTheatre Group Reasi and support- bols created by chorus. The
ed by Union Ministry of Culture, Pahari music, folk dance and
the play was written by Kumar A visual effects of body theatre
Bharti and directed by Abhishek added to the beauty of the play.
Bharti.
The artist who performed in
The play is based on the folk the play were Aman Shanna,
tale of "Kunju Chanchlo" which Saras Bharti, Niharika Sakshi,
deals with the rift between love Mukesh Bakshi, Akshay Razdan,
Sushmita Banerjee, Rakesh
Dogra, Karan Mehra, Kannav

Sharma, Rahul, Abhishek, Manil,
Ishfaq, Neha, Shubhanhi, Lalit,

Lokesh Chander, Bakshi Ram
५ Rogi, Krishan Lal Mast, Karan

Mehra and Garu Ram, Lights
were executed by Aaditya Bharti
and Niharika Sakshi, Make-up
was done by Manoj Dharnir
Sharni while the sets were
designed by Niharka Sakshi,

Neha Bhat and Shubhangi
The costumes were designed
by Sonia Dubey while the singers
who lent their voice were Dipali
Wattal and Surinder Manhas.

" ‘ ‘ “’ ’1"!

Surbhi, Vishal and Shubharn.
The music was rendered by
Surinder Manhas, Lyrics by

