PARAMPARIK LOK KALAYEIN and GARHWAL KI PARAMPARIK LOK
KALAYEIN for the Ministry of Culture, all directed by Bharti Sharma.
In 1991, Kshitij organised a production-oriented intensive theatre workshop

in Jharkhand with the Children of the employees of Damodar Valley
Corporation (DVC)"& Chandrapura Thermal Power Stations (C.'I‘.P.S.) in
1997, the group performed for the Gas Authority of India Ltd. (GAIL). It has
also been invited by the India Trade Promotion Organisation, Pragati Maidan,

to perform plays during the inaugural ceremonies of Children’s Fair in 1995
and Women’s Development Fair in 1997.

The Director
Kirti Jain, M.A. English Literature, NSD Diploma in Dramatics; awarded Best
Director and Best All Round Student; associated with eminent theatre experts

of international repute; directed and acted in several plays including direction
of a play in the UK; conducted theatre workshops in London and York.
Worked as TV producer (1972-77) and produced several plays and

documentaries; gave extension lectures on Western and Indian Drama at
different forums in India and abroad and published articles in theatre journals

in Hindi and English. Visited several countries including USA, UK, Germany,
China, Poland 8: USSR to participate in seminars under the Cultural Exchange
Programme. Teaching Modern Indian Drama at NSD since 1977, was
appointed Director NSD in 1988 8: headed the institution till 1995.

About the Play
Subarnalata, the play is a dramatization of the well—known novel, by the
same name, by Ashapoorna Devi. It is the second part of an award winning
trilogy, spanning the lives of three generations of women in early 20th century

Bengal. The first novel is Pratham Pratishruti, the third being Bakul Katha.
Subarnalata is the story of a woman who married at the age of nine is caught
in the web of an orthodox system, that denies self expression, questioning

any interaction with the outside world, spends her life protesting against
this indignity and injustice. She inherited this spirit from her mother, who
leaves her home forever when she finds her daughter secretly married off at

that young age against her wishes. Subarnalata is thus waging a lonely battle
against a well established male - dominated system, only to be isolated from
everyone, even her children who cannot comprehend her angst.
The narrative is addedly relevant given the nationalist and reform movement
prevalent during that period in Bengal.

