The Smart Act
i

५ V,

Headed ’byuldlilena Dragicevic Sesic, UNESCO Chair in Cultural Po icy and Management, a theatre
programme imparts management skills to amateur groups. in In a 1a
try, is overseeingSMART. “Public arts policy in
India does not pay enough attention to con—
temporary art;The focus is much more ontra—
ditional art forms," says Sesic. “When the
Indian government has to send a performing
artist abroad, for instance,it is always one who
practises traditional arts. InFrance, on the other
hand, contemporarytheatre groups might be
givena grant forthree years anda public space
wherethey canperform.That way, the troupe
is able to buildan audiencewithout facingtoo

RADHIKA SINGH
EVERY YEAR, dozens of new theatre troupes
form across the country, its members
propelled by leftover energy fromtheir university days. And every year, dozens of these
amateurgroups wither away,dying adefeated
death, only to become memories of a more
youthfultime.
v
According to Milena Dragicevic Sesic, core
consultant for the theatre management programme Strategic Management in the Art of
Theatre, or SMART, and the current UNESCO
Chairin CulturalPolicy andManagement, their
- disbandment is not the inevitable consequenceofpeople having to “growup" and “get
realjobs". Rather, it is the lack ofgovemment
support, discouragement from family and
inability ofthese groups to take advantage of
opportunities, that results in their death.
“SMART is trying to train suchgroups to deal
with such problems,” she says.
The programme,which isin itssecondyear,
works with leaders of theatre groups to develop short andlong-termstrategic plansover
a course ofﬁve months. SMART has a number

much economic pressure," she adds.

Milena Dragicevic Sesic(fourth from left) with the membe ofi'the core team

The lack offamilial support for those in—
volved in theatre is another consequence of
the disparaging public sectorattitude towards
contemporary theatre, says Se‘s'ic. “Theatre
groups should come togetherto lobbythe gov—
ernmentfor more fundingand attention.Once
contemporarytheatre receives attentionfrom

the government, societalrecognition will folof established names on board, such as
Junoon’s Sanjna Kapoor and Swati Apte,
Mumbai—based Apama's Sunil Shanbag, and
Sudhanva Deshpande fromjana Natya Manch
andStudio Safdarin Delhi.Thesetrainers were
also mentors forthe programmelastyearthat
tookunder itswing 17 amateurtheatregroups

from across India.
sive workshops sp
ers will guide the 1
studies, analysing
others succeeded.
Sesic, Who has

rough a series of intenad over a year, the trainders through varied case
by some have failed and
velled across Indiato get

a better sense of p ' orrning arts in the coun—

low," Se§ic says, citing the example of

Cambodia, where UNESCO had organised a
meet-and—greet between people involved in
theatre and members of the Ministry of
Culture. “People came to thank us. Finally,
within their friends and family, they were
recognised as doingsomething important."

