Lok Kala Manch, Mansa.

1 1 . National Theatre Arts Society, Patiala.

Has emerged recently on the Panjabi theatre
scence. Their play written and directed by Prof.
Ajrner Singh Aluakh, “Beganey Bohar di Chaan”
received many awards both within Er outside
Punjab, forecasting a bright future for this

Under the guidance of

Pran Sabharwal have

been endeavouring to Cultivate Punjabi culture.
Their play “Bakri” and “Sabrang” have won state
distinction.

Group.

1 2 ७ Young Indian Theatre, Patiala.
Punjab Rang Manch, Batala.
Formed by talented
youngsters, has done
tremendous work in the field of music Er drama.
They have produced “Tu Ser, Main Sawah Ser”
and "Saiyan Kidhery Wadhayian Kidhery” which

The moving spirit behind this group is V.K. Bawa
This troupe has produced a large number of one
act plays such as “Madiyan di pooja” Er Paatar
te Parchvey” which won the compliments and
appreciation of people in Gurdaspur.

Raghukul Arts Theatre, Sultana, Ropar.

have vast pOpular appeal.

13 .

Bhatinda Art Theatre.

Based in the village, this theatre group has done

ls emerging as a theatre group with restricted
appeal, and they have produced a large nimber
of one act plays for various occasions. Besides,
many other theatre groups in Punjab this has
given an atmosphere of continuous flux and
movement.

tremendous work in creating taste री appreciation
for theatrical art amongst the rural peOple. Their
themes, emphasise eradication of social evils and
Set guidelines for moral life. Well known plays
include “Hakikat Rai", “Dahej” 8 "Raja Harish
Chander Taramati”.

Progressive Dramatic Club. Patiala.
Founded

by Sh.

Gain

Gukar,

to

14

dramatic arts in Patiala. has won state acclaim
for their play “Pagal Lok” and “Apni Kamayi”
which has toured the entire state.

1 ﬂ.

Theatre Panorama. New Delhi.

popularize

Panjahi Kala Kendra, Chandigarh.
Has proved to be the biggest promoter of theatre
movement in Punjab and Specialised in conducting drama festivals Er rnelas giving an opportunity
for breakthrough to younger and newer artistes.
Their open air theatre in Mohali gained fame
for “Asin Marian-de-Nahin-Geet”

Theatre Panorama is the most popular group in
Delhi. It has produced a mixed bag of plays such
as “Chari-Jawani—Bude-Noon”, “Galan Pyar
Diyan”, “Tin Sonian Ek Mahiwal” Er “Natak Kar
Da Rang Manch”. They have staged a large
number of hilarious Er entertaining comedies in
Punjabi which have been applauded by Delhi
audience. Surindera Mathur is the cynosure of
the shows staged by Theatre panorama

