changing role

pf words
३i n
theatre
—an interview with mohan rakesh
by mohan maharishi

[Before we finally settled down for the interview session,
’Mr. Rakest read out a short experimental script of his,
hich he called Mad Delight. Four different versions of
this script were subsequently produced at a ten-day
Theatre Workshop session at Simla. The script was an
utline and was to be treated by the producers merely as
suggestion in the matter of juxtaposing sound, words
and visuals.
ohan Rakesh’s dissatisfaction with the present situation
n the theatre is deep and he, like many of us today, feels
strong urge to get back to the fundamentals of theatre.
he script Mad Delight was his first practical experiment
n a certain direction to understand his own thinking, as
e put it.

ohan Maharishi.
l. his script ?

What have you tried to achieve in

aviohan Rakesh. This is an initial step that may lead me
0 fragment sound and words later. I have been thinking
Ebout such fragmentation for a long time. | feel there has
een a lot of experimentation in theatre, where people
have tried to achieve certain fragrnentations of the visual.
Lt is mainly because of a sense of competition with the
cinema. It is felt by some people that theatre is handiLcapped because it cannot achieve the sort of quick succssion of visuals as is possible in cinema. Therefore, by
Eringing in more and more technical devices they unsucc'essfully try to import the sort of illusion in theatre as is
possible only in cinema. It is this that has led some
people to the logic of ‘Theatre of Mixed Means’, i.e. achiving visual fragmentation by arnalgarnating various
edia. | donot challenge the validity of such experiments,
ut if we understand the physical limitations of space in
heatre we know we cannot really go beyond a certain
oint in fragmenting the visual.
Therefore, the entire
rnphasis is likely to be misplaced. It is time we thought
f shifting it to something exclusive to theatre.
aharishi. And that is...?
akesh. During the course of my writing and thinking I
l ave been struck by the possibilities of fragmenting werds

and sound.

This short script of mine you have just refer-

