red to is only the very first step,

It only isolates to a cer-

tain extent the words and sound from the visual. The only
thing that l have tried to suggest is that it is possible to
break the logical continuity of words and sound to arrive
at a different type of language in theatre capable of imparting a more contemporary, if not a deeper human experience to our audiences. You have noticed that in this
script Mad Delight there is very little change in the visual.
There is a man and a mushroom and nothing much happens except that the man plucks the mushroom and goes
through certain movements indicative of his changing
relationship with t he mushroom. On the other hand quite
a lot happens on the sound-track that reveals and highlights the dilemma of this man. The arrangement of

sounds and words in this case does not adhere to any
apparent logic.

In fact there are only two characters in

this script—the sound and the visual.

The theatricality

of the piece lies in their dramatic juxtaposition.

Out of

these two characters, the visual and the sound, the fragmentation is only in the sound, in a limited way. Developing on these lines one may be able to evolve a form
where such fragmentation may become an integral part

of the dramatic texture.

Mad Delight is merely a very

preliminary stage towards understanding my own thinking.
Maharishi.

Why have you chosen

to

investigate the

area of words and sound ? How does it relate to what you
would eventually like to say through your plays .7
Rakesh. I think that the life we are living has developed
a different kind of tempo. It is also a life which is mostly
lived in fragments. That sustained emotion which must
have once been a part of people's being does not hold the
same character any longer. It is in the matter of suggesting the above fragmentation that cinema has been able to
take such big strides in the last few years. The life that
we live today, । mean all that is happening around us in
science and technology and other allied fields, has created
a different sense of being and has also sharpened our
responses in such a manner that we cannot get adjusted

to a leisurely and sustained pace either in fiction or in
threatre The contemporary cinema has acquired the pace
of time through fragmention of the visual. This question
of pace is equally important in theatre, if the needs of
today's mind are to be satisied. And my feeling is that
instead of looking for that pace in the visual, we can try
to find it in sound and words.

Maharishi. I notice that the sounds in Mad Delight are
used from off-stage and this places an extra emphasis on
the sound-track. Will it not affect the performer on the
stage in an adverse manner ?
Rakesh. No. He has and will always have an important
role to play. What lam trying to say is that the pace
which is demanded by today's sensibility is impossible
to achieve in theatre through any exercise, technical or
otherwise, on the visual side. This present experiment

may or may not succeed, but what I imply is that it is
possible to create a succession of sounds and words
which can, theatrically, reveal the pace of today's life and

mind. The actor remains important because it is through
his movements and gesticulations alone that the meaning
of words and sounds can be revealed to us. The director
also has a prime function for it is he who establishes the
relationship between the two — the sound and the
visual.
The words, the
actor and the director—
beyond these three any emphasis on anything else is

