could be elevated to the role of a principal entity. I do
not mean that it should always be this way. I do believe
that in the process of evolving this style of writing one
will brrive at a point W here most of the words and sounds
will aelong to the actors on the stage.
Maharishi. But that may seriously limit the scope of
of abstraction you are seeking because the actors physrcal and vocal apparatus has human limitations.
Rakesh. I am afraid your thinking is still governed by
the limitations of the present script. This script may demand a particular stylized behaviour from the actor, but I

do not think it will always be like that.

Even ordinary

action and entirely realistic movements of an actor can
acquire a nonrealistic or ultra-realistic connotation by being juxtaposed with certain sounds and words.
And
since we have concentrated too long on this point let us
pass from here by saying that it is only an exploration in
one direction and it is too early to say how far it would
really help in drastically changing the concept of playwriting for me. But somewhere I feel like making a beginn—
ing and 1 do mean to follow it up by further work.

Maharishi.

What do you think of the present situation

in lndian theatre ?
Rakesh.

We cannot deny that there is a crisis.

The

theatre here has not yet struck a real relationship with our
times. Not that the Western theatre has much succeeded
in doing so. Recently I saw a production of Pinter’s O/d
Times In London. A good play, very well acted, well produced. But a British playwright who had come to India
a few weeks back was

startled

when

I remarked that !t

was a good example of conventional theatre. ’Conventional theatre ?' he exclaimed. ’Ycu call Pinter conventional ?' I said ’Yes’. I call myself conventional too. I call
most of the theatre around me conventional.’
Most of today's theatre is either a good play or a good pro
duction and at times both.But itis not really a revelation of
what we are today. For this reason the revolt of the young
directors and actors in the West today is quite valid, while
some of their experiments may not be so. One cannot
blame them, for I think it is the playwright who has failed
them. In some of the countries one came across various
new things happening in the field of production, but what
excited me most was the theatre of young people with its
political context. In a certain sense these people did succeed in projecting the discontent of their time. But there
were very few such efforts which could also be called real
theatre. Unfortunately all such theatre has evolved its
own girnrnickry. In certain cases the fad of direct audience
participation has been used to very odd results. How can
any sort of real audience participation be achieved by planting a few actors in the auditorium .7 Talking of theatre
back at home, I would like to mention some of Utpal

Dutt's productions I saw recently.

Enjoyable theatre of

words, but only there were too many words. The words
were used by the playwright for their own sake. The

unending conversation

was enjoyed by the audience

because there were some good actOrs on the stage. But
the verbosrty of it all was tiring. This is the malady with

most of us. We have been writing words mostly for the
sake of their literary effect. The playwright uptil now
has remained basically the man of literature

and as such

he has been too fond of the literary connotation of words.
More often than not, many more words are written in a

