play than are necessary.

Still some drama comes across

because of certain words which have a true dramatic texture. Again, even when used un-economically, the words
that are conceived dramatically do create a dramatic impact. Talking of my own plays, the first two plays I wrote
were liked primarily for their literary refinement. But I
felt that because of that very reason they failed to capture
the mood and rhythm of life around me.
Though I used
characters from history to project a contemporary meaning, yet
it seemed to me that both the meaning

as well as its

theatrical

projection

was compromis-

ed somewhere due to the excessive literariness of my
words. In the third play I struggled to find the way by

coming to grips directly with the realities of life around
me and exploring a language which was direct and more
addressed to people. But that was again just a stage. For
the last three years I have been more acutely concerned
with the problem of finding a truly contemporary idiom of
words that should belong exclusively to the theatre. Long
passages uttered by the central characters towards the end
of the play, to convey the playwright's meaning some-

where, l abhor. This weakness is discernible not only in
my plays but also in the plays of almost all my contemporaries. In Badal Sircar's Baki It/has it is the ghost of
Sitaram who speaks out the long, emotionally charged

passages towards the end to bring out the playwright's
intent.

In Tendulkar's Shantata it is Miss Benare.

Adhe-Adhure it is Savitri as well as Juneja.

ln

One has to

rely on these long discourses at the end as one has failed
to say the same thing dramatically through the maic body
of the play. All such oratory is not only an overplay of
words but is also to a great extent responsible for creating a prejudice against words in theatre.

My contact with the theatre during the last three or four
years has turned me into something of a cynic. I feel
quite unhapyy both with myself as well as with others.
In my fourth play that is still to be written, I am already
rejecting a lot that comes easy to me because of my erstwhile association with words. I want to travel more and
more towards the language of being rarher than the language of knowing. This may appear quite anti-modern to
some, but I stronly feel that those well-thought-out passages or the pieces of knowledgeable prose are literary
invaders which do not really belong to theatre. If these
excellent pieces with very good meaning are found theat-_

rically effective by some people, it is because of the sheer
personal dynamism of the actor who delivers them. They
are as fake as some of the political speeches one hears
from public platforms much too often.

Maharishi. Do you rule out the intellectual element in
your future plays .7
Rakesh. It is not ruling out the intellectual element.
There is a lot of fragmentation in contemporary poetry and

that has not resulted in diminishing its intellectual content
On the contrary it reveals the intellectual content with
greater intensity, of course by using a different idiom.
Similarly, the fragmented language of theatre has to be
the language of our being which will also reveal by infer-

ence the intellections of our times. No doubt our language has been travelling towards that end. Our language
today is considerably different from what our predecessors
were writing. Yet the change is not absolute, and we
are still using a halfbred literary language which is not

the exclusive language of theatre and is incapable of im-

