parting a complete theatrical experience. Moreover this is
not the language that meets the demands of today s mood
of life.
Maharishi.

What do you exactly mean by the phrase

’today's mood of life' .7
at today’s reality ?
Rakesh.

In other words how do you look

Today's reality is something that is becoming

increasingly complex.

Something

is constantly happen-

ing to us and in our desperate effort to strike an equilibrium with the surroundings we are making constant adjustments.

Everyone of us is

living a

life in fragments.

During the course of one single day one is

forced to play

ten different parts and sometimes more than one version
of each part. What remains constant is one's sense of

being; the idea of a Crisis. It is this that I call today's
mood of life. And it is in this sense that one feels fragmented. Something keeps happening to one, a phenomenon quite difficult to explain; something like an atomic
fission keeps taking place in the landscape of one‘s mind.

One senses it but ' cannot fully articulate the experience.
I think what is occurring in man's mind must find a recurrence in the language of theatre so as to achieve a deep
and instantaneous rapport between
audiences.
Maharishi.

the words and the

What do you think of Brechtian theatre wh-

ere the process of objective thinking and learning becomes
theatrical ?

Rakesh. The charm of theatre like everything else around
us is that it keeps growing. So far as Brecht is concerned, he considerably departed from the theatre which preceded him. This he did to relate his theatre to the forces which stimulated and stirred the lives of people around
him. It is not very relevant to talk of his from and appro-

ach today though it may have been very effective at one
time, that is the post-war period in particular. It was
the way he understood and intellectualized the relationship between man and man and his surroundings. He
made his spectator a detached viewer of a reality which
he considered significant at that time. It was effective
theatre of that time; it is still effective because some of
those things are still relevant for us. But during the last
few years things have changed at an unimaginable pace.

Every morning you get the horrible feeling of being left
behind.

And it is this change and hastened pace of life

which has broaght about a revolution not only in our surroundings but also in our relationship with them. A lot
has happened in just one decade.

What is of prime con-

cern to me today is my constantly breaking and re-establishing a relationship with this fast-changing reality.
Maharishi. I think the fast-changing quality of today's
life. IS meaningful in relation to something which is static,
which refuses to change. This pull and the tesion between the two, to me, is theatrical.

Rakesh. । do not disagree. i know human beings basi~
cally remain human beings, but their attempt to seek adjustments with their surroundings has become a painful
experience today. Since there is constant pull and tensron, hence the need to find an expression for it. The
language which reveals this state of conflict has itself
to
be related to it as its counterpart.

