Maharishi. How for do you think this awareness can
change the theatre .7 Will it merely change its form or
Will It alter the function of the theatre ?

Rakesh.

Well, the form has to change, but I do not think

the function of theatre will change fundamentally. though
it is likely to become more demarcated and distinct. Theatre has to discover its own exclusive identity and this

may to a certain extent affect its function also.
Maharishi.

What is the function of theatre ?

Rakesh. To my mind the function of theatre today is not
just to entertain, nor just to reveal certain ironies and be—
haviour, nor just to phi losophise or serrnonise over certain
socio-political issues. For me the major function of thea-

tre today is to help man to know and discover himself in
relation to his environment. This may not be the exclusive function of theatre alone, but indeed it is one of the
major functions that theatre has always performed and has
to perform more effectively today. And theatre can perform this function rnuch more effectively than literature

can .
Maharishi.

One thing which always bothered me in the

context of Indian theatre is that its appeal is extremely

limited. There are any number of disparities in Indian
society as, for example, of caste, religion, language, intellectual level, not to mention the economic disparities. Can
there be a theatre form which can appeal to the national
conscience, transcending these obvious barriers ?
Rakesh. That will be a great moment of achievement if
this state can be obtained. l storngly feel that this can
be done. The playwright’s words have to operate at a
level where the spectator's senses are attacked in such a

manner that he suddenly starts confronting himself in relation to the faces around him. This is essentially an attempt to cross these obvious barriers. When I speak of
the language of being, I mean a language that can reach
across to the mind which otherwise may not have much
analytical awareness of the pressures casting their weight
on it. I think the sort of function that religion at one time

performed theatre may be able to perform today. But how
and when, it is too premature to say. One does not really know.

(Courtesy, Sangeet Natak)

