A bout th e Department
P O L l C Y

The Department of Indian Theatre provides a practical,
comprehensive method of approach to Theatre, dealing with
both the traditional and experimental aspects of dramatic
presentation.
The student is trained to develop his mind,
body and voice into a total being, aware of his social
surroundings and his relationship with and understanding
of his fellow human beings.

In short the course aims at

the TOTAL DEVELOPMENT of the student’s personality.
C O U R SE
Diploma in Indian Theatre. Duration : One Year (Full Time)
The course provides intensive one year full time training
with emphasis on practical instructions in acting,movement,

voice production, speech, singing, improvisation, theatre
games, yoga, mime, text study, style, character building,
stage makeup, use and control of the imagination, study
of Indian and Western dramatic literature, practical instructions in stage lighting, set and costume designing. The
process of positive and lateral thinking and its application in theatre is an integral part of the work. There
is a special emphasis on the know ledge and creative application of regional theatre forms.
E X H l B | T i O N S

AN D

S E M I N A R S

These will be organised in association with other Departments in the University as inter-disciplinary training is our

primary objective.
PUBLIC

PERFORMANCES

The student shall get an opportunity to participate in
public performances put up by the Department in the
capacity of actor/backstage worker in order to get necessary experience and discipline that a public show entails.
A D M | S S l O N S

The minimum qualification for admission is a degree in
any faculty from a recognized University. Maximum number

of seats is 20. The applicant will have to appear before
an Interview Board headed by the Chairman of the Department of Indian Theatre. The selection will be made on the
basis of the knowledge, genuine interest, experience, per-

sonality and seriousness of approach.
S C H O L A R S H l P S

12 Merit scholarships of Rs. 200/- each per month will be
awarded toitalented students—8 by the University, 2 by
the Government oHaryana and 2 by the Government of
P u nj a b .

g.
§

5

