eye
f’iititm. `111111०201')

I l ll5 's l JN DAY l: Xl 'H l' ए S Nl /\ f. 1५८l T l l

‘.‘/',‘.".‘J 1३.1111८'.1 "क्या r 1 us.

l’t1 n 1'r‘rt ls ll iil i rl t1

E STAG E lS
ALL YOURS
A factory. a warehouse. a basement. a potter's
studio. A range of unconventional venues is
testinga band of playwrights and actors in Delhi
who want to breakthe mould
(Cuﬂﬁl .qcvitcrohrt‘r ('

FFICE HOURS are over arid the
workmen have gone home. A
stretch of factories in ani ndustrial
districtof Delhi. quickly turnsquiet.
On a late evening in March this
year. agroup of well-dressed peoplegan'
a L a
i at. IU
J 1
watch a play. titled Karkliana. about the
lives of employees in anolﬁce. Theguests
wondered I f theywere I n thewrong place.
at the wrong time. Suddenly. thumping
rriusrc began to play.
They followed the mustc into the factory andcame upagainst a billowngblack
curtain Pullirg it astde.theyentered aroom
where people were Sitting atdesks. working away ina repetitive and perfectly syndiromscd choreographyofofl'ice grammar
— papers flying. staplers clicking forceful
stamping and VlOIL‘nT filing. What had
looked like anabandoned factory on the
outside was really a hidden theatre. Kala
Factory is Delhi‘s newest performance
venue and one more name in the city's
growrng list ofeccentric spaces.

Theatre in Delhi has traditionally been
presented at the famous proscenium audi<

toriunis - Kamanr. Little Theatre Group
and Shrr Rant Centre I SRC) … of Mandi
House. a stone's throw from India (late
Venues such as Kala Factory are a long way

off in termsof dbldlkl'. aesthetics and pole
run from Mandi House
“I wanted tothink about the entire city
perient'e for the audience. not Just what

happensafter the third bell. We worked in

the factory for almost two rriortths to get
the details right." says Nikhil Melita. director of Karkhana. a postgraduate in theatre
direction from Columbia University. “I am
now interested in de-centr'alrsrng ideas of
theatre in Delhi. locationally and also With
respect tonarrative andperformance style."
headd; A surprisingly large number of actors anddirectors feels the same way.
Doors arebeing opened to performance
I,
L
‘houses and infactt»
nes. LSD or Learn Something Different is a
potter's studio wrtli l0 walls in different
colours andtextures — grey toyel low to ex
posed bricks Here.Lokeshjam will present
his newsolo titled Muitfliaryo. based on the
autobiography ofDalit wrrter 'l’ulsr Ram.
Bakheda. a warehouse in Sard~ul~Aiaib
insouth Delhi. shutdown two monthsago
but notbefore hosting plays ranging from a
dark tale of abuse called Snag Meat. to
Something from Nothingt a non-linear.
genre~free medley of scenesand convt-1 say
lions by London-based Vacuum Theatre. In

Indirapurarn theatreclown Ashwatli Khan
is building the Humour Factory. an “intimateand dynamic“ space.
And in a tony locality. there is avenue
so secret — It Must Not Be Named. This is
Delhi's most Vibrant underground theatre
address.staging plays by local andvrsrti ng
groups "There writes a penod where a sub
culturedevelops around a kindता space UT
performance. Manyof Delhi's new spaces
wouldn'tpass muster wtth thcautlitinties
as they don't have btsic IJLll iI11७ sur li.\.\
२१भी५७:ज.ति०क्षे८हु1नि०प।नापू:।1९प०१शि९९०ता९९

THE RU \D LBS TAKEN
(Clockwise from top) A scene from Karklranu: actor-director Lokeshjain at LSD: aperformance at Alcshara Theatre
OO 0

crarnpedavorkinga‘la s
far west Delhi. “Studio Saldar is not a 'hall'
in the conventional sense. It IS art lit-between space. whereyou gotoaﬂer your baSIcrehearsals are done. and before you go to
the big auditoria We arethrilled that it is
being used so much and that people who
r 111'
J
म
3३
nliaini.
preusely becauseofthe non—genurﬁed setting weare in.“ says Sudhanva Deshpande.
acrordiiutor ot'Janarrithat operatesStudio
Saldar. From object theatre to puppet the—
atre toclown theatre to solo theatre. Studio
Safdar has attracted a उप्रा"प्र३दृरा०षि of ac—
rivrty and a loyal fol lowrng ofaudiences —
despite not having parking space.
Studio Sal'dar does not charge rent;
1.३1 titi px that use it are expened to pay the

don‘t have to play to the tallerv." says a
well-known playwright
Inthe rush tooccupy the margins. a histonc mainstream hall hasreturned Incentrerstage AltsliaraThcatre lovrnglytralled
from four types 0' wood. has registered a
70 per tent intrease in bookings llLIlll iiidt‘pL‘lltlt‘lif gfuups 11। the last two 1७11५
' We built llll.\ theatre in the '70.\ so that
people who wanted toatlitirve a

t

ex -l|t-nte mulrl finda home \\’ith\‘.t-t-k
end booking requests u tllllllg in tor Iantiar‘.’

maintenance costs. Altshara Theatre hasa
price of around Rs H.000 fora weekend
show. and a weekday scheme in which

groups don't pay a rental but share 50 per
cent at the ticket sales With the hall.
Kainaiii auditorium. a Smseat hall considered Delhi s most elite space. charges Ks
6'10001111 ।१-नि"।हे।0प5रि-१सा१३ज्य 11
८1111-र्द्ध 11111 ५1111 1४ for Rs 32.000. The perks’
The 11111111111 111111 1111111५ cqtiipped with the
1.111'५111'1111111111५11

11'.1111".1५1111~11

already. w.- are rim-ring ५1५ cral iatt-~ [1'11

venues. hoWever. the power lies with 1 he

toutage theatre on net-mus." says l.ll.\l\\l.|
\’aid\-a. actress and 11 H m. 1 ier iii “11' 111111

artiste. A fearless kind of theatre is played
out as there are about BU seats and groups

11 Aksliara Theatre i\ । l0vmiiiiitt- tint r
from Mandi Htrtlse. siiitliu satdtii l\ in .i

.i
lll‘ til.

l' tuned the rise or al. ए1।।९९१'।५.।-प्रनि.।२'
11111111 111५1. independ-

111४11111111111111०1111५111111111।

. *t ५1५111५111५11111५५111८111३1डा111111दु'
। 1 1१७11।। is that ‘tiiitc

।

६1 UP a,
eve
othetaspects open up interms of innovating \Vllh
space and technology. Groups have to get
mventne.‘says Chaudhun.
At a basement venue where Good
Hands,Godspeed. co iripri sI rig two mono—
logues. was performed. Chaudhuri did
awame a फ्लू ५
५
1111 tire
audience. 'Bothactors began to use vorce
and silences in nuancedways They struck
an immediaterelauonship With theaudiv
ence that was seated inches away front
them Withintricate gesturesand eye con»
tact. they gave a layered performance.
especially in the story of grief and loss.“
he says.

on low Steps or (trans — into the :tc-ryline
There are twopillars in the middle oftl'e
space. We turned the pillars :tllo trees in

The Zero Story. a claim play about a family
ofn umbers in which the youngest Zero. is
bullied by theothers l nElt \lui'okat Manta
Se. a solo onthe writer of the Partition. .e
३
eilingto tear?
a scenic allusion to \larito's fondness for
drink.“ says Ehatt.
As artistes mould their stories tonew.
senues. etpenmenraoon is informing their
theatre. In the past few nee
sham
Theaue has hostedPanka‘ T'rwan s abstract
ar

DI PANITA NA

adaptation ०1313 Days in September in

whichthe trauma ofduldhtxid rape luunb’
with red-blue

“An actor should be able to perform tn

.inj. spate." slyilain ln \lntdlillld. theAu
drence wrll sit on bean bags. charm and
chairs as well ason staircases llthey don't
like the performance. thereis much elseto
feast their eyes and minds on. from Pdlnl'
ings propped on Easels to[50's raw ceiling
Jain who has StudiedDalit literatureexten—
sively. red out! thetext unnl the story of
d iscnrtunarionand explor tationresonated
With him 'Onl) tfl am moved emotionally.
Will I Will be able to more my audience An
actor must be like anamoeba. ready to {it
आ०जि३पता४शि1ष्ट्र5ष्टिप्रा८
atn uses a er of three lights because

play by 5 Sorriasundararri about a [lair 1

family during the IDS») nets. and Bunth
by EpicShit Entertainment in v. hith Hindi
abuses become a language of t her r amt
Sorrieurnes. generous rewards can it lr
low a strong txrtortttance. "Groups cannot
charge the audience due to legal restric»
[10er They pass around a भी 111 \s hich papie pay as [hes like. Some put iti ।१धुव्य0 but
there are bugger note-s. too." sits Gnudhun.
But the etenmg‘s collection is uncertain
.ind groups cannot build a budget around
IL Hones-er. the Lids o । ticketing also means
that txvple \\ he cannot aflord a K
or
Rs 500 “€th can 1 nine in tor a plat ‘ '

[50. like main Such senues. has 1111 stage
equipment FVlBh-“Llhttlldllf”:
inmrporatc Studio Saldar’s struc re 7 a

find it balances our iii theend, tistra

tentral on award l.\ hith the audience \ITS

\3\‘ (haudhun

.

