D | R E C T O R ’ 5 NOTE:
I passionately kept performing the play ‘A shaft of Sunlight’ as 'Marma Bhed' up till
1999, a play written by Abhijat Joshi before the demolition of Babri-Masjid - a play
based on the communal conflict touching on its root causes. In the socio political
environment that exists in Gujarat, as a director I felt my own need to respond through
theatre. The conflict situation has worsened in Gujarat and it has been shamed by its
post Godhara response. And now another Gujarati writer, Iqbal Munsh i cariré‘up with a
play on the same issue.
Ahrnedabad serves as the background for both these writers. Marma Bhed presents the
deep rooted bitterness through subtleness while ’Saav Amaari Jaat a lag che’ puts across
the issue more nakedly. Both plays talk about the deep divide between two communities,
harted of one community towards the other, especially of the majority towards the

minority and women of suffering across the communities. The causes of wounds and
suffering are both from their own community as well as from others.
The challenge has been to take this play to a larger audience. The challenge has been to expose people to a different
view point then what has been imposed on them. Both the plays have consciously kept the focus on the attitude and
irresponsible behaviours of the society. in general even if that is the result of deliberate attempts to create disputes in
their day to day life, the direct or indirect accusations, exclusion of a community from all the progress or the very cold
bloodedly fabricated harted and the poisonous intrigues of the politicians.
Saav Amaari Jaat..... has used some of the symbols and rituals which were earlier never a big problem generally
between two different religious communities co exiting and lots of cross cultural adaptation existed as way of life,
such as participating in some of the rituals of Navaratri and Tazia,. It is only now that those same, are very much being

used to differentiate as ’us' and 'them’. One has been careful not to cross the line of religious boundaries by retaining
one’s own identity.
What has appealed to me as a director is the strong note of hope. Encha nci ng the need for a humanitarian perspective.
The writer did not have any title. I found an appropriate title, from a Gazal by one of the eniment poets of Gujarat
Kavi Shree Rajendra Shukla. The title is so true for us - as artists in theatre group as well, who in the times of popular
demand for cheap comedies, dares to put a play that demands a self reflection, at the-box office. The challenge was to
treat the play with the elements of entertainment which would go with the overall environment of the play.
The end was not an easy one. But one of our poet friends Mr. Rudra Rana, wrote a beautiful poem that brings out the
inner self and forward looking vision of the characters, standing at the threshold of a new dawn embracing the hope
of a better future.
"
Deval Mehta’s music and Chika Kharsani's sets gave the needed effective environment.
—
I sincerely hope that plays of this kind will help in a meaningful self reflection in the society and all of us could strive
together for a more peaceful society ..... ..a better world to live in.....
r)

—Rajoo Barot

(Translation 2 Nafisha Barot, Binita Bhatt)

A H M E D A B A D T H E A T R E GROUP
Ahrnedabad Theatre Group (ATG) was born in 1992.

as a result of a strong passion of some of the theatre
professionals who were also looking for a space to give

"eXpressions to their genuine creativity in the field of
theatre. Since then, ATG has grown from a group of
professional theatre artists to independent Vibrant
students’ theatre, ' Tarz—e-Thatter '—a theatre group

that research and perform old and new songs from
p |ays.

