A LAG ZAAT
(स्ला 10111. )
We also perform in Hindi

A h meda bad

After the demolition of Bbari Masjid and post Godhara carnage, this city got a ’new identity’— an 'icon city’ for communal
riots. The play is the story of a man, Diwakar Joshi and his family, who lost his younger brother, following the violence, post
demolition of Babri Masjid. The death of the brother by some ’muslims’ in the communal conflict, has turned Diwakar a
staunch anti rnuslirn. The family, with wife Gayatri, daughters Sanjana and Tini, and mother resides in the locality, where
on the other side of the road rnuslirn community lives. Diwakar’s son, Abhishek works in Dubai and returns from there,
getting married to a rnuslirn girl called Ayesha. Diwakar throws them out the house.

Diwakar's family had lived in Jamnagar before 1 5-17 years. Where they had an intimacy with their neighbour, Bhanubhai
and both the families wished that his daughter Arti and Abhishek to be married.
३
And one fine day, Bhanubhai comes to Diwakar’s family, with daughter’s proposal and learns that Abhishek has married
Ayesha and Diwakar, considers Abhishek dead. Arati, stays back for sometime, becoming part of the families sorrow and
happiness. And one day there is revelation that Arati is Ayesha. Arati is Abhishek’s wife Ayesha.

९

And there is Godhara killing. City is gripped with communal conflict and Diwakar's young daughter, Tini is in the muslirn
community in the house of Suleman. There has been animosity between Diwakar and Suleman, Ayesha goes out of the
house to look for Tini, Abhishek comes home to take care of his family. Suleman saves Tini and brings her home risking his
own life but Ayesha is somewhere outside. . ...and Sulernan leaves the house to face the mob... ..will they be spared by the
mob?
N ow?

This creates a question in the minds of the audience. What could be the responsibility of a staunched hindu family, whose
daughter in law is a rnuslim? Responsibility of protecting any individual is of all.

’By keeping the windows closed, you create a border'. these are the words of the play. And — at last the window of the
house is the symbol of the windOw of one’s own self. After the killings of thousands of people in communal conflict, we
have stopped asking some questions to our selves.

This play brings out some questions - and one question.
Who are we?
I

Like the charaters of this play, who have an answer.
we also have an answer vwe, are a different kind...

