THE LIFE OF MOLIERE
l622

Jean-Baptiste Poquelin, eldest son of Jean Poquelin and Marie Cressé, is baptised on

January 15.
1 637

Jean Poquel in , official upholsterer to the King of France, leaves his business to his son.

1643

Jean-Baptiste links up with an actress, Madeleine Béj art, and forms a theatre company
called Illustre-'I‘héatre. After touring the provinces, the company sinks roots in Paris.

1644

Jean-Baptiste becomes Moliere. The Illustre-Théatre, ravaged by debt, is forced to tour
once again.

1658

Moliere and his troupe return to Paris, become closely identiﬁed with the brother of the
K1ng . A successful show in the King’s presence ensures prominence for Moliere.

1 659

Maiden performance ofLesprécieuses ridicules; a huge success.

1660

Sganarelle makes his first appearance. This role, which recurs frequently in Moliere’s works,

was particularly dear to the playwright-actor.
1662

After the success ofL’e’cole des maris and Les Fcicheux the previous year, Moliere marries
Armande Béjart. Speculation continues to this day about whether Armande was the sister
or the daughter of Madeleine. Moliere premieres L ’Ecole desfemmes — a great triumph.

1 663

Controversy surrounds L’Ecole desfemmes. This prompts Moliére to write Critique de
l ’Ecole desfemmes and L ’Impromptu de Versailles.

1664

Moliere’s first child is born; Louis XIV himself consents to be the child’s godfather. The
child dies soon after. Domestic tragedy does not seem to affect Moliére’s professional
output. It is a year in which hepresents Le mariageforce’; La princesse d’Elide, and the
first three acts of Tartuffe. A ban is imposed on Tartuﬂe.

1 666

Moliere is laid low by illness for over two months. This does not deter him from producing
Le Misanthrope and Le médecin malgre’ lui.

1 667

A second version of Tartuﬂe appears on August 5; it is banned the very next day.

1 668-7 1 Moliere’s most productive period -Amphitryon, George Dandin, L ’Avare, Les amants
magniﬁques, Le bourgeois gentilhomme, Les fourberies de Scapin follow in quick
succession, interspersed with the third and highly successful version of Tartuﬂe.
1672

Madeleine Béj art, Moliere’s muse, passes away. Moliere writes and produces Lesfemmes

savantes .
1673

Le malade imaginaire opens on February 10. At the fourth show of the play, Moliere falls
ill on stage and dies soon after being taken home. The church refuses him burial on
consecrated ground on account of his refusal to give up his calling as an actor. The personal
intervention of the King ﬁnally leads to his burial at St.Joseph cemetery.

