A NOTE ON THE PRODUCTION
uing ﬁgure. Whether we cast him as
Through the ages, the lone wolf has remained a consistently intrig
to the forest, as a railing cynic with little
a prophet standing outside the city, as a hermit who has retired
as a navel-gazing Outsider bursting
use for ﬁner feelings and even less tolerance for human failings,
ents’ that reveal ‘attitude’ , we look upon
with existential angst, or as an inner-city punk making ‘statem

on, tinged, however, with a wary
him with a curious mixture of awe, admiration and even some affecti
suspicion, a fundamental lack of sympathy for such a consistent refusal to belong.
ts everyone else. Misan—
Alceste, Moliere’s rnisanthrope, is no mere ‘hater of mankind’ , who distrus
when we first meet him, we
thropy, in fact, is where Alceste concludes his journey, although even
ble. What is more, he is
know that will be his destination. He is pompous, opinionated and inflexi
.
exasperatingly right. Such a man cannot but cast a bitter, cynical, solitary shadow
perceive as weaknesses.
Fortunately, Alceste redeerns himself in our eyes by what he himself would
that forbidding exterior. More
It is reassuring to know a human and only too fallible heart beats within
the better of his reason.
reassuring still to realise that this insufferable know—all’s passion should get
be so present in him.
And it is simply delightful to see that the very vanity he rails against should
flame which can “purge
Alceste sees himself as a god, no less. His love, he believes, is like a purifying
, “I must be singled
Ce’limene of the vices of our times”. He is positively messianic when he tells Philinte
in my eyes that
out. He who befriends all humanity cannot be my friend.” Or yet, “Men are so odious
I would be offended if they looked upon me as a wise man.”
is uniquel y his own.
In the pantheon of great characters created by Moliére, Alceste has a place that
he lacks the
Unlike Scapin or Sganarelle, he eludes farce and slapstick. Unlike Harpagon or Orgon,
He does not possess
single obsessive characteristic that can be taken to the extremes of caricature.

not an ordinary
the brooding potential for evil of a Dom Juan or a 'I‘artuffe. What is Alceste indeed, if
which he does
defects
man pulled back from the brink of insufferable perfection by ordinary human
not have the good sense to recognize in himself?
a relative
It is the deceptive ‘ordinariness’ of Alceste, perhaps, that led to The Misanthrope being
a minute style of
failure when Moliere first produced the play. An audience accustomed to the laugh
of a contempo—
words
the
in
Sganarelle and Arnolphe, was slow to warm to a man like Alceste who,

rary of Moliere’s, made people “laugh in their souls”.
Yet, in the three hundred years or more since Moliere’s death, The Misanthrope has remained
amongst the most frequently performed of his plays. Enlightenment philosophers like Rousseau have

seen it as a plea for an uncompromising resolve to mould the world to one ’s ideals. Alceste has
variously been portrayed as an Old Testament prophet or an obsessive maniac or an unjustly misunderstood and maligned man of rectitude. Célimene has been seen as anything from a ﬂ ighty creature

of easy virtue to a feminist symbol. These are pointers to an enduring human interest, a lingering
dramatic essence, a continuing ‘relevance’ which we, like generations before us and doubtless several

others to follow, have attempted to explore.

