Bhavabhuti's Uiz‘am Rama Cbmitam
The great war in Lanka is over and Rama has been crowned King in Ayodhya; the palace has, however,

been emptied out, for the queen mothers have gone off to ashram of Rishyasringa to take part in long
sacriﬁcial ritual, and, Janaka has returned home to Videha. Sita, heavy with child, is saddened by all
these departures.
Lakshmana enters, happy to announce that a series of paintings on the Ramayana story, has been
completed. Perhaps they will divert the attention of the melancholy Sita? Thus the same threesome
that had once, long ago, left together for the forest now begins to see the paintings.
Soon, however, the pictures draw the spectators toward the traumatic events of exile, the journey to
the forest, and then the torment of separation. Rama, solicitous of his wife's emotional state, tries to

spare her the worst of these memories. Lakshmama sees that Sita is exhausted and suggests that she
rest. Lakshmama leaves, and Rama and Sita seat themselves within the space of a window—well. Soon

Sita, resting upon Rama's lap asleep. Even as she sleeps restlessly, murmuring in her dreams, Rama
sings a verse of love.

Durmukha, thf: king's spy, has arrived to inform Rama of the state of affairs in the city. After a little
PICdding he reveals the terrible truth that Rama's subjects have not accepted the proof of Sita's
innocence during the course of her nine—month soujourn in Ravana's captivity. Rama is pierced to the
quick, as if by a lightning bolt made of language. Suddenly he is facing a tragic conﬂict : as dharmaic
king, he has , he thinks, no choice but to send Sita away forever; but as a man, a husband and lover, he

knows that she is completely innocent. He takes the decision in a ﬂash, sacriﬁcing her, and his own
happiness; he orders Durmukh to inform Lakshmana that the queen is to be abandoned alone, in the
forest. Rama assumes that this means Sita will die, the prey of wild beasts. Guilt ﬂoods him; in a
second, he says, he has been transformed into a loathsome demon. The world is upside down, emptied
out like a wasteland, and there is no further meaning to his life. He bows, touching the sleeping Sita's
feet with his head, for one last time; he begs to the earth to care for his belyived wife, her daughter.

/
.
Twelve years pass between this moment and the opening of Act Two; Atreya who has left Valmiki's
ashram, where he was studying, largely because the sage has been too busy composing poetrythe
Ramayana. We learn from this conversation that Rama has comn‘ienced an air/32214771651194 sacriﬁce,
performing the ritual with a golden image of Sita, and that Lakshmana's son Chandraketu is following
the sacriﬁcial horse as it roams the world.
Rama, who has gone in search of a Sudra who had the temerity to engage in tapas, has unintentionally
arrived at Panchavati, where, before kidnapping, Rama had lived the unencumbered forest life with
Sita perhaps the happiest moment in all of Rama's experience. The king, still guilty and tormented, is
overcome with longing and grief upon re—encountering the familiar sights and sounds of this idyllic
wilderness. He is in danger: the sites of his former happiness trigger an overwhelming sadness; at
nearly every step he falls or swoons. Having anticipated this eventuality, the river Ganges has brought
Sita to this same spot, also rendering her completely invisible; her task will be to revive the weakened
hero by touch. In a series of intimate confessions, he speaks of his burden of guilt, and of his love for
the wife he wronged; all this is overheard by the hidden Sita. Rama, palpably feeling her touch; sensing
her presence, is both restored and bewildered.

In the next act, a horse appears in the Valmiki's ashram the ritually consecrated horse protected by
Chandraketu, Lakshmana's son. Lava is fascinated at the sight of this animal, and even more so when

