the
he learns the identity of Chandraketu — for he knows of Lakshmana and Rama from Ramayana,
of
fate
the
and
existence
text that Valmiki has composed and taught the twins. When asked about the
that
adds
the children of Rama, Lava could only say : “This is as far as the story is known”. He further
the poet has composed the rest of Rama's story but has so far not published it. Valmiki has however
sent a copy of this concluding section of the Ramayana, to the sage Bharata, who will perform it with
apsaras. So precious is the text that Kusa, Lava's twin, has been sent, armed with bow and arrow, to

protect it from mishap on this journey. Lava and Chandraketu are now set in a collision course.
In the concluding act, a play is about to be performed on the banks of the Ganges Valmiki's
composition, enacted by celestial dancers;_ the whole world has been invited to this drama. Lakshmana
has seen to the seating arrangements; he now takes his place beside Rama. A voice announces from
'36th {he दृहुंदुहुँटुहुँदुत्रु that Sita, about to give birth, has, in despair, cast herself into the river. Rama cries
out from his seat: “My love, stay a mQment”. Lakshmana rebukes him : 'It is only a play'. Now Sita
appears on stage, supported by her mother, the goddi’55 earth, and the Gangas, who tell her that She
has given birth to twins within the river. Sita in the play pleads her mother to EﬂfOld her, forever, in 1161’

depths. As she disappears from the stage, Rama faints : 'You are gone forever, last in another world'.
Lakshmana, alarmed, cried out to Valmiki for help: “so this is the point of your poem”. Rama has
stopped breathing. And suddenly another voice announces, from behind the curtain: 'clear the
orchestra. Valmiki has produced something surpassingly strange'. Now Sita herself is there and
touches Rama. He revives. The husband and wife are re—united. Rama literally comes out of the text
to conclude the drama.

(Edited excerpt from
7796 W’isdorlz of Poem by David Shulman, CUP, 2001)

