Pt. Satyanarayan Kavitratna ५
(Ii/ye Tram/afar)
Ihis production of Utmm Rama/Jamil} not only reminds us of the greatness of the poet
Bhavabhuti, but also of Pt. Satyanarayan Kaviratna who translated this play into Hindi without
compromising the'greatness'of the original. Kaviratna)i died early, at the age of thirty nine. He
was born in 1879 and left for heavenly abode in 1918. But even in this short span of life, he made
his mark in Hindi literature and Indian theatre. He is considered to be the last great poet of
' ijbbar/M. There was a traditon of writing Bbmmargz'z‘a (lyrics of bees) in Hindi Bhakti-Poetry, in
which gopis of Vrindavan send their messages to Krishna through a bee Pt. Satyanarayan
Kaviratna wrote Bbmmam’um, an important collection of Bra/Mamba poetry. Acharya Ramchandra
Shukla appreciates Pt. Kaviratna, as a person totally engrossed in the tradition of Braj. Braj is an
area where Krishna—bhakti became a way of life. In his classic work, History of Hindi literature,
Acharya Shukla wrote about Shri Kaviratna: 'His Brajbhasha was of day to day life. His language
of poetry was not written in traditional language of Brajbhasha poetry but in common man's
language. He used many similes and analoggies, which are part of common man's language.
Apart from that, he was an important poet. Pt. Kaviratna will be remembered as a great translator.
He translated all three works of Bhavabhuti, l71747” Ra/m/Ja/iz‘am Mal/ax? Alad/Jm'aw, and Mal/maﬁa
C/Jam‘am1n Brajbhasa and Hindi together1. e. the proseof Bhavabhuti was translated1nto Hindi
and, poetry Into Bra]bhasha Pt. Kav1ratna had
३ '
" '
'
' 'an amazing command over Sway/a metre in
Hindi. He also used to recite poetry in this
metre (Savaiya) and mesmerize elite as well as
the village folk.
It is not an accidental coincidence that Pt.
Kaviratna translated Bhavabhuti's 5/1/0ng in
swag/a. It is in this form, it is more creative and
practical in terms of rendering it into a
performance. One can realize the beauty of
Brajbhasha poetry and the depth of
Bhavabhuti's poetry in this translation of Pt.
Kaviratna. Because of the 5520525)cm metre, the
musical rendering is smooth in this translated
version of Uttam Rama C/yarz’lam.
Bahvabhuti complained that his talent as a great
writer was not appreciated in his life time. It
was valid complaint. But had there not been a
translator like Pt. Kaviratna, his (Bhavabhuti's)
greatness would not have been appreciated
today in theatre.
But for Kaviratna's
transcreation of this masterpiece of Bhavahuti
into Brajbhasha, the contemporary Hindi
readers and theatre lovers would not have
realised the greatness of Bhavabhuti.
- Ravindra Tripathi

