m दुनु

दृ/ट्य i/L’DS

LT‘l’LE GROUP
"पै

ittle Group is an all India registered
organization with its headquarter in
Delhi. Established in 1997 and registered in
the year 2002 with the motto to strengthen
quality cultural work in India, it has produced
several acclaimed plays and 'aolo
performances such as Godan— written by
Prernchand, Hamjoli—based on the life &
times of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Bambai ke
Footpath par ek Hazar Ratein—written by
renowned ﬁlm maker Kwaja Ahmed Abbas
that showcased in Bharat Rang Mahotsav
2002, Samjhauta—written by Harishankar
Parsai, Chhattariyan written by Mohan
Rakesh and Hanush written by Bhishrn
SahnL
The Little Group has been involved in street
theatre movement to aware people for right
cause. It has done many street plays on
varied subjects like 'AlDS', 'Water Crisis',
‘Environment', 'Yamuna Puriﬁcation', 'Save
Trees' and 'Education' etc. The National
Museum of Natural History (Ministry of

Environment & Forest) had also granted it
street shows on '0“ mate Change' in 2002.
The group also organizes events for other
Organizations and groups by providing
performing artists, trainers as well as
technical experts. It had successfully
organized a day of events for Power-Grid
Corporation of indie Limited (A Govt. of India
Enterprise) in 2003.
To help out underprivileged and deprived
section of the society, the group is regularly
holding workshops in association with
schools, colleges and NGOs in Delhi and
other states. It also aims to impart education
through theatre and media.
The founding and active members of the
group, mainly research scholars, teachers,
journalists, writers, actors, directors with
theatre and media, are making consistent
endeavor to explore the various possibilities
in the ﬁeld of art and culture.

ARNAV ART TRUST
7 ‘ rnavArt Trust was established in 201 1 by
Dr. Abhilash Pillai, Assistant Professor
and has earlier produced a theatre piece To
Kill OR Not To Kill, based on Shakespeare's
Hamlet and Euripides' Media, under the

direction of renowned Uzbeki theatre director
Ovlyakuli Khodjakuli which has traveled a
number of cities i n the country.
द्वि श्या “i a W

तो 8 9

