M

"L

I

WC

हैंर्मीहुँध्य श्या/शात्या
ﬂ hishrn Sahni was born on 8 August 1915
in Rawalpindi. He earned a master‘s
degree in English at Government College in
Lahore, and also attended Khalsa College,
Amritsar. He joined the struggle for Indian
independence, and was jailed for his
participation in the Quit India Movement of
1942. Upon Partition, he and his Punjabi
Hindu family were forced to move to Amritsar.
In the late 19403, he worked with his brother
as a stage performer in Murnbai with the
Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA).
In 1950, he became a lecturer in English at
The Delhi College. From 1957 to 1963, he

lived in Moscow and worked as a translator
from Russian to Hindi, during the period he

into Hindi, including

Tolstoy's Resurrection.
In addition to those
languages, Sahni was
ﬂuent in English, Urdu,

Sanskrit, and Punjabi.
He was general
secretary of the
Progressive Writers
Association, and was the founder and
chairman of 'SAHMAT', an organization
promoting cross-cultural understanding,
founded in memory of the murdered theatre
artist and activist Safdar Hashrni. He wrote
plays like Hanush, Kabira Khada Bazaar
Mein and Madhavi etc.

translated twenty- ﬁve books from Russian

Th e D L V6cto r

HIMANSHU 5. JOSH!
racticing theatre for last 20 years, theatre
activist Himanshu B Joshi has
translated/adapted Salman Rushdie's
‘Midnight's Children’ and Shama Futtehally's
‘Tajmahal’ directed by Abhilash Pillai, written
‘Memsaheb Prithvi’ directed by Rabijita
Gogoi, ‘Haan Mein Geet Bechta Hoon', a play

based on the life and works of renowned poet
Bhawani Prasad Mishra, co-written ‘Clowns &
Clouds’- a conﬂuence of theatre and circus
directed by Abhilash Pillai and written &
directed ‘Ikkiswin Sadi Ki Dadi’ and ‘Mangal
Griha ka Rahasya’ for children. Some of his
directorial works include G. Sankara Pillai's
‘Khoj’, Khwaja Ahmed Abbas' ‘Bombai ke
Footpath Par Ek Hazar Ratei’, Shakespeare's
‘Rorneo & Juliet’ and Bhishrn Sahni's
‘Hanush’. A noted lighting designer,
Himanshu has designed lights for the plays by
many eminent directors & artists such as Kirti
Jain, MK Raina, Tripurari Sharma, Bharti

Shanna, Hema Singh, Bipin Kumar, VK, Savi
Savarkar, Deepan Shivrarnan and Abhilash
Pillai. Designed Abhilash Pillai's Island of

Blood and visited
Japan with it (2004)
and glass house for
Harish Khanna's
'Glass House Project',
he had been technical
coordinator of Bharat
Rang Mahotsava,
German Festival in
India, Poorva (Women

८
: .
अर्थ

Directors' Theatre
Festival), Days of Russian Culture in India
and India shows of Memories of a Legend
produced by Japan Foundation, Tokyo. He
was the Chief Technical Coordinator for Leela
(South Asian Women‘s Theatre Festival) and
Festival Coordinator for International Theatre
Festival of Kerala (ITFoK). A recipient of
Junior and Senior fellowship on theatre from
Govt. of India, Himanshu has been teaching
lighting, play-writing and space designing as
well as providing consultancy services for
constructing auditoriurns across the country.

