DIRECTOR’S News
One of the great prose-masters ofthe contemporary English-speaking theatre,
Arthur Miller, 49, wrote The Crucible in protest against “McCarthyism” .in the
1950’s. (A Congressional Committee had questioned him about Communist
activities. He clashed with the Committee, and carried the quarrel to the highest
courts.)
'
३
But it was not only the rise of McCarthyism that moved Miller. There
was also “something much more weird and mysterious. It was the fact that a
political, objective, knowledgeable campaign from the far Right was capable of
creating not only a terror but a new subjective reality, a veritable mystique which
was gradually assuming even a holy resonance.” The wonder of it all, said Miller?"

was that such a cause, carried forward by such manifestly ridiculous men should
have. been capable of paralysing, thought itself, and. worse, causing to billow such
persuasive clouds of “mysterious.” feelings within people. “Above all horrors,”
Arthur Miller asserted, “I saw accepted the notion that conscience was no longer

a private matter, but one of state administration.”

‘

So Miller turned to America’s past, and, staying close to historical fact
re-created the Salem witch-hunt of 1692. His intention? “To show that the
sin of public terror is that it divests man of conscience, of himself.”

But The Crucible is not an openly political play. The centre of interest is
the moral issue : what happens to a person’s sense of right and wrong, his dignity
as a human being when subjected to enormous pressures? What makes society
close its eyes to obvious injustice and allow itself to be swept away by the emotiobut
nalism of the moment? This issue has not been conﬁned to America alone
issue which can
has occurred often in history, in other places, other times. It is an
a parallel in
recur in the future and exercise men’s minds everywhere. Thereis
his persebegan
Hitler
modern history—the “shutting of eyes” in Germany when

an entire nation.
cution of the Jews. The paralysis that gripped the conscience of
me tragedy.
Miller’s Jewish heritage is the heritage of great and aweso

a ﬁerce, narrative
Miller’s mastery of period dialogue gives The Crucible
whorled in its gleamthrill. In the words of Kenneth Tynan the prose is “gnarled,
.
ing as a stick of polished oak.”

