if“; भी\,

, हैं.'-: 'हँहैर्दठेश्रुच्ची

TH E SALEM

i

wIToI--| -H u N1-

. ,

t

. H _"

८ w .

\ THE Salem Witch Trials, on which Arthur Miller based The Crucible, took
place in the American colony of Massachusetts between March and September,
1692. They form the most famous incident of witch persecution in the history of

V३

Old and New England during the seventeenth century.

३

Twenty women were 'put to death and many others tortured with the consent
of civil authorities and clergy in an attempt to extract confessions of demonaical
I possession. Those women who refused to confess to witchcraft were hung; those
३ who confessed were spared by a specially formed court with a strong Puritan bias.

The atmosphere in which these trials were conducted was one of political uncertainty in a new country and religious fervour in the form of a challenge to Puritanism from Quakers and the Church of England. The writings of a Puritan divine,
Cotton Mather, excited superstition and fear of heresy among many citizens to
such a degree that when two girls in the home of the Reverend Samuel Parris
began to act mysteriously, cries of “Bewitched!” rang forth and the persecutions
began. The girls were accused of being possessed by the devil and empowered

by him to inﬂictharm‘ful spells and to call forth evil spirits. Thenceforth women
out and
whose actions could in any way be considered suspicious were hunted

tried.

३

.

r I,

it became
These hysterical proceedings were ﬁnally halted by the Governor as
ly have
sudden
so
clear: to better minds that such quantities of witches could not
generalized to be
come forth and that the deﬂnitiOn of a witch had become too
ed and asked
repent
trials
witch
meaningful. In 1697 one of the judges in the
husetts
Massac
in 17,11, the
public forgiveness from the f'amiliesyof the victims, and
of these women and paid reparaGeneral Court reversed the verdicts,K against most

the Massachusetts legislature
tions to their survivors. And as late as 1957,
r outbursts offanaticism and
exonerated the remaining witches. To prevent simila

panic; most states have protective laws.

I

" _..

1oAN scUR RI, A

