Thank you from the Social

Welfare Committee
This beneﬁt performance of The Crucible, incidentally its ﬁrst production in
India, which you are supporting, is for the social welfare projects of the Indian
Cooperative Union. '
The welfare projects of ICU ﬁrst began in 1948 in the wake of Partition when
millions of people were displaced and “terror divested the conscience of men”.
Many who had lost all but their Will to live, came into Delhi to ﬁnd refuge in the
most inglorious circumstances. To these the Social Welfare Committee of the
Indian Cooperative Union took succour, hope and a vision of better things.
Centres were set up in different areas in and around Delhi with the ultimate objective of developing in the people served a community consciousness which could
be translated into a cooperative organisation for economic betterment. Medical
aid, child and adult education, family planning programmes, recreation, rehabilitation of the mind—these were some of the speciﬁcs.
‘
Aid for these projects which kept expanding was sought from agencies in
India and abroad—the Central Social Welfare Board, the Indian Conference of
Social Work, and its Delhi branch, the Delhi School of Social Work, the
Indian Adult Education Association, the Delhi Administration, the Ministry
of Health, the Unitarian Service Committee of Canada, CARE, New Zealand’s
CORSO, Associated Country Women of the World, the American Women’s

Club, New Delhi—all these and many others, including individuals who came
1 forward on their own and the members and staff of ICU, joined in help.

But social welfare is a ﬁeld of patient work and unspectacular results. It
is an area of proﬁt only in human terms, not of material returns. Despite generous
help more is needed year after year as the demand for services grows.

Once in the past, the Indian Cooperative Union ventured to seek support
directly from people, rather than organisations mainly, through a beneﬁt performance of The Diary of Anne Frank produced by Theatre Workshop, New Delhi.
In this second direct appeal four years later we have, through the generosity of
g
Bombay’s well-known Theatre Group, in The Crucible another vivid and purifyin
theatrical experience.‘ Your support to this venture is most gratefully received.

l
We hope that you will derive much pleasure and satisfaction from this wonderfu
play.

