INDIAN COOPERATIVE U N IO N
Fifteen Years in Economic and

Social Development
The Indian Cooperative Union is a voluntary non-proﬁt organisation devoted
to economic and social development through cooperation. It was founded by
Shrimati Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and set up in 1948 in the wake of Partition.
In its 15 years of existence it has emerged with a substantial record of public
service.
५
In its initial years it devoted its endeavours especially in the service of dis-_
placed persons. । But gradually its sphere of service included\problems of agricultural development, regeneration of handicrafts and handlooms, social welfare

and research.
7
Apart from the help it may have rendered to speciﬁc communities and cooperatives afﬁliated to it or served by its individual projects, one of the signiﬁcant
features of its work has been the extension of its experience and ideas. In all its
work the Union has always attempted to draw from the people themselves the -

maximum contribution in human and other resources, thus upholding and promoting on the one hand the principle of self-help, and, on the other, preventing an
excessive reliance on Government or other outside aid. Wherever ,it found the
need for outside help inescapable it acted as a spokesman for its member cooperatives and helped to secure the needed resources. For the donor agencies, too
whether governmental or private, it became a useful channel to ensure that the aid
went to the really needy; was in consonance with actual requirements; and ﬁnally
that it was used judiciously to serve its purpose.
D ३
में
The activities of ICU are organised in several divisions:
1. Rural Development Division, consisting of rural cooperative farms,
rural credit prolect, rural extension and credit training programmes;

2. Marketing Division, consisting of the Central Cottage

Industries

Emporium and related departments like Market Research, Design,
Plannlng and Promotion, Display, Production and Handlooms;

3. Member Cooperative Services Division for Consumers, Steel, Industr
ial
Handloom, Handicrafts and Women’s Cooperatives and the Faridabad
Cooperatives.

‘

4. Research Division

5.» Social Welfare Committee, and
6. Publicity and Publications Division.
Policy guidance and direction are available to the organi
sation through the
General Body, the Board of Management and a numbe
r of Advisbry and Policy

Committees set up by the Board. Many of these includ
e nondnernbers of ICU
who otherwise take keen interest in its work and act
as honorary consultants and
advisers.
“Representatives of the different categories of Prima
ry Cooperatives are fully ’
assocrated with the Work of the organisa
tion.

