V. Ramamurthy
Shri V. Ramamurthy was born in 1 93 5 in Bangalore. He

began his Theatre activites in 1952 as an active worker

Indian Universities and at theatre—workshops
conducted by State Akademis and various institutions.

in the amateur theatre movement of the Karnatak

region and formed a theatre group called Kalaniketana,

He has acted in ﬁlms Ondanondu Kaaladalli directed

with his like—minded friends. After graduating from the

by Girish Karnad, Anveshane, directed by
Nagabharana, and a tele—ﬁlm The Assassin directed by

National School of Drma in 1964, specializing in
Direction and obtaining distinction in Stage
Management, he studied Theatre Techniques at the
University of Hawaii and later on Theatre Technology
at the US. Institute for Theatre Technology, New York.

Dick Backarnd from USA.

While in the United States of America, he designed

and range of current practices of stage designing in the
country.

lighting and settings for many stage performances
including those off—Broadway. Since then he has
designed lighting and setting for many productions in
various parts of the country. Among the highly
acclaimed productions for which he has designed
recently was King Lear in Yakshagana Style, directed by

Shri BX. Karanth. He has also assisted touring
companies from abroad such as Paul Taylor Dance
Company and the Performing Group of the United
States of America.

He has worked as Technical Director for Festivals of

India that took place. in USSR, Sweden etc., Festivals of
other Countries in India, such as, Russian Festival,
German Festival, French Festival, etc., under the
auspices of ICCR. Among the directors who have
banked on his talents have been Dr. Ii. Alkazi, B.\’.
Karanth, Girish Karnad, Raiindernath, Prasanna, Mrs.
joy Michael, Richard Schechner, Bob Dey, (LG.

Krishna Swamy, \X'alter D'Souza, Srinivasa Prabhu, (I.
Basavalingaiah, Suresh Anagalli, Raj Bisaria, etc.

He has been a visiting lecturer, teaching lighting and
stage design at the Drama Departments of several

Shri Ramamurthy's work in the art and technique of
lighting for the stage has helped to broaden the depth

Shri Ramamurty was honored with an award for his
lighting—design for Ek Yatra Pavilion at ASIA 72. He

received the Sangeet Natak Akademy Award for Stage
Lighting in 1977 in recognition of his outstanding
contribution in the ﬁeld of theatre and its enrichment.

National School of Drama presents this Memento to
Mr. V. Ramamurthy in recognition of his life long
devotion and excellent contribution to theatre.

