National School of Drama
National School of Drama was established in April 1959 by Sangeet Natak Akademi to meet
the
growing need for developing a National theatre in India. In December 1975, the
School was registered
as an autonomous organization under the aegis of Department of Culture, Govt.
of India. It is fully
financed by the Government.

The School provides a comprehensive 3—year course of training in Dramatic Arts. After the completio
n
of the course, a Diploma in Dramatics which has been recognized as equivalent to MA. Degree
is
awarded to the successful students. To supplement the input of the regular teaching faculty, the School
invites distinguished teachers and theatre directors to impart theoretical as well as practical training to
the students. Occasionally students from foreign countries such as Mauritius, Nepal, Bangladesh,
Nigeria and South Korea are also admitted to the course.
The School has its own performing wing known as the Repertory Company which was formed in 1964.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of more than 120 plays ranging from stylized
musicals to realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to translations and adaptations of foreign
language plays. Eminent directors of national and international repute from within the country and
abroad have worked with the Repertory. Besides Delhi, the Repertory has been giving performances in
major towns of India and abroad.
Sanskaar Rang Toli (Theatre—in—Education Company) is an important unit of the School. The Toli
performs creative, curriculum based and participatory plays especially designed and prepared for
children of different age groups, to create awareness and encourage children to raise questions, make
decisions and to adopt theatrical skills as an alternative. The Toli also organizes Summer Theatre
\Y/orkshops for children in selected schools and also workshops for teachers.
With a view to reach the theatre workers who cannot be benefited by the training programme in the
School and to create awareness all over India about the basics of theatre, the School organizes

workshops in various regions of the country through its Extension Programme. Under this
Programme a large number of theatre workshops have been organized through out the country in
collaboration with Zonal Cultural Centres and local bodies in Hindi and regional languages.
The School has a separate Publication \Wing which regularly publishes books on various aspects of
Theatre Arts, Biographies, Scripts of major plays, theatre criticisms etc. Under this Programme, there
are regular publications on theatre, namely, Theatre India (English) and Rang Prasang (Hindi).
As part of Golden jubilee Celebrations of India's Independence, the School organized the first ever
National Theatre Festival christened Bharat Rang Mahotsav 1999. The Festival brought together
significant works of National level theatre companies from various States. It mirrored Indian theatre in
all its variety and was a big success. Thereafter Bharat Rang Mahotsav has been a regular annual feature
of the School's activities. \‘C’ith every successive Festival, the scope and the participation of the theatre
groups have been made more broad—based to reflect the multifaceted culture of the country.

