Nehru Shatabdi Natya Samaroh:
An Introduction
The Nehru Shatabdi Natya Samaroh organized by the Sangeet
Natak A kademi will present in two weeks of continuous theatre
fifteen plays in different lndian languages in all their diversity of
style and theme. No theatre festival on this scale has been
attempted by the Akademi before. What adds a certain sense of
adventure to the occasion is that the Samaroh is planned as a
retrospective of modern Indian theatre. A theatre retrospective
- is an experiment without precedent.
The festival is named after Pandit Ja wahar/al Nehru, the
architect of modern India and a patron of the arts, whose birth
centenary we celebrate this year. Jawaharlal’s passion for
theatre is well known: innumerable anecdotes are still
recounted in theatre circles — about his intense excitement
over Habib Tanvir’s M itti ki Gad i, for instance, or his
unwillingness to leave Sheila Bhatia ’s H ee r R a nj h a half— way
despite an important commitment.
'
Actually we wanted Sheila Bhatia to restage her H ee r
Ra nj ha in this festival. But in a long letter she regretted her
inability to locate two young ‘saplings’ who would in this age of
changing tempo and values be willing to undergo the rigours of
operatic training. Similar difficulties of putting a new cast
together thwarted Shanta Gandhi’s J as m a 0 d a n . Sombhu Mitra
and E A lkazi were also unable to accept our invitation.
We mention these disappointments right at the outset to
underline how conscious we are of the problems the concept of
a theatre retrospective raises: ls such a thing possible? Can it
represent the past adequately? Is this fare the best that our
theatre has to offer? What is such a retrospective likely to
achieve?
True, there can be no retrospective of the theatre in the
same sense as a retrospective of films. A theatre performance
is not a frozen article that can be unpacked for display, its
content unaffected, in a different situation. But then there is no
reason to understand the term ‘retrospective’ in this particular
sense.
Presented in this Samaroh, for today ’s audience, are some
of the more significant plays written in the last five decades,
interpreted by some of our most gifted directors. We believe the
attempt worth making if only to see how these stalwarts, still
active in theatre, would re-eva/uate their own earlier creations.
Would they in their more mature years find new meanings in the

