Sangeet Natak Akademi
Sangeet Natak Akademi, India’s national academy for music, dance and drama, is the first
national academy of the arts set up in 1952 by the Republic of India. The first President of India,
Dr Rajendra Prasad, inaugurated it on 28 January 1953 at a special function held in the
Parliament House.

Since its inception the Akademi has been functioning as the apex body for the performing
arts in the country, preserving and promoting the vast intangible heritage of India’s diverse
culture expressed in the many forms of music, dance and drama. In furtherance of its objectives,
the Akademi collaborates with the governments and arts academies of the different States and
Territories of the Union of India, as also with major cultural institutions in the country. The
Akademi also establishes and looks after institutions and projects of national importance in the
field of performing arts. It organizes performances of music, dance, and theatre; gives awards in
recognition of individual artistic or scholarly achievement; subsidizes the work of institutions
engaged in teaching, performing or promoting music, dance, or theatre; gives grants-in-aid for

research, documentation, and publishing in the performing arts; organizes and subsidizes
seminars and conferences of subject specialists; documents and records the performing arts for
its audio-visual archive; maintains a reference library and a gallery of musical instruments; and

publishes literature on relevant subjects.
Sangeet Natak Akademi also renders advice and assistance to the Government of India in
the task of formulating and implementing policies and programmes in the field. Additionally,
the Akademi carries a part of the responsibilities of the state for fostering cultural contacts
between various regions in India, and between India and the world.

The Akademi manages two national institutions of dance, the Jawaharlal Nehru Manipur
Dance Academy in Imphal and the Kathak Kendra in New Delhi, as its constituent units. The
Rabindra Rangashala in New Delhi is the third constituent unit of the Akademi. The National
School of Drama in New Delhi was originally yet another constituent unit of the Akademi. In
2007, the Akademi established the Kutiyattam Kendra in Thiruvananthapuram.

Sangeet Natak Akademi is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Culture, and is fully
funded by the Government for implementation of its schemes and programmes.

Officers of the Akademi
Chairman

SHRI RAM NIWAS MIRDHA

Vice—Chg irma n
SHRI KAVALAM NARAYANA PANIKKAR
Financial Adviser

SHRI R. C. MISHRA

Secretary
SHRI JAYANT KASTUAR

