over 25 plays. His plays have been staged at several theatre festivals
organised by Sangeet Natak Akaderni, New Delhi, Kerala Sangeet

ng
Ra
rat
Bha
d,
aba
ned
Ahr
al,
tiv
Fes
e
atr
The
us
or
Ch
i,
em
ad
Ak
Natak

Mahotsav of the National School of Drama, New Delhi, Rajasthan
Sangeet Natak Akademi and also by different zonal cultural centres.
A former Vice Chairman of Rajasthan Sangeet Natak Akaderni,
Arjun Dev Charan is an established Rajasthani poet, playwright and
critic. He has written seventeen plays and has participated in many
seminars at the national level. Some of his published works include
plays like Aaj Ra, Bol Mhari Machhalz' Itto Pan 1', Dharamjudh, Virasat and
Mugtz' Gatha, a book of poems Rirzdhrohi, and a monograph Rawalon Ki
Rammat and Satya Prakash [oshzl He has also translated Mrichhkatz'kam,
Nag Mandal and Caucasian Chalk Circle into Rajasthani.
Arjun Dev Charan has been awarded by Sahitya Academy, New
Delhi; Rajasthani Bhasha Sahitya and Sanskriti Academy and Raj asthan
Sangeet Natak Akademi. Presently, he is the head of the Department
of Rajasthani at Iai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
The Group
Ramrnat is involved in promoting Rajasthani theatre. The group has
staged plays like Bakri, Hayabadana, Khadiya Ka Ghera, Naag Mandal,
Hastinapur, Tatvamasz', [etwa—Ujali, Mugtz' Gatha, Iatra, [ameela and
Kan upriya .
Rarnmat has been participating regularly in major theatre festivals
organized by leading performing arts institutions like the Sangeet Natak
Akaderni, New Delhi; Bharat Bhawan, Bhopal; Kerala Sangeet Natak
Akaderni; National Shool of Drama, New Delhi; Ban Theatre Festival

of Assam; and different zonal cultural centres.
Cast

Arnangal Chhaya: Deepak Bhatnagar
Radha: Mahuaa

Sakhian: Ankita Parakh, R. Sambhavi, Ela Charan, Savita Choudhary,
Ritula Chouhan
Sainik: Mahesh Mathur, Ashok Gehlot, Ashish Charan, Gaurishankar,
Sudhir Harsh

Guru: Ashok Vyas, Arun Bahura

Credits

Singer: Rajendra Vaishnav
Rhythm: Iairaj Purohit, Ashok Bichhu

Light: Mohd. Safi

Dance: Mahuaa
Set: Arun Bahura. Sudhir Harsh

Stage Management: Sushil Purohit, Ramji Vyas

