Director's Note
I accidentally chanced upon the internet blog Baghdad Burning by
Riverbend. It was difficult to stop reading it once I had started. I thought
I had made a great discovery, till whoever I spoke to seemed to know
about it. This was exciting! One person decides to give an inside picture
of the events in her besieged and war—ravaged country, and succeeds in
reaching out with her version of the story that is at complete variance
with what the compliant media has been telling us. She has managed
to create an alternative to the facts that are usually communicated to
the world. And now millions of people know this story as well.
Her story has resonances that touch people of many countries
— primarily those who have been victims of US military prowess, of
fundamentalists and terrorists let loose by it, and also those where

governments unleash terror on their own people through their armed
forces.
She tells the story with such wit and humour that it becomes all
the more thought-provoking. Not for a moment does she indulge in a
tone of self-pity. I was so attracted and moved by her narrative that I
felt I had to do this as a play.
The structuring and the selection of material proved to be a difficult
task. It seemed impossible to leave out any episode and any comment.
Every issue that she raised seemed significant and each part of her
experience important.
I guess this itself decided the structure of the play. It became clear
that since her blog was all about sharing her life and views, like one
does in a diary, almost all our scenes would highlight an issue or
an experience, and would therefore not allow for any kind of linear

progression. But there were other issues related to structuring. How
does one look at the concept of identity in a web blog? How does one
translate the tongue-in-cheek and ironic slant of her writing into a
theatrical form that would match such writing? How does one prevent
her voice becoming a definitive voice, etc. ?
So we started with some of these questions or challenges in mind.
And as we worked together, we could find solutions to only some of
them. The play as it has emerged is totally an ensemble work between
the actors, the script writer and the director over a period of about 45
days. There is so much more that we all wanted to incorporate but had
to leave out, due to shortage of time and performers. As it is, each actor
is doing more than two or three roles in the play.

The Director
An NSD (National School of Drama) alumnus, Kirti Iain has been a

part of the theatre community for many years. She has acted in and
directed several plays with theatre groups and students of drama

