across the globe. Under the Cultural Exchange Programme, she has
conducted theatre workshops in India and abroad. She has been a
faculty member at the NSD since 1977, and headed the institute from
1988 to 1995. During this period she started the Theatre-In-Education

Company, the documentation and publication programmes and the
Regional Research Centre of the School.
Apart from the NSD, Kirti Jain has been associated with
Doordarshan where she has produced plays and documentaries.
She has been the Project Director of major theatre events like Poorva,
The Asian Women Director’s Festival and Conference and the Asian
Workshop on Documentation of Theatre. She is also a Trustee with the
Natarang Pratishthan Theatre Resource Centre. She has contributed to
various theatre journals and cornpendiums like The Oxford Companion
to Theatre. She also writes a regular column on theatre in the Business
Standard.
Some of the important plays she has directed include, Lehron ke

Rajhans by Mohan Rakesh, Holi by Mahesh Elkunchwar, Subarnalata
based on Ashapurna Debi’s novel, Au r Kitne Tukre based on the Partition,
Tinka Tinka on the Gujarat earthquake, Kaun Thagwa Nagaria Lootal Ho,
a play about globalization, based on a story by Kashinath Singh, and
Sub Kuchch Chakachak, a play for young people, about displacement of
the marginalised in a developing world.
The Group

Aaranjan is a Delhi-based theatre group, formed in 2001, to provide
thought—provoking theatre with high professional standards. The
director of the group has been actively engaged in theatre for the last
20 years, producing plays at National School of Drama, Bhartendu
Natya Akademi, Lucknow, Dartington College of Arts, UK, and with

other local theatre groups.
The group made its debut with the play, Aur Kitne Tukde written
by B. Gauri based on the much dicussed book The Other Side of Silence
by Urvashi Butalia. The play was premiered at the National Theatre
Festival organised by National School of Drama. It was hailed for
its topicality, imaginative production and excellent performances.
The play has subsequently been performed at the Indian Academy
of Administration, Mussoorie; and at the theatre festivals organised

by Sangeet Natak Akaderni in Delhi, North Zone Cultural Centre in
Chandigarh, IPTA in Murnbai, Ganakrishti in Kolkata, and at the annual

festival of Sahitya Kala Parishad, New Delhi. The play has also been
performed at an international festival in Lahore, Pakistan.

