damage done to the farmers’ land. Farmers should become self-reliant
by following the traditional style of farming, and, that too, without
fertilizers and pesticides. Then, there will be no need for a farmer to
commit suicide!

Director’s Note
It has been an interesting experience for me to work with folk artists,
non-artists and interested social workers as a theatre team. This kind
of participatory theatre empowers all the participants to be confident.
Since its inception 15 years ago, Natya Chetana has been including
indigenous folk elements in all its productions. The present play has a
symbolic setting of bamboo sticks. Creative fusion of folk elements like
musical instruments, dance movement and properties are important

features of the play. Use of ’chorus’ in establishing different scenes is
also an inspiration from our folk theatre forms. No electronic gazettes
or recorded elements are used for musical support or as sound effects.
It adopts the strength of Indian theatre elements like story, drama,
acting, dance, music, song and symbolic settings.
The Director

Subodh Pattnaik, 42, is a graduate in Drama, and is the founder of

Natya Chetana in 1986. He has written and directed about 20 long and
८…३ 35 short plays, and has developed a theatre style and a module called,
५ * . Intimate Theatre (long plays for urban audience) and Cyco Theatre
" (short Plays for village audienCE, theatre Carried 01‘ biCYC
lesl' His plays
have been staged in several important theatre festivals in the country,
like in National School of Drama’s Bharat Rang Mahotsav, Sangeet
Natak Akaderni's Golden Jubilee Celebrations, and the Nandikar

Festival in Kolkata.
Subodh Pattnaik has taken Oriya theatre to Europe, Australia, Hong
Kong, Nepal, Sri Lanka, USA and other countries. He has directed

a multinational play, Blue Gold in Belgium, which was played in 43
cities of Europe. Recently, he was in Hong Kong to co-produce with
an Indo-French team for World Congress of Drama and Education
2007. He has been associated with IDEA (International Drama and

Education Association) in different capacities from 1998 to 2004. Several
students from different countries have been seeking his guidance for
their technical degree courses.
The Group
Natya Chetana was established in 1986. In the last 20 years, Natya

Chetana has produced and performed 22 long plays in urban areas,
and 41 short plays on bicycle expeditions, once crossing 700 kilometres
to put up 70 shows of a play. The group has performed in state and

