to render deep feelings and emotions, while keeping intact the external
form of narrating with music and rhythm. Magic had to be created
from structured verse.
The seniors and the juniors alike in the Nandikar family have
put in their maximum creative and physical efforts. I am thrilled
and proud of their endeavour and commitment. We have together
striven to narrate a tale, a tale of love and life, a tale of regeneration

and existence.

The Director
Goutam Halder is a leading trainer in various projects of Nandikar.
He has been a leading actor in Nandikar productions since 1988.
He has directed and acted in several plays including Ek Theke Baaro,
Nagar Keertan, Meghnad Badh Kabya, Kabye Gaarze (a theatrical-musical
presentation based on a body of poetry from Rabindranath Tagore’s
to Jai Goswami’s), Sojon Badiyar Ghat, Barda (a monolgue by Munshi
Premchand), Dulia, Andharmoni, Bappaditya, Chokh Gyalo, and Patalbabu
Filmstar. He has also directed Brecht’s Mother Courage, Akhtarujjaman
Iliyas’s Chile Kothar Sepaz', and Iashimuddin’s Nakshz' Kanthar Maath.
Goutam Halder is a Senior Fellow with the Department of Culture,

Government of India. He received the West Bengal State Award for
Best Production for Meghnad Badh Kabya, and the Aditya Vikram Birla
Kala Kiran Award by Government of Maharashtra. He has visited,

participated, conducted theatre workshops and performed in several
European countries including the London International Festival of
Theatre, International Fringe Theatre Festival, Goteborg International
Dance and Theatre Festival, University of Georgia, Athens, Chicago
Banga Mela, and Swedish International Theatre Festival.

The Group

Nandikar was established in 1960. Over the years it has made rapid
strides and is now acclaimed as a nationally important theatre
organization.
Nandikar has produced about 75 plays and performed more than
7000 nights all over India and abroad. Nandikar presented plays,
conducted workshops and dialogues in Bangladesh, Scotland, England,
USA, Canada, Germany, Poland, Russia, Sweden and Norway.

Nandikar also catalyzed about 36 youth theatre productions and
95 Children’s theatre productions. It has organized 23 national theatre
festivals with national and occasional international participation. Youth
and children had their space, too. Two national women’s theatre

festivals, 10 youth theatre festivals and about 20 children’s theatre
festivals at regional level were also organized by Nandikar.

