The Director
in
on
ati
liz
cia
spe
th
wi
a
am
Dr
of
ol
ho
Sc
al
on
ti
Na
the
A graduate from
direction, C. Basavalingaiah is also a music director and a designer. He
has been associated with various universities’ academic committees and

has served as a member of Karnataka Nataka Academy. He worked as
Chief of Government of Karnataka’s Rangayana Repertory and served
as director from 1996-2001.
His pioneering plays include Madari Madayya, KasarnaBaale,
Gandhi v/s Gandhi, Dreams of Tipu Sultan, Shoodra Tapasvi, Dharrnapariya
Balapada Vratta, Agn i matta Male, Gandhi-Ambedkar, langarnadedege and

Antigone, which have been staged in major national theatre festivals
including Bharat Ranga Mahotsava, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Nandikar
Theatre festival, PDA National Festival Pune, Velvi NTF Tamil Nadu,
West Zone Cultural Centre Theatre Festival in Goa, and the National

Theatre Festival in Thiruvananthapuram. Basu’s other plays directed
by him include The Road, Sankrati, Dyavanooru, Pagala Raja, Samba Shiva
Prahasana, Chalk Circle, Macbeth, Tipu Sultan and many street plays.

C. Basavalingaiah is also an author, drama critic and an authority
on the narrative theatre. He has initiated child-centered experiment
of inculcating artistic taste and sensitization at Rangayana since 1997
leading to Chinnara Mela which triggered the participation of over 5000
young children. He is the force behind Samudya Cultural Movement,
Bharat Ina Vigyan Iatha — a national popular science mission. In 2002,
he formed a theatre group, Ianasamskruti, a semi-repertory group, and
produced many contemporary plays.
C. Basavalingaiah has received many awards including the
Government of Karnataka’s Nataka Academy Fellowship and the
Karnataka State Award ( Rajyotsava Award).
The Group
Ranga Bharati is Ranga Yatre Repertory’s mother institute, established
in 1946 by a full-time theatre lover, M.P. Prakash. He has written

numerous plays and translated many plays to Kannada including Utpal
Dutt’s Bengali play, Surya Shikari.
Ranga Bharati has produced many full-length plays and short plays
during its journey of five decades. Besides staging of plays, Ranga
Bharati has also organized a number of theatre workshops for rural
artists and theatre festivals like Ranga Vasntotsava, Ranga Chitrotsva,
and Ranga Mallige Natakotsva.
Ranga Yatre, Ranga Bharati’s professional theatre repertory
company working at Hoovina Hadagali in Bellary district of Karnataka
was established in 2006. The Ranga Yatre has a young ensemble of
24 artists belonging to different parts of the state. Ranga Bharati also

