Director’s Note

Through Harschamzar Ki Ladai, an attempt has been made to use

powerful folk form of Northern India, the Nautanki, in modern themes
with contemporary relevance. Its objective is to bring urban audience
to theatre halls to witness Nautanki which lately has lost its glamour
and charm and is struggling for its survival.

The play depicts the pain and conﬂict of an actor. In Nautankis’ a
character portrays the same role for years together. Haria has grown
old playing Raja Harishchandra for many years. The practical aspects
of his life take a dialectical shape with Raja Harishchandra’s ideals.
Haria finds himself entangled between the reality of his life and the
illusion of Raja Harishchandra. But what is true? Life or Character?‘
The play’s central theme shows the unfathomable gap between the
common man’s life and the myth of Satyavadi Raja Harishchandra.
On the one hand, the play looks to negate the Truth in front of today’s
materialistic society, on the other, it invokes the audience to raise their
voice against lies, greed, sin, corruption and injustice.
Can an actor playing Ram, Sikandar, Othello or any other character

shed his own identity? Can Myth dominate the Life? Are Myth and Faith
larger than Life? Can we derive that an actor portraying a particular
character is completely ’less’ from his own natural character? Every
evening master Haria transforms in to Raja Harishchandra, speaks
truth, suffers a lot, but at the end, God appears and solves his problems.

But what about Master Haria? He is neither a king nor can he afford
to speak the truth in his day to day life. God never comes to end his
agonies -—— God himself is a Myth!
The Director
1 Urmil Kumar Thapliyal, born in 1943 in Uttarakhand has done his PhD

। in Dilectical Theatre. He is one of the founder members of Darpan,
Lucknow. He is a known writer, director and actor for five decades. His

play Harishchamzar Ki Kadaz' was selected for the national festival under
३ य the Sangeet Natak Akademi’s scheme of Promotion of Young Directors

in 1984. He has directed and acted in over 80 plays. He has done special
work on contemporary relevance of Nautanki and other folk forms of
Northern India and made popular the ’Nagri Nautanki’ .
Urmil Kumar Thapliyal is a former member of the selection /
programme committees of the National School of Drama, New Delhi,
Bhartendu Natya Academy, Lucknow, North Central Zone Cultural
Centre, Allahabad, and the Department of Culture, Government of
Uttar Pradesh. He has conducted several theatre workshops and has
contributed as a faculty member of Young Theatre Workers and Artists
Workshop, organized by Sangeet Natak Academy, New Delhi. He has

