old Gujarati theatre and post-modernism, throws many challenges of
one's grip over his craft and his capabilities to define, in unravelling
the play. Through this play I have attempted to reach the initiated and
the uninitiated in theatre in a simplistic way.

The Director
Panisai Shesadri Chari has been contributing to the field of theatre since
1985 in various capacities as an actor, director, educator and visiting
faculty. He has directed several plays and participated in the festivals
at the national level. He has been a member of jury and observer for
various theater festivals. He is a member of the Gujarat Sangeet Natak

Academy.

He has also participated in international theatre festivals in USA,
Canada and United kingdom and has conducted theatre workshops,

delivered lectures and presented plays. He has also conducted a
children theatre workshop at West Palm Beach, Florida.

He has presented two research papers at the Faculty of Performing
Arts, M S University, Baroda on the problems of architecture in modern
India and revival of Bhavai (folk theatre form of Gujarat) techniques
for contemporary audiences.
He has received junior fellowship from the Human Resources
Department, Government of India. He also received Gaurav Purashkar
for contribution to the Experimental Gujarati Theatre in 2007 by the
Gujarat Sangeet Natak Akademi.
The Group
Triveni is a cultural organization providing platform to performing
artists, both to novice and notable, the experienced and the eligible in all
the three streams be it dance, music or theatre. Presenting meaningful
theatre to the residents of Vadodara and Gujarat has been its hallmark.
Many notable theatre productions of Triveni have widely travelled
within the country and abroad. Triveni has been organizing theatre
festivals, seminars, World Theatre Day, Garba Mohatsav, folk dance
destivals, and rejuvenating the cultural activities of Vadodara for the

past 50 years.
Cast

Makanji: Dr Mahesh Champaklal
Director/Nayak: Akhilesh Nanavati
Urfe: Dr Bhanuprasad Upadhyay
Wife: Alka Doshi
Hukamchand/voice: Ajay Vyas
Daughter: Shruti Vyas
Radhi: Malvika Telang

