status of their father and they become Jogtya or Iogtini! This ensures
the continuity of Jogtya community, but of what purpose.
Act I. Jagan is the daughter of Yellu, a Jogtin. Having studied up
to the eighth standard, Jagan, like any normal girl, dreams of passing

the Higher Secondary and then becoming a nurse or a teacher. But
Parsu, the eunuch guru, is not happy that Yellu is encouraging Jagan to
study while due to old age they (Yellu and Parsu) are unable to attract
the villagers to donate Jogva and they have to struggle for their daily
meals. Meanwhile, Jagan stands second in the half yearly examinations
and is in need of some money for the school expenses. Parsu agrees
to give her the money only if she accompanies them for Jogva. Jagan,
thus, starts going with them.
Every hungry eye in the village watches Iagan. Iagan gets
emotionally involved with Iayanta, an upper class boy, who promises
her to help in her further studies by employing her in his farm. Jayanta
takes advantage of the situation, deceives her and marries a girl of his
father’s choice. Jagan is frustrated and agrees to become a Jogtin.
Act II. Jagan, the Jogtin is born after numerous rituals. The dream

of becoming a nurse is shattered. The same night Parsu engineers a
gang rape of Jagan and Yellu in exchange of money. Jagan is shattered
internally and externally. She comes to her village and tries to live as
a Jogtin, but is ignored by the villagers.
In the course of time, she enters into a Zulwa relationship with
Krishna, a divorcee from the same village, who had stopped her from
committing suicide. Krishna also takes advantage of her and . . .
Nature too plays its role and Jagan attains motherhood. She gives
birth to a daughter, but her breasts go dry. The infant is hungry and
sick. Yellu feels that Jagan should surrender totally to the power of
Yellama so as to recover and be able to feed her child. On the other
hand, Jagan feels that her natural fountains have dried up because she
has surrendered too much.
One rainy day while Jagan is in an agitated state she throws all the
idols into a river. Yellu tries to stop her but she fails, and she throws
herself into the river. Within a few moments Yellu and the idols
disappear.
Jagan feels as if the pressure of ambiguous symbols and the system,
which valourizes those symbols, has been removed and now
she can

be her free and natural self.

Director’s Note
Zulwa was my first directorial venture in Marathi in 1987, as part of
the scheme for Assistance to Young Theatre Directors, instituted

Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi.

by the

