Based on the life experiences of the Jogte community of Maharashtra,
the play questions the power and compulsion of "Tradition. The
manifestations of a caste-ridden society are not only complex, but
also oppressive. Denial of. the very basic requirements of survival not
only hampers growth, but also destroys dreams, aspirations and often
the very ﬂow of life. The preservation of tradition may endanger life
— hence the demolition of the former becomes necessary to restore even
a semblance of balance and humaneness. The events are dense and the
protest of Jagan intense, but it marks the beginning of awareness; of
attempting to take control of one's destiny. The form and ﬂavour that
fills the performance is born of the ethos and environment from which
the characters and the story have emerged. Not only devices, they are
facets of the life of the characters and often their predicament.
Today, even after having performed it for over two hundred times,
there is a surprising spirit of improvisation that surfaces on its own.
The play has been presented at different places at the state and national
levels.
The Director
A graduate in Arts (1978) with a one-year proficiency certificate
course in Drarnatics (1979) from the Dr Babasaheb Arnbedkar

Marathwada University, Aurangabad, Waman Kendre completed his
post-graduation in Dramatic Arts from the National School of Drama
(NSD), Delhi in 1982. Then he devoted two years to practice-oriented

research on the folk theatre of Kerala under an NSD Fellowship (19821984). Later, he worked with the Theatre Development Centre of the
National Centre for Performing Arts, Murnbai, as a Resarch Associate

for more than nine years.
Waman Kendre has conducted over 150 workshops throughout the
country and has been imparting theatre training to professionals and
amateurs for the last 20 years. He has many productions to his credit.
Iaaneman, Rarzangan, Tee Phularani, Zulwa, Ladi Nazariya, Naatz'gotz', Tempt
Me Not, Gadhe Ki Barat, Ek Zuij Waryashi, Raahile Door Ghar Maazhe,
Teen Paisyacha Tamasha, Dusra Saamna, Saiyyn Bhaye Kotwal, Char Diwas
Premache and Madhyam Vyayog are among his major productions.
Waman Kendre has been the recipient of many awards, including
the Maharashtra Rajya Puraskar, Natya Gaurav Puraskar, and the
Manohar Singh Smriti Puraskar, 2004, instituted by NSD, Delhi and
the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. For the last four years,
he is working as Director of The Academy of Theatre Arts, University
of Murnbai.

