W >>»»»»»»»»»»»»»» »»>»»»»»»

Novelist’s Note
In the novel. I attempt to hold a balance between the unbridled sovereignty of
the elemental human love and the equally unbridled hypocrisies prevailing amidst

us. I take no side. The oddities and angularities of both the sides are exposed
kftrougit exaggerations almost bordering on the farcical. There is perhaps no moral
Eigesson to be drawn. But I mm the novel makes certain revelations about the

‘kind of creatures we human beings are.
Ranjit Kapoor‘s stage version is a daring attempt. and yet surprisingly a very
commendable one. With his imaginative use of some dramatic and some cinematographic devices he has turned the often monotonous monologues of the
original novel into hilarious sequences effectively projecting the interiors of the
characters.

Frankly. until । saw some of the rehearsals of the stage version. I was not aware
of the novel's so rich dramatic potentialities.

-Akhileshwar Jha
Director’s

Note

The dramatization of this novel was an entirely new experience for me. In
BEGUM KA TAKIA and MUKHYA MANTRI there were continuous situations
which afforded good possibilities for dialogue. action—rection and offence and
counter offence. In this novel. THE JANPATH KISS. there is a dearth of such
elements as are necessary for the stage version. The characters do not speak
about the main event; they only reflect on it. To give words to these reflections
and rurnlnations and. further. to turn them into a play was a pretty difficult task.
But at the same time. it was also challenging. This novel underlines the paradox
of the hollowness of moral values in our contemporary society. and it was this
paradox which inSpired and compelled me to write the stage version. In this

effort. I have taken some liberties. Whether they are right or wrong, only the
audience can decide. But for the courage. confidence and affection with which

Akhileshwarji entrusted his novel to me. I am grateful to him.

— Ranjit Kapoor
रे)9रैरैरेंमैंदैरै)दैरेरैरैरैमैंरैरैरैटैरैरैरैरैरेकैरेंठेरैदैरेंदैरेरेंमैंक्केरैमैंदैदैरेंरैमैंरैरैंमैंरै ))))’))))>>)>)‘>) ) >3 )3

