theatre For Social (ha nge

४3३ ब्धतीहृ सिक्वमी तै- स्तिर्द्धप्त Him "सिंह
ठेती डी दंता तली तै . सीटे ही संता तरी ठे ।

Manch Rangrnanch was founded in Sep | 99 l by Kewal Dhaliwal. Since its inception, it has been working to uproot
social evils in order to bring social awareness. Manch Rangrnanch is a cultural organisation and a resource centre for the budding
artists of the society. This organisation is working—to practice and promote cultural and artistic activities with social commitment.
Supporting people’s movement towards a self-reliant society with theatrical activities.
० To promote quality theatre in Punjab by blending traditional theatre forms with modern techniques and provide entertainment

which has a social relevance.
० Manch-Rangrnanch is one of the most creative happening place in Northern India. A Place
which does not only have the required infrastructure but also the capacity and skilled human
resource to host both National and International theatre events.
० Manch—Rangrnanch is a Model Institution, a capable organisation which could bring the real
change in the social, cultural and intellectual | ife of the region.
० Manch-Rangrnanch is the most preferred destination of the artists, writers and intellectuals
where creative exchanges take place. It is a perfect place for intellectual and artistic
stimulation.
० Manch-Rangrnanch is a platfbrm which offers immense opportunities for artistic
collaborations, research, experimentation and creative expression.
० Manch-Rangrnanch a dream world for children-a space for their creative outlet and artistic
growth.
० Active in and committed to the cause of Punjabi Theatre for almost two decades now,
Manch Rangrnanch, Amritsar is one of the most prominent theatre groups in Punjab and has
about forty artists afﬁliated with it.
० Manch Rangrnanch was founded with a programme to work for the development of Punjabi
Theatre making it relevant to the lives of our people and their aspirations. Having born at a
time when Punjab was passing through a crisis-ridden situation of terrorism, Manch
Rangrnanch took theatre into its interior regions with a message of brotherhood, peace and फै .
democratic ideas. Apart from its dramatic production, the group also organizes regular
workshops on various aspects of theatre. It has focused especially on the training of children
in these workshops. The group has, so far staged about | 50 different plays and performed
more than I 800 shows both in India and foreign countries like Canada, England, Germany,
Bangladesh, Pakistan and U .S.A. , Norway.
० Manch- Rangrnanch, having more than I50 productions to its credit, has estrablished new
milestones in Punjabi Theatre by presenting on stage the works of Punjabi poets and
novelists and also plays depicting significant historical epics. The Manch gives more than I 00
performances each year. Following are the highlights:
० Publication of Plays ० Script Bank ० Sern i nar on Theatre
० Face to Face with theatre personalities
० Group has a video wing called Manch—Rangrnanch Productions
० Group has a Rangrnanch Bhawan for official work and rehearsal space.
० Manch Rangrnanch Amritsar organises Sukhdev Preet Memorial Theatre Festival.
० Manch Rangrnanch Amritsar every year organises month long production oriented
theatre workshop at Asr for young theatre workers in collaboration with National School
of Drama, and Manch Rangrnanch organises ten days National Theatre Festival every year.
० Manch Rangrnanch presented Life Time Achievement Awards to Theatre personalities.
० Manch Rangrnanch organised so many Theatre Seminars
० Manch Rangrnanch published so many Books of Punjabi Plays
० Manch Rangrnanch has a Script Ban k of about 2000 plays

Rangmancll Bhawan

है

