मड से"- धउतठ'ब हैत गाँव हँसी तै, ने मड बुरु ea? तैडे की ठंडी जैव हुँटी तै
Writer :

Dr. Sawrajbir

Dharam Guru यउमद्वाट्ट

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

Swarajbi r has transformed the theme of his drama "Dharam
G u ru " according to the very basis of Raj Kumar SatyawarT story of
the play.
According to the history of drama, this drama is made a
curious blend of antiquity and new style or rnodren pattern of
drama with slow degree.
In this drama, the followers of Vishlshait Guru, the poems and
songs of the hunger stricken folk presented a novel aspect of the
drama. Dharam Guru has been provided a boarder outlook in the
ﬁeld of drama. Its various aspects and styles are blended in such a
way, they form a unitary shape. Its multifarious blended styles unity
makes 'Dhararn Guru' 3 drama of new origin and of modern pattern
in the ﬁeld of drama.
Writer :

Dr. Sawrajbir

Med h 11111 म्नयठी

Directed by :

Kewal Dhaiiwal

The conﬂict of Medhani drama revolves round the murder and suicide. Murder and

suicide are different types of social patterns having different social attitudes. In both the cases, the
common concept is that the I ife of human being remains no more in this universe.

Contemporary society, political, financial and psychological attitude and other atmosphere of the
ruling party are eually responsible for this crime of murder and suicide. From this new point
suicide is more crirneful than murder because the conscience of human-being is assassinated
before physical death . .
We can not save our skin only by saying that this is not the murder but it is a suicide, the
contemporary society as well as the event is fully responsible for it. Suicide his more complexity of
conflicts. The herine of Medhani having nUmerous such types of questions have stood up before

^ us.

Writer:
Dr. Sawrajbir

I .
हैं .
mama DI Raat

७
T
1
I'lme खी त उ

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaiiwal

MASIA DI RAAT is a Dramatic Rendition of the paid of those
mothers who are made to murder their daughters in their wornbs
infact the desire to have a sone has now become a cause for the killing
of scores daughters. This drama is the story of the unfulfilled desires
and of the narrow bounds of our society. Dr. Swarajbir has again
creatively used poetry and other dramatic techniques in order to
communicate the meaning of this play. Through this drama Dr.
Swarjbir has come out against the rotton traditions of our society; He
has tried to serve a healing touch to the pains afﬁliating our daughters.
The play while stirizing the ways of our society reaches its own,
unexpected climatic situation. If the society gives birth to an inhuman
an unbearable condition, then the woman can take scythe in her
hands to annihilate the same condition. This play is a challenge and a
call to ﬁght the evils of our society.

