मड दें ध्रउठठ'ब jet तै हुत'डे autism? er Ha war, ठ' सैट' उठय उ' मड मतिट बत ऩष्टा
Kallar

बेरूत

Directe Kewal Dhaliwal

…

The crisis in which the peasant of Punjab finds himself today and the orientation of the youth to settle abroad by whatever
means pose a grim question for the future of our state. In his new play, Dr. Swarajbir, has in fact touched upon this painful aspect of the
contemporary Punjab.
The story of this drama is a story of every village and every town, It
is the story of the illegal migrants living a pitiable and miserable existence in
foreign countries. Kallar is an attempt at raising the essential questions
whether we should confront the crisis-ridden conditions of lives here in our
own land or escape shamefacedly to other countries. For how long can we
live with honour and dignity if we continue to turn our back to our native
land which has provided us with everything in our lives. The process of
turning our back from our own land is, in reality, a process of making our
fertile land barren. It is not the land which becomes barren sometimes, the

human beings also turn barren from within.
Our present difficult situation demands a drastic breaking and
removing of our inner barreness.

This drama is the story of the peasants and the youth of Punjab.
Therefore we intend to take it to the innocent but hard working youth
living in our villages. Keeping in mind the programme of the presentation of
this drama in our villages, its designing has also been kept simplistic.

Writer :

'

Dr. Sawraibir

'

Agmkund

०

ब्धडाठौदृदृ

Directed by :

Kewal Dhaliwal

It’s a mythological drama which deals with the conflict between religion and politics.
The play is set in the period of early Kalayuga and narrates the story of conﬂict of

Janrnejya, great grandson of Panduva brothers. It's a about the struggle for existence

of Naga Tribes against the Aryans and has it's relevance scenario of India where
majority community tends to supress the minorities by all possible means resulting in
communal riots in prominent states like Gujarat, New Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir etc.

The conflict of the protagonist with his inner self make him conclude the war is not

the solution to the battle for existence.

Directed by :

शाक्त
ि
:
^
Dr. Sawrajbir

r

Jan ~ Da - Meet

ऩठ' दृ' भील

This drama of Dri'Swarajbir is aItOgether different from its previous

- gém'pésed dramas from the aspect > of theme and style. .This drama is a potent
v हूँहूँड्डेहँण्डि आं` the ,pfireserit‘vpolitical ' Sétaupzv This political pattern is such in which
everyéneis readyfte Ere-sold asthe'rnerehan‘d,ise of the market. The masseslare
‘ ट called tetl‘ielveryf ,vable but Soot-tin on the other leg. This drama depicts the
गृ हैं' 'छंद्भईहुँप्नदुछिद्विड़ेश्विमाँहैंशि folk draiiaam aver-y affected. style. there are tvvo colours who

३ . ३ ट्टेआँएँखीण्डिह्माहाँसिंदृहाँ इंद्रऊं-ट्वेंणव्रज्जैहांभाँ 'आसंड़आंसांठ to make forward the story of the drama.

Kewal Dhaliwal

ﬂlalwll. - Qangn

Writer: . .
Dr. Sawralbir

