लौट छ टिंव "तेउ की की चंड' वै, भेड है बिल्ले डे' ईब हैट' sari

s र्खिक्ली खीं चख मैं भी हुं क्या मैथक्ट as हैट'
Writer:

7

Sawdesh Deepak

.

. r

l 7 .

We:

, WW,

Directed by :

(mm Mama] बैलट मरियल

Kewal Dhaiiwal

Swadesh Deepak's Court Martial is a symbolic metaphor ofthe incesant struggle against the
exploittive and unjust system in the world. It attempts to wake us up from a slumber in which we have
become used to take any kind of injustice with any protest.

’ Writer :

jaiwant Daivi

.

Directed by :

Tarkalan उतंह्माप्लां

Kewal Dhaliwai

Where there is dusk at the time of Dawn when there is dusk at the time of mid night in moonait
night. When there is dusk at the time of mornings the life is going forward at its own pace. Where the life
has to go ahead with the pace of time, but now it is its limitations to move forward lovely. Numerous
questions are cropped up from this untimely dusk came in life. Hoping to ﬁnd the answers of these
questions, if we are to think about our parents. grand parents or our own future. it in the need ofthe hour
to think about these questions.
Time is needed to powder over these questions, now the main question arises from at that have
we time to think over it. If we have no time. these questions cannot he left merely on the desk of life.

Writer 3

~
v -

Vijay Tenduumr

.८

.,

. '

.

Ghastram Kotwal

v

क्या
'
r
ट
्
व
े
w
r , A 'l'

, ~दृ em
दृ 1

1यं मीत H बैउद ल

7

Directed by :

Kewa, Dhaﬁwa,

'Ghasiram Kotwal', a classic penned by worldefamous Marathi playwright Vijay Teridulkar, (translated by Hardee
p Gill) is
not a historical drama merely. It is a play, and only a play.
A play is always and primarily Only a play. To characterize a literary creation as historical or
mythological or social in nature can never be its proper critical evaluation. The passage of time, in fact,
transforms social into historical and historical into mythological.

The signiﬁcance of a play never lies in a photographic presentation of events in the objective
sense of the term. At the same time it is also equally significant that a play is in one sense or other
does
have social ,_ historical or mythological concerns.
The characters of Ghasiram and Nana are in one respect struggle oriented. By making their
struggle a medium, the playwright has also depicted in a most beautiful style the contempo
rary social
' ३ and political situation. It is tragic fact of Our life that person like Ghasirarn has always been
there in all
the historical epochs and also the persons like Nana who make and finish them for their ow
n selfish
motives. In the play Nana uses Ghasiram in a most clever way. And when his own crea
tion turns into a
Frankenstein threatening his own existence, he gets him murdered in a cruel manner:
it is nor a cruel truth ofthe politics of our own times ?
This Marathi play written by Vijay Tendulkar in a folk style will remain equally signiﬁcant in every ag
e.
That it has been staged time and again during the past decades is a tesrirnony of its fame and po
pularity.

Writer :

Mohan Rakesh

, ,

ASth K6 ER Dm M'H'? E" डेव सित

D'

:

Kewzeggjilzal

A famous drama Ashad-Ka-E k— Di n of Mohan Rakesh has a valuable and important
place in the History of
Hindi Drama. This drama has provided a new shape to the rnodren Indian Theatr
e. Mohan Rakesh has perfect
hold on language. The ups and downs of the life of the greatest poet Kalidas and do
leful Story of Malika are
depicted in this very drama. The more the drama sludied or watched, the more
the meanings became deeper.

