_ . क्त

{v

हाउ उर्द WSW? प्तडल्पीशां थाग्धत हुँ यंसत é? टो. यत हैठठरै से मृठठ ईब घाटी ली यंसत ते सित्का
I'—

Sarkara - e- khalsa मतबप्ल-हे-डालंच्चा

Conceived & Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

This Drama depicts the social Economic, cultural and political unstatulity during the reign
of Sher-a-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Where there the life time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh is the
valuable part of this drama, side by side the deception made by the Britishers is also important part
of it after the demise of Maharaja Ranj it Si ngh .

Writer :
G urs haran S i ngh

Dhamak nagare di यमत्र ठटा'तें सौ

Directed by :
Kewal D hal iwal

Dulla Bhatti is the hero of a folk legend of Punjab. Along with being a peasant hero in history he is also a unique
psychological type. His looting and plundering activities are an expression of his desire for freedom. Interestingly Dulla, in spite of
being a Muslim hero, is equally respected in Hindus also. When the king, in the name of religion wants to have him attached with his
darbar, he spurns his offer. Dulla, in this sense, is also the real secular hero. When the ruler resorts to an insult to his being, it does
not matter for Dulla whether the ruler is a Hindu or a Muslim.

Peasant rebels have always been 'benevolent dacoits' and they have always had a place of respect in society. Dulla stands
like a rock for the right of the peasants. In ideological terms his being is an expression of the interests of the peasants. His refusal to
accept any dernineering authority is also an expression of the right of the peasant to own the land that he til ls.
Dulla Bhatti is still
relevant in the present conditions
and. therefore, there exists a
need for him in the context of our
political and social aspirations.
The writer and director of
Dhamak Nagare Dee have not
only transformed Dulla in
accordance with our present
sensibilities but have also made
manifest those new ideas and
sentiments which can become the
basis of a new epoch in the
future. These ideas and
sentiments are concerned
primarily with human desire for
freedom which is now chained in
the stranglehold of the present
economic and political system.
Dhamak Nagare Dee is
a play tied closely with the lives of
our people. As a cultural
expression of this sybiotic
relationship motigs from folk
culture of the people of Punjab
and varieties of their folk music
have been profusely used.

Writer :
Badal Sarkar

Directed by :
spartakas

Hula- 2‘3”

Kewal Dhaliwal

"Yug-Yug-Ton-Vid roh i "
The drama "Yug-Yug-Ton-Vidrohi" is based on the revolt presented by the slave's
spartakas. Spartakas for us, is merely a concept a symbol. Where there is a slavery in any
part of the World, there is the existence of spartakas. The opposition of the spartakas did
not cease to be no more. It is still present in the form of every farmer, as well as every
labourer. The play is translated in Punjabi by Kewal Dhaliwal.

l3

