ने र्मय र्डठा ने आस्था हुँ, उदै खाहु मिलहुली, ने शांउप्त मैथ
हैं
हूँ
स्वर

Writer :
jatinder Brar
,,

र्डठा से हुँमच्चा सादु बी

FaaSIe Erna

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

,
Punjabi play Faasle is a commentary on contemporary society; I tell the story on
people living in this part of the world where on one side time and technology
deveoprnent have enabled man to conquer huge geographical difference but on other,
have led man to become indifferent his fellow human beings. Today our so is marked by
the widening distinctions based on class, caste religion etc. which threatening the very
nature of our being human.

है
हैं
‘
हैं
\
के
के

हैं

हैं
\

'

Writer :
jatinder Brar

च
KUdesan दृउमठ

Directed b .'
Kewal Dhaliwlbl

Kudesn is about the De graded condition of a Women who had to migrate to
another state from her native state because of her wretched economic conditions. It
depicts in a poignant way the human condition of a women. Who is sold is an open
market like cattle, reduce to states of a where migrant considered a child bearing
machine and then sold again to be enjoyed and used by others. Ultimately she come to
simbolized to tragic life of the women living under these conditions. Kudesan is a
question mark on the in human condition of women in our society.

Writer .'
jatinder Brar

Sabaz bagh प्नप्तन्न हाडा

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

Sh. Jatinder Brar's "Sabaz Bagh" is a “Panchtantar” like allergy with pungent
satire on the degenerated society of man. Taking his cue from Wordsworth's famous
lines :
"And much it grieves my heart to see,
What man has made of man."
Brar furnishes a poignant comment on the dubious life-style of the modern man
through the words of the beast of the forest. Lion, Jackal, Elephant, Fox, Pig, Deer and
Donkey meet on day in the green forest to introduce democracy in their society just
as rnenfolk have done in the human society. That men are superior comes under
sharp attack from various animals who bring to light how man has deﬁeld life on earth.

Writer :

jatinder Brar

Payedaan 111%???

Dl’eaed by 5
Kewal Dhaliwal

'Payedaan with a very serious theme but in a very hilarious manner with
touches of laughter in between its presentation. It tickles the psyche of the people
regarding their attitude and treatment given to the very unfortunate and less
priviledged human beings ignoring the humanitarian touch and ethical
responsibilities towards them. The story revolves around a small girl child of a
domestic help in a middle class family representing a whole lot of unwanted and
unattended children of our country who are suffering for no fault of theirs and
punished for no crime ever committed by them on this earth.

