V/ y y

Andar bahar manto श्लीउउ प्तारांउ if?

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

j 111/

Writer .'
Parminderjit

/ I/ ,

/

ऩन्ताडिशां बिस्व त्माठो र्मटें स्साषउगा थापा Hume र्मटें, में Fin-:73 मंड कूटा न्नमौत्तरै, QUE? उष्टी३ ऩठा'ड़े र्मंटें

Writer :
Davinder Daman

Tapish उधिम

/]iﬁ m r i/V

अँ

‘/«

Andar Baahar Manto by Parminderj it is a dramatic presentation of Saadat Hasan Manto's
Life, Court cases, Letters & famous stories like Naya Kanoon, Khol do, Syah Haashie, Sahai & Toba
Tek Singh by creatively correlating them with the experience his life passed through. The play,
then signifies what Manto said, he stood for", and above all, his relationships with the characters
and situations her created. In fact it is a portrayal of the existentialist signification of the literacy
phenomenon that goes with the name of Manto. The stark naked reality of the days of partitions
that we ﬁnd portrayed in his stories written during and after those catastrophic days in a picture of
both the lofty heinghts and the hellish depths that human values of love, affection and
brotherhood that Manto experienced at the time of his decision to leave India for Pakistan, he
never betrayed his commitment to humanism in his works. Essential thing about his works in the
expression of this humanism in situations which are otherwise full of pungent ironies, datires
sometimes bordering on nakedness. Andar-Baahar Manto is a testimony to this love for humanity
for which his literary works are known and which has given a new meaning to the backneyed
terms of literary criticism like reasl ism , progressivisrn etc.

Directed by :
Kewal Dhaliwal

T h o u g h f o r
as land of Five Rivers had been
invaders and its own rulers yet
politicomania under the garb
decades of bygone century
race of grab chair, power
cunning and horrible
resulted into the bloodshed of
molested womanhood,
very large scale on this land of
influence of Politico-mania the
hands of the players in such a
anticipate the mischievous
intelligence agencies in the
respective countries, which
of army of religious places
in some section of ranks under

centuries, this part of our country known
bearing the tyranny in the hands of
the wounds it received from the
of democracy in the last
are not easy to forget. I n the
strugglers played such a
organized trick which
youth, ruined old age,
orphaned childhood in a
Vedas. Under the
game slipped out of the
way that they could not
participation of foreign
interest of their
resulted into the attack
which triggered mutiny
religious sentiments. The
murder of prime minister
which further
cornrnoved genocide of
innocent people of a
particular commune in the
capital and other cities of
the world's biggest democratic country in an organized and shameful manner and made way for large scale d iasporas of people who
were yet hardly settled after the partition. The most sufferers were the innocent masses who bore the brunt of situation arose from
the conflict of terrorists and law and order machinery without any fault on their part.
Political parties blamed each other for this grim situation. One opposition party promised to uncover the reasons and
punish the responsible behind this tragedy.
Power exchanged but long silence prevailed . People recalled the new rules the promise they did. Answer was "This is not
good time to scratch the old wounds of people on this stage/"
Are the wounds really old and healing ? Are not the wounds of | 947 still bleeding ? And is there any assurance it would not
happen again ?
Polity is mum on these questions.
They play TAPASH carves a question mark on this criminal silence of the polity.

17

