DIRECTOR’S NOTE
While our bookshops are over-ﬂowing with ”RAJ

NOSTALGIA", while satellite TV. is the
representative of Indian Civilization, while in the

words of Mr. Ranjit Hoskote ”Rupert Murdoch’s
products are actually more appropriate to a
generation shaped by a decade of market-oriented
Social, Cultural & Economic policies-" perhaps it is a
good time to recall the struggle of our ancestors in
the face of grim British legal onslaught in the shape
of the Dramatic Performances Act, the Vernacular

Press Act, the Rowlatt Act etc., which gradually
attempted to destroy our National Indian Culture.

of colonialism, yet another onslaught has begun
disrupting our entire identity and depriving our
people of their self-respect and independence.
Again in the words of I-Ioskote ”channel switching
has become much more than a ritual of tedium. It is a
philosophy of life- you no longer bother to finish a
story, start again, ﬂip, start again. You carry neither
guilt nor nostalgia nor hope from frame to frame,
but remain aﬂoat in the present continuous”- which is
how we are trying to end our play, the terrible inertia
of the mind brought on by this cultural
recolonisation. We are also playing with the image of
“Black 8: White,” to begin examining the effects of

colonisation on our Indian psyche.
While today we are silent, voices of the past come
flooding to us- we recall the banned plays from the
1870’s, now in the 1990’s. For Rati the Dramatic
Performances Act has been a subject of great pain
and anger and she has researched and collected a
lot of material round it. We started looking at the
material together from last December. It is really
shocking to find an alien legal system enforced
upon a people to this day which not only judges
and defines culture, but has the right, any moment,

to destroy it.
Since Sumanta has been doing research on the
nineteenth century, we asked him to write the
scenes, and this became his first attempt at play
writing. And really, from just documentary material
started emerging scenes of the rehearsal, the trial
and legal proceedings. In addition to this, we had
collected a whole series of letters, some of which we

present in the letter-form or snippets of Raj
Nostalgia. 80 we have three intertwining themesThe legal proceedings, The Raj Nostalgia, the
banned plays and songs and end with the prevalent
market culture- ads, MTV, satellite channels and

soap operas.
The next phase was to make this palpable to the
students- and to us. What is colonialism? How does
it affect us in our daily existence? What are power
structures? What does a legal system do? What are
the strategies of fight? How does the media reﬂect
the split of the colonised mind? We spoke and
evolved exercises questioning ourselves and our
contradictions and what English speaking does to us.
While our play cannot yet say that we are dealing
with colonialism, we feel we are making the

beginnings. Several people feel we are showing only
black and white. I believe passionately and strongly
that the time has come to state in blaCk and white for just as we are recovering from two hundred years

The third year students have contributed greatly

through their suggestions, improvisations and
contributions to the text. We are proud to offer this
collaborative work written and. structured in two
months- the first step in examining some of the
struggles of the past and understanding our present
cultural vacuum. I hope this production helps us to
keep our spirit of courage and fight, alive.
—Anamika Haksar

