THE 1870’s
The last three decades of the 19th century - which
form the background of this play-were a turning
point in India’s political and cultural history, and
some of the characters and events depicted here,
played a major role in that history.
After almost a century of Western education, and
the consequent initiation into the political doctrines
of liberty and democracy, the educated Indians
during this period began to assert in a more
articulate and organised manner, their demands for
a distinct voice in political decision-making, a

greater share in administrative and judicial services,
and democratic rights like freedom of speech and
movement. This often brought them into conﬂict
with the colonial administrators, whose self-

righteous claims of ’civilizing’ the Indians
boomeranged on the British in the shape of public
agitations by the same ’natives’ whom they had
’civilized.’ Addressing their British mentors, who

Chattopadhlaya’s ’Cha-kar-darpan’ (published in
1874) which narrated the woes of Indian labourers
forcibly recruited to work in the tea-gardens by

British planters, were major cultural interventions in
the ﬂedgling nationalist discourse that marked the
1870 in Bengal. By incorporating and reenacting
some of the scenes from these two plays, the present
play harks back to the formative years of the anticolonial tradition of the Indian intelligentsia. In
1875, when the Great National Theatre of Calcutta
went with its troupe to Lucknow and staged ~Neeldarpan’ there, it provoked the British soldiers
among the audience to invade the stage and stop
the performance - a historical incident which has

been woven into today’s play. Lucknow, which was
the centre of the 1857 rebellion, was still regarded
by the colonial administration and its military
minions as a potential source of anti-colonial
sentiments, which they feared - even after 18 years -

could be stirred up by a play like ’Neel-darpan’.

moulded them into ’babus’ on the Macaulay model
through a meticulous training process (encapsulated
in a scene in this play), one contemporary Indian

Tensions between the rising nationalistic urges on
the one hand and British colonial resistance on the
other, reached a peak in Bengali middle class society
at the end of 1875, with the arrival of Prince

editor asked: ”Why did you not tell us before that

Edward - Queen Victoria’s son - who was known as

the more we learn, the less shall we be liked by
you?... Was that a hoax? Must we forever remain

the ’Royal Playboy’, in Calcutta in December that
year. Even before his arrival, Indian newspapers
complained about the wastage of money on his

enchained, crushed, trodden, ignorant, superstitious,

to satisfy your love of power? And you emancipated
millions of slaves and you boast of your civilization
and Christianity?” (AMRITA BAZAR PATRIKA,
February 24, 1870). This was the voice of the

emerging nationalism among the educated Indian
middle classes. The writer was 30-year old Shishir
Kurnar Ghosh, who appears in the courtroom scene
of this play, 'to oppose the Vernacular Press Act,
which was enacted by the British administration in
1878 to muzzle the Indian regional language press.

A sharper perception of the history of colonial
exploitation of the country’s economy and its people
during the previous one hundred odd years (which
was being conceptualized then, to be published later
by the ﬁrst generation of nationalist economists like
Dadabhai Naoroji in his ’Poverty and Un-British
Rule in India’), led the radicals among these
educated Indians to protest against administrative
high-handedness, and occasionally-to express
sympathy for the struggles of the downtrodden
and oppressed peasantry. Dinabandhu Mitra’s ’Neeldarpan’ (written in 1860, but staged for the first
time in 1872 in Calcutta) which described the plight
and protest of Bengali peasants forced to cultivate
indigo by British planters, and Dakshinacharan

reception, and extortion of subscription from

common citizens - particularly at a time when

Bengal was yet to recover from a severe famine that
devastated the countryside in 1874-75. While the
sumptuous reception thrown for him by a sycophant
Bengali advocate - Jagadananda Mukherjee —
angered Calcutta’s Bengali society, Edward’s
carousal with an English actress Lizzie Mathews,
(who happened to be in Calcutta at that time to act
in a play called ’My Awful Dad’) embarrassed the

British officials. The Bengalis retaliated by
larnpooning Edward’s reception and exploits, which
led to a number of developments culminating in the
enactment of the Dramatic Performances Act of
1876. These historical events form the pivot around
which the present play develops.
As the nationalist mood escalated, the British

administrators responded with a series of repressive
laws. The Dramatic Performances Act was followed
by the Vernacular Press Act of 1878 (to censor
writings in regional language papers), the Arms Act
of 1879 (forbidding Indians to carry weapons), the
Seditious Meetings Act of 1907, the Criminal Code
Amendment, Defence of India Act of 1913, and

finally - the draconian Rowlatt Act of 1919. During

