all this period, the stage - whether in Bengal,

after another every now and then to mock at the

Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, or other parts of

British rulers and their Indian toadies, infuriated the
colonial administrators. For example, in answer to

India - emerged as a powerful platform for voicing
the anti-colonial sentiments of the people. Historical
and mythological plays were staged with thinly
veiled allusions to British oppression and popular
resistance. In June, 1906, Bal Gangadhar Tllak visited

Calcutta, and watched the play ’Sirajaddaulah’,
where the famous actor Girish Ghosh in the role of
the hero, was reported to have delivered a . patriotic
speech that drew Tilak’s applause. The play was
banned a few years later. In fact, the ban on the

Dave Carson’s ”Bengali Babu ka Pakka Tamasha”
Mustafi created the immensely popular ”Mustafi
sahib ka Pakka 'I'amasha" lampooning the British,
goading them finally to arrest them. All through
these crucial stages, in the history of the Bengali
theatre, there was a band of dedicated actresses who
courageously stood by their male comrades. One of
them was Golap - a young girl brought to the
Bengali stage from a red-light area, to act in the

plays produced by the Great National Theatre in

play ’Shormishta’ (by the famous poet Michael

February-March, 1876 (referred to in the present

Madhusudan Dutt) in 1873, who rose to become one

play) was a prelude to a long history of suppression
of dissent in the theatre that spilled over to the
post-Independence era.

of the best actresses, got married to a Bengali
middle class actor-colleague of hers, and was
renamed as Sukumari Datta. All these personalities

Some of the main characters who played a key role
in these turnultous developments appear in the
present play. There is the Governor-General, Lord
Northbrooke (during whose regime the Dramatic

appear in different scenes in today’s play.

Performances Act was drafted;) the two Lieutenant

Governors of Bengal - Sir Richard Temple and Sir
Ashley Eden (the latter introduced the notorious
Vernacular Press Act); the Law Member, Mr
Hobhouse; the two police bosses - the commissioner

Stuart Hogg, and the Superintendent Lamb (who
were larnpooned in the farce "The Police of Pig and
Sheep’). We are also entertained by Dave Carson,
the British actor who in those days used to amuse
the city’s European audience with songs that made
fun of the Bengali ’babu’, on the boards of the

Opera House in Calcutta. While these characters
dominated the British political and social scene in

Calcutta in the 1870-80 period, in contemporary
Bengali society, a new generation of intellectuals was
emerging to challenge the authority of colonial
legislations and the hegemony of colonial cultural
values. Repressive laws like the Dramatic
Performances Act and the Vernacular Press Act,

brought together a band of dissident intellectuals
like Prannath Pundit ( who campaigned against the
Dramatic Performances Act through the pages of the
then well-known MOOKERJEE’S MAGAZINE);
Shishir Kumar Ghosh, the editor of AMRITA

BAZAR PATRIKA; Upendra Nath Das, a radical'
nationalist (who dramatized an actual incident of a

British magistrate’s attempt to rape a Bengali
woman, and the thrashing that he received at the
hands of her neighbour - in the play ’SurendraBinodini’, which became a red rag to John Bull!);
and the two eminent stage personalities of those
days - Amritalal Bose and Ardhendu Shekhar
Mustafi - whose amazing capacity to spin one farce

The colonial administration was prescient enough to
apprehend the threat posed by these plays that were
being staged in Calcutta in the 18703. Defending the
Dramatic Performances Act, the Lieutenant
Governor of Bengal, Sir Richard Temple warned that
younger members of the audience of these plays
could get inﬂuenced by their anti-British message,
and that this impact could spread to other parts of
India and lead to a larger political reaction. He was
not wrong in predicting the long-term impact of the
anti-colonial and nationalist plays. But the recipe
which he suggested - the Dramatic Performances
Act - failed to prevent the younger generation at the
turn of the 20th century all over India to launch a
variety of political struggles that led to the ultimate
retreat of the administrative successors of the
Northbrookes and the Richard Temples.

—Sumanta Bannerjee

