ON THE DRAMATIC
PERFORMANCES ACT:
CENSORSHIP ON THEATRE

individuals or classes, but what is even more

important, a design to excite ill-feeling against the
British name and nation, against the tendency of
British civilization and institutions and against the
result of British rule”!

It has been claimed that the presence of an act in
the statute books

is not an issue. Rather, it is the

use of the vari0us provisions which is important.
Therefore, in so far as the provisions of the
Dramatic Performances Act have been infrequently
invoked it is of little consequence. We believe
otherwise. The procedure set out under the Act
imposes censorship. The very presence of such and
act is designed to dampen creative expression. What
is more its provisions have been used often enough
to arouse apprehension.
The DPA of 1876 was part of a whole package of
repressive laws passed by the British rulers in the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries, particularly after
the 1857 revolt, to suppress and contain nationalist
uprising.

In Bengal in the second half of 19th Century, plays
on nationalist themes (allegorical, historical or based
on mythology) like Bhar'at Milap, Pum Vikram,

Gaekwad Natak centred round the alleged poisoning
of the British Resident Col. Phayre by Malhar Rao
who was subsequently deposed after a mockery of a
trial. In fact, the incident gave birth to another play

too Hirak Chuma Natak. Gajadanand was a farcical
offering on the visit of Prince Edward to the inner
chambers of a noted Bengali advocate and member
of the Legislative Council Iagadananda Mookerjee.
The incident drew plenty of reactions from
newspapers, writers and middle class circles.
Hemchandra’s Bajimat - a long poem inpired the
idea of the play. The Great National Theatre
established in 1873 staged most of these plays and
a bunch of well-known actors were in the forefront.
What is signiﬁcant is the fact that all these plays
were based on real contemporary incidents. More
over, the first two, were critical of the Englishman

and his commercial interests, the latter graduated
to being critical of British rule and institutions.

Sar'ojini Natak were highly popular. The first
contemporary issue-based play was Dinabandhu
Mitra’s Neel Darpan dealing with the Indigo planters’
oppression on peasants (1860). It was staged in

The Police intervened at two shows of Gajadanand
and the Prince. Immediately an Ordinance was
promulgated on 29th February 1876 in Bengal for a

Dhaka first, later in Calcutta in 1872. Michael

Governor” ..... to prohibit by order dramatic
performances which are scandalous, defamatory,

Madhusudan Dutt’s translation into English
published under Rev. Long’s name and copies sent to
England, created a furore among the Indigo planters,

who brought a case against Long. He was sentenced
to one month’s simple imprisonment and a fine of
Rs. 1000.
The interest of the administration was aroused
further when in mid-1875, Lord Northbrooke, the

Governor-General of India, read a translation in a
newspaper of Dakshina Chatterjee’s Cha-kar Darpan
(on the plight of tea-plantation workers in Assam)
and consulted the Advocate General regarding any
existing law which could prosecute the author and

prevent performance of the play. No criminal law
was found totally adequate and a separate bill was
proposed by the law member, Hobhouse.
In a Minute of June 13, 1876 Sir Richard Temple,

Lt.Governor or Bengal cited instances of four
plays: The Mirror of Indigo (Neel Darpan). The
Mirror of Tea (Chakar Darpan). The Trial of
Gaekwad (Gaekwad Natak) and ’Gajadanand and
the Prince’ and remarked: , ”It is remarkable that in

all these instances... not only is there libel against

period of three months, empowering the Lt.

seditious and obscene or otherwise prejudicial to the

public interest.” The final straw was the ﬂouting of
the Ordinance the very next day with the
performance of a seditious play Surendra Binodz'm'
Natak by Upendranath Das, followed by a farce The
Police of Pig and Sheep larnpooning Stuart Hogg the
Commissioner and Lamb the Superintendent of
Police, devised by the actors Mustafi, Amritalal and
others. Not only did the main play have scenes of
prisoners’ revolt, protagonist’s defiance of the
English Magistrate, but also of an attempted rape of
a woman by the latter. The author, manager and
actors of the Great National Theatre were arrested

and the play was banned on grounds of obscenity.
The judges in an appeal case, dismissed the charges
and released the arrested on March 20, 1876. This
certainly hastened the process and the bill became a
reality on December 16 as the Dramatic
Performances Act (19) of 1876.
Total power vested with the executive authorities, so

that a charge of sedition or obscenity could be
clapped without any opportunity for a hearing. Not

