that democratic norms were not observed. Not only

made by them ...should be stopped by the District
Magistrates as far as possible by the use of the
Dramatic Performances Act 1876....No previous

were each provincial head consulted and their
opinions sought, the proposed bill was circulated
among the public too. The Secretary of British India

reference need be made to the Provincial

Association Jatindra Mohan Thakur, Prannath

Government. .. .”

Pundit, Shishir Kumar Ghosh wrote extensively,

meetings were held in different cities, newspapers

In 1953 the Travancore-Cochin (Kerala) Government

in Bombay, Lucknow, Allahabad, Kanpur, Calcutta,

banned You made me Communist. In a high court
appeal the District Magistrate’s ban order was
declared ”void”. In another case the same year, a
notice was served on the Secretary of the West Bengal
branch of IPTA by the Calcutta Police Commissioner
which stated that ”in accordance with the provisions

Dhaka protested - but to no avail. Even minor
amendments suggested by the provincial heads
were not considered. Compare the Ordinance and
the Act—one would find very little difference in the
provisions. The latter is of course, for the whole of
British India and Burma. The last clause, exempting
religious plays was added.
A growing serious political theatre was axed
overnight. Not that no brave political theatre were

not staged at the cost of being banned, as would be
evident from just a few of the extracts we have been
able to include in our play. But certainly the move
was toward ’safer' plays - devotional or
entertaining. In G.P. Deshpande’s words, censorship
gained certain legitimisation. Not only that - in time,
censorship has been so internalised, that less and
less risks have been taken.

laid down under Section 7 of the D.P.A.1876", the

Secretary was supposed to submit manuscripts of 54
plays. some of which were not even produced by
IPTA! But IPTA was warned that ”non-submission
will result in legal action under Section 176 of the

IPC”. Curiously the list included Neeldarpan (1860)!
Also included in the list was Bijan Bhattacharya’s
Nabanna on the Bengal famine, first staged by IPTA
in 1944 and not banned at the time! .
In the same year, four members of IPTA. Razia

It will have been assumed that after Independence,
many of the oppressive laws created by the British

Sajjad Zaheer, Amritlal Nagar, Babulal Verrna and
Gokul Chand Rastogi were prosecuted for staging
Premchand’s Idgah at Lucknow. This play became
the occasion for the historic Allahabad judgement of
1956. Against the prosecution’s arguments invoking

to protect their Raj would be abolished. The D.P.A.

Section 3 of DPA 1876, Justices Chaturvedi and

was created to suppress ”a growing national stage
and its political repertoire” in Dr.R.K. Das Gupta’s
words. Despite the provisions of the fundamental
rights of a citizen, this ”fearful engine of
oppression” continues to this day. Except for
changing the term ‘Provincial’ to ‘State’, the D.P.A.
continued as it was till about the mid-fifties.
Thereafter, the majority of States repealed the central
act and introduced various state D.P.A.s with some
amendments largely with‘in the original framework.
What was ominously significant however was that

Mullah declared: ”Merely because a person preaches
or advocates by staging a play, a political ideology
different from the ideology of party in power, a
prohibitory order under Section 3 is unjustified...”
More important is their conclusion that ”.... the
Dramatic Performances Act, in the absence of a.

reasonable procedure to enforce its substantive
provisions is Ultra Vires of the Consitution, since in
its operation it places unreasonable restrictions on
the rights of citizens guaranteed under Article 19 of
the Constitution...."

the hand of the police was strengthened as in the

Bombay D.P.A. of 1950. Gradually the police have
been given the executive power which earlier had
vested with the magistrate.
Shortly after Independence, in 1949, the D.P.A. 1876
was heavily used against the IPTA and the PWA.
The following circular to District and Police
Authorities in West Bengal shows the trend: ”It is
likely that some organisations, such as the All India
Peoples’ Theatre Association and the All India
Progressive Writers’ Association with communist

However, soon after, most of the State acts came

into existence and the banning of plays continued,
In Madras, in the fifties and sixties pro-DK and
DMK plays like Keemayanam, Kahita Poo (Paper
Flower), and Por Val (Battle Sword) were axed. When

the DMK came into power in 1967, anti-DMK plays
were banned. None of the plays, though popular,
were of great quality. But that is beside the point.
More recently, in Kerala in 1987. Antony’s The Sixth
Sacred Wound of Christ was banned under the Kerala
DPA 1962 and Nathugaddiga (Glory of the Country)

affiliations and leanings may be organising public
earlier in 1978.

dramatic performances, songs, etc

any attempt...

