A few minor attempts at getting the Act repealed

silly songs and dances? Its climax is half-nude
dancing. Those who are responsible for this ugly
corruption of Histrionic Art, will one day repent.

have been made. In 1972, Habib 'I‘anvir as member

of the Rajya Sabha introduced a private member ’8

bill to repeal the DPA which never came up for
debate during his term. The March group in Delhi
took up the struggle against Entertainment Tax and
the DPA in 1974. Madhu Limaye, joining the fray,
suggested an amended Act, on the plea that total
abolition would not be acceptable to the
Government. Predictably nothing happened.

(This is a revised shortened version of a paper Sahmat encouraged
me to write in 1989. I gratefully acknowledge help given to me
then by Gautam Navlakha, Riyaz Ahmed, Rajendran And (1.1).
Deshpand e. )

—Rati Bartholomew

Though there has been the possibility of judicial
recourse, IPTA, from the early fifties, rightly urged
concerted action by theatre workers for immediate
withdrawal of the Act. Only in West Bengal did the
struggle take proper shape. The united protest by
theatre workers and artists forced the state
government to drop the proposed state bill in 196263. Consequently, there is no Dramatic Performances
Act in West Bengal.
However, this has not precluded the state using

other laws still in existence. One such is Section
124A of the Indian Penal Code 1860. In 1974, the
sedition charge under 124A was brought against
Utpal Dutt’s Dushwapaner Nagari (Nightmare City)
which dealt with police atrocities in Calcutta. The
play was shifted from its original venue in the north
to south Calcutta, where party-workers protected the

performance. Theatre people from all over Bengal
protested against the government’s action and ﬁnally
the case was dropped. Earlier in 1966 The DIR was
brought against Utpal Dutt’s Kallol, which dealt with
the rebellion of Indian ratings of the Royal Indian
Navy in 1946! He was imprisoned for six months.
Despite threats to actors, threats of closure, and

boycott by the advertising section of papers, the
play continued to run to full houses due to strong
protests from theatre workers and sympathisers.
In the three cities of Bombay, Madras and Delhi, the
police have now been made guardians of culture.
The implementation of the DPA is in their hands.
One remembers what Girish Ghosh, the great actor

and playwright remarked way back in the 19th
Century:

”Why don’t you see what great misfortune has
fallen on this country, that the critic and judge of
theatre is the police! No protest from literary circles.
Character, dialogue and scenes have to be changed
according to the instructions of the police!"
And again: ”Who brought the stage low by pushing
out serious drama and replacing it with light society
sketch and pantomime, fooling the spectators with

10

