THE DRAMATIC PERFORMANCES
ACT (19) OF 1876.
An act for the better control

5.

of public dramatic

performances (December 16,1876)

Preamble: Whereas it is expedient to empower the
Government to prohibit public dramatic
performances which are scandalous, defamatory,

seditious or obscene: it is hereby enacted as follows
1. Short Title : This Act may be called the
Dramatic Performances Act, 1876.
Local Extent: It extends to the whole of India
except Part ’8’ States.
2.
”Magistrate” Defined: In this Act ”Magistrate”

Power to Notify Order: Any such order may be
notified by proclamation, and a written or
printed notice thereof may be stuck up at any
place or places adopted for giving information
of the order to the persons intending to take
part in or witness the performance so
prohibited.
Penalty for Disobeying Prohibition: Whomever
after the notification of any such order
(a) takes part in the performance prohibited
thereby or in any performance
substantially the same as the performance
so prohibited, or

(b)

in any manner assists in conducting any
such performance, or

means in the presidency towns, a Magistrate of

Police, and elsewhere the Magistrate of the

(c)

is, in wilful disobedience to such order,

(d)

present as a spectator during the whole or
any part of any such performance, or
being the owner or occupier, or having the

District.

3.

Power to prohibit Certain Dramatic Performances:
Whenever the provincial Government is of

use of any house, room or place, opens,

opinion that any play, pantomime or other

and keeps or uses the same for any such
performance, or permits the same to be
opened, kept or used for any such
performance, shall be punishable on
conviction before a Magistrate with

drama performed or about to be performed in

a Public place is

३

(a)

of a scandalous or defamatory nature, or

(b)

likely to excite feelings of disaffection to
the Government established by law in

imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three months, or with fine, or

British India or British Burma, or

(c)

likely to deprave and corrupt persons
present at the performance, the provincial
Government, or outside the presidency
towns and Rangoon the Provincial
Government or such Magistrate as it may
empower in this behalf, may by order
prohibit the performance.
Explanation: Any building or enclosure to which
the public are admitted to witness a performance on
payment of money shall be deemed a ”Public Place”
within the meaning of the Section.
Power to Serve Order of Prohibition—Penalty for
4.
Disobeying Order: A copy of any such order
may be served on any person about to take
part in the performance so prohibted, or on the
owner or occupier of any house, room or place
in which such performance is intended to take
place: and any person on whom such copy is
served, and who does, or willingly permits,
any act in disobedience to such order, shall be

7.

with both.
Power to Call for Information: For the purpose
of ascertaining the character of any intended
public dramatic performance, the Provincial
Government, or such officer as it may specially
empower in this behalf, may apply to the
author, proprietor, printer of the drama about
to be performed, or to the owner or occupier
of the place in which it is intended to be
performed, for such information as the

Provincial Government or Such officer thinks
necessary. Every person so applied to shall be
bound to furnish the same to the best of his
ability, and whoever contravenes this section

shall be deemed to have committed an offence

8.

under section 176 of the Indian Penal Code
(IPC).
Power to Grant Warrant to Police to Enter and
Arrest and Seize: If any Magistrate has reason to
believe that any house, room or place is used
or is about to be used, for any performance

punished on conviction before a magistrate
with imprisonment for a term which may

prohibited under this Act, he may, by his
warrant, authorise any officer of Police to enter
with such assistance as may be requisite, by

extend to three months, or with fine, or with

both.

night or by day, and by force, if necessary, any

11

