such house, room or place, and to take into

custody all persons whom he finds therein,
and to seize all scenery, dresses and other

articles found therein and reasonably suspected
to have been used, or to be intended to be

10.

used, for the purpose of such performance.
Saving of Prosecutions under Penal Code, Sections
124A and 294: No conviction under this Act
shall bar a prosecution under Sec. 124A or
Section 294 of the Indian Penal Code.
Power to Prohibit Dramatic Performance in any
Local Area, Except under Licence: Whenever it
appears to the Provincial Government that the

provisions of this section are required in any
local area it may, with the sanction of the

Governor-General in Council, declare by
notification in the official gazette, that such

provisions are applied to such area from a day
to be fixed in the notification.
On after that day, the Provincial Government

may order that no dramatic performance shall
take place in any place of public entertainment
within such area, except under a licence to be
granted by such Provincial Government or

such officer as it may specially empower in
this behalf.
The Provincial Government may also order that
no dramatic performance shall take place, in
any place of public entertainment within such
area, unless a copy of the piece, if and so far it
is written, or some sufficient account of its

purport, and so far it is pantomime, has been
furnished, not less than three days before the
performance, to the Provincial Government or
to such officer as it may appoint in this behalf.
A copy of any order under this section may be
served on any keeper of a place of public
entertainment; and if thereafter he does, or

willingly permits, any act of disobedience to
such order, he shall be punishable on

conviction before a Magistrate with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months or with fine, or with both.

11 .

Power Exercisable by Governor-General: (Repealed
by A0. 1937)

12 .

Exclusion of Performances at Religious

Festivals: Nothing in this Act applies to any
jatras or performances of a like kind at
religious festivals.

12

