women’s groups, particularly in Himachal Pradesh
and in Delhi and with children here and elsewhere.
She has been very active in street theatre being part
of a collective - Theatre Union and has been
working extendedly in Bangladesh since ’83 with
Nijera Kori’ an organisation which works with

ANAMIKA HAKSAR
Graduated from National school of Drama in 1982.

Specialized in Direction at State Institute of
Theatrical Arts, Moscow. Awarded Diploma of
Excellence in Theatre Direction. Directed the first
Indo-Soviet theatrical production ”Reminiscences of

villagers. In 1990, she directed Shahid Nadim’s Ihalli

Krishna” in 1988 for the Moscow ensemble of Plastic

Kitthe javey for Ajoka in Lahore.

Arts. This production was part of the Indo-USSR
She has written extensively on theatre and has coFestival and was performed at Bombay, Delhi,
Calcutta, Bhopal, Lucknow, 1989. Directed
‘Dakghar', a highly acclaimed production with Shri

translated two of Badal sircar’s plays into Hindi.

Ram Centre Repertory; ‘Viy’ an experiment with
Gogol with her group Nirakar; ‘Grahon ki Kahani,

S UMANT JAYAKRIS HNAN

Grahon ki Zabani’, with the Khilona Children’s

Surnant Jayakrishnan a graduate from the National
Institute of Design, Ahmedabad. He specialized in
Graphic Design, Exhibition Design, Audio Visuals,
Calligraphy and Multimedia. For his final diploma
project he took up the stage design for a Rock
Opera on the Mahabharata, which he presented via
3D Computer Animations.

Repertory, 1990. Directed ‘Dream of Reason’ with
Nirakar. 1991-Directed ‘The Great Coat’ with
Bhartendu Natya Academy. 1993-Directed
Antaryatra’ based on the well known Tamil epic
Sillapadikararn with Nirakar.
Founded Nirakar in 1988, a registered Society which

strives to explore a new theatre language, combining
poetry, metaphor movement and text.

8UMANTA BANN ER]E E
Sumanta Bannerjee, journalist and civil rights activist,
is best known for his ’"Ihe Simmering Revolution’ (In
the Wake of Naxalbari, in its Indian edition) and The

Thema Book of Naxalite Poetry, two seminal texts on
the Naxalite Revolt. His most signiﬁcant book is the
Parlour and the Street which deals with Elite and
Popular Culture in Nineteenth Century Calcutta. He
is a painter and art critic too.

Over the past year, he has worked mainly on projects
dealing with Stage, Television and Dance. He has
designed sets for ”The Normal Heart” directed by
Barry John; ”Kiss of the Spiderwoman” directed by
Rustom Bharucha; ” Chuna Lagga Ke” - a TV.
Muppet show with rnuppets designed by Dadi
Pudumjee; ”JCT Bodybuilding Championship ‘93”;
“YANTRA”- dance diagrams choreographed by
Chandralekha. He has also been conducting
workshops and guiding design students working on
productions at the National School of Drama.

RATI BARTHOLOMEW
Rati Bartholomew has been a lecturer in English at
Indraprastha college and Delhi University. Among
the various plays she directed while working with
students were: The House of Bernarda Alba,

Antigone, Tasher Desh, Iakov Lind’s Fear and

Tripurari’s Bahu.
A founder member of Yatrik and later vicepresident of Dishantar she directed Blood Wedding
for the former and Mohan Rakesh’s short plays for
the latter.

Since the 80’s has worked only on evolved plays —
two notable ones being 'I‘ripurari’s Aks Paheli and
Kath Ki Gadi - the latter with NSD Rep. Since then
has been taking workshops and evolving plays with

16

