Light Designer

Mr. Bose is one of the most prominent radical young theatre directors of Contemporary
Indian Theatre who has also carved of his own riches in the ﬁeld of ‘Scenography and
Stage Illuminations’ through his own style of innovative stage techniques.
Mr. Bose has got Senior Diploma in ‘Direction’ from Institute of Indian Theatre Arts,
Calcutta, Graduated from National School of Drama in ‘Direction’, New Delhi and for

further studies under cultural exchange programme went to National Institute of Dramatic Arts, Sydney; Australian
in ‘1)esign and Theatre Techniques’.
Mr. Bose has worked with almost all the leading theatre directors of India and some of them of international repute.
As an ex-member of NSD Repertory Company and for others, Mr. Bose has acted in leading or major roles for
over more than ﬁfty productions, designed sets and lights for more than seventy productions and directed more
than thirty productions the much acclaimed production of NATI BINODINI for NSD Repertory Company and in
1997 to celebrate two occassions: the birth centenary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and the Golden Jubilee of
Indian Indepnedence, directed NSD repertory Company’s prestigious Mega - Mutimedia production of DILLI
CHALO which was selected for Govenment of India’s tribute ceremony ‘Tribute to the Nation’ and staged twice
at the historical Red Fort. Then TURUP KA PA'IVI‘A for SRC Repertory Company (Best Production 1999; Sahitya
Kala Parishad, State Government of Delhi and participated in NSD’s 2nd National theatre Festival - Bharat Rang
Mahotsav), SANYASI KI 'IAIMAR for SKP Rangmandal in 2001), SOCRATES for Circle Theatre Company (Paticipated
in 4th Bharat Rang Mahotsav in 2002) and on the occasion of 25th year celebrations of School f0 Drama, Thrissur
(Calicut University) directed TURUP CHEETU in Malayalam Language. In 2003, the latest production ofJULIUS
CAESAR KI AAKHIREE SAAT DIN for Circle Theatre Company etc.
Mr. Bose has Participated in Berlin Theatre Festival and visited other countries. Awarded Fellowship from NSD,
Senior Fellowship from Department of Culture, Government of India and Netaji Samman from AIFB.
Mr. Bose has been in the Visiting Faculty of NSD and various institution of India since 1992. At present he is
working as a Freelance Designer, Director teacher and Artistic Director of a new orgniasation called Circle
Theatre Company, New Delhi.

