TH AN A THE K EY
A S C HI
l 97 7

The Bengali adaptation of Priestley’s ‘An Inspector
Calls—Thana Thekey Aschi’ presented by Kaal
Chakra ................... ..is a satisfactory transcreation

in that it keeps to the playwrights intent and wears the
Bengali robe well ................ ..
——STATE SM AN
HA’ HA’ 8 WA D E S H
1 977

Kaal Chakra‘s Presentation of Ha’ Ha’ Swadesh staged

here in the Bengali Club last evening ...................... ..
.__ ...The selection should have been all the more

scrupulous. Otherwise the play is bound to bog down
in the very ﬁrst scene

....... ..The play had a powerful script that kept the
audience engaged all the time .......... ..
—— T H E PIONEER
LU C K N O W
DA AN SA G AR
1 9 78

The initiative for introducing Premchand to Bengali
audience came from Kaal Chakra, which presented
‘Daansagar’ (Fine Arts Theatre), a dramatized version

of Premchand’s short story Kafan. Kaal Chakra‘s
production as directed by Ajoy Chatterjee was relevant
, to the extent that it did not altogether miss the
moments of tensron and tremor.

—-HINDUSTAN TIMES
GA RA M B H A AT
ATH OBA NI C HAK
B HU T E R G A L P O
1 9 79

GOHST PLAY WELL STAGED—As has been time

and again, drarnatisation from either a novel or a story
does not seem to work out satisfactorily on the stage.
But, there is nothing like it when a well-written story is
mounted on the stage with as much effect as the
written word. One such memorable excr r, tic n came in

Kaal Chakra's dramatised version of Sunil Gangopadhyava’s story-Garam Bhaat Athoba N ichak Bhuter
Galpo—presented at Fine Arts Theatre.
Kaal Chakra‘s Lokenath Roy made an effective
dramatisation highlighting such material t h at well
serves the dramatic interest.
The play perfectly Suited the players of Kaal
Chakra who have always shown unusual ﬂair for rural

based dramas. The cast showed its agility in stirring up
a tempest out of the simmering discontent in a barren
provincial outpost.

Appropriately, Lokenath Roy as

the ﬁery youth dominated‘the show. A very effective
demonstration of

physical

contortion

came

from

