F
p
l

taking a leap from which the contemporary being can explore the tradition and
keep it vibrant with the warmth ofhis/her own experience oflif'e

I have looked at Shakuntala within the isolation ofadoption, therefore of
over-protection, an unnatural household, however well meaning, and certainly
sublime. She remains then and now, unprotected against the sophisticate’s desire and desertion. However, the consequent isolated pregnancy and mother-

hood, give her the hardihood to choose to live alone. It must be today's, urgent
story. As it must have been yesterday to a compassionate Kalidasa. Today a

true choice may be different. In the Shakuntalam l have had recourse to Indian
Manuscript painting. For Mudrarakshasa l have depended on Tantric motives,
as they deal with power, or Shakti. Chanakya has the Saptamandala motif

denoting deep knowledge. Rakshasa has the Kundalini for his ﬁnal realisation of

purity ofdisinterested service.
In this whole project, I also tried to deﬁne the use of the body in classical
theatre vis-a-vis Folk Theatre. Folk Theatre having mostly a three or four-sided
audience has accepted an element of accidentality in the directional attitude of
the body. It is an arbitrary combination offront, back or profile position which

is inherent in folk theatre, but in the Classical, it having an one-sided audience—
position and definite acting areas, all body positions have to be worked out in
great detail. Even ifthe back is showing in some part of the performance it must
follow a deﬁnite code to communicate definite ideas.
I am responsible for a few decisions, e .g. doing ‘ S hakuntalam’ in Sanskrit.
Reading ofvarious translations made me to come to the conclusion that Kalidasa
is quite untranslatable. ‘Shakuntalam’ in Sanskrit would not be possible if Dr.

Baldev Anand Sagar would not have inspired me. There are two theories con—
cerning the Nandi. Either it was sung from the Nepathya or recited on stage.
Both theories have been used. But as far as the Bharatavakya is concerned, I
felt the need of an ultimate message which includes all the three performance
segments. Whether it is ‘Prakaran’ ‘Prahasan’ or any other from, the ﬁnal aim
oflndian performance is not only invoked in our Bharatavakya but is graphically

represented in our logo too: Ananda.
With all these extreme codiﬁcations and immense freedom Classical Theatre is the zenith of all arts and has thus been given the respect ofa Fifth Veda
unlike any other theatre tradition which shows the social status as well as re-

sponsibility of a performer in our society. An Aacharya of this Fifth Veda has
to be no less than master of all trades. Then only will we be able to salute our
great tradition which has been re-enlivening itself, again and again, like a phoenix
through the last 5000 years.
Dreaming, of that day, and bowing down to ‘Mahakaala’, praying, to
reveal the ‘Ananda’ to us,

Rita Ganguly

