/

This is the only professional theatrical Company of its
,/
/k i nd . It is unique in constitution and avowed objects
l

Its constitution is corporate, that is to say, it is run
by the actual members who are seen in the plays, each of
which is a sharer as were the players of Elizabethan times,
each artist having speciﬁed responsibility in various
capacities, costumes, music, settings, publicity, booking
and all the hundred and one little things that are done
normally by a host of people whose names appear amongst

the ‘wines and spirits’ on the programme.
The objects of the Company are again unique, inasmuch as they do not devote their talents to playing only in _

recognised Theatres

In fact most of their time is spent in

playing in places where no other Company has dared to
play. Places as remote as Cork and Calcutta, Valletta and
Vizianagram, Rome and Razmark, from the North West
Frontier of India. to the Borders of Burma, from the

Himalayas to Cape Lomerin plays have been performed to
thousands who would never have had the opportunity of
such an experience had it not been for these most mobile
and pioneering of players.
Many places have shown a keen desire to retain the
Company to start an International School of Drama in
their midst; and in the future, as they expand they hope
such things will be possible, but the present aim is to visit
all Countries, because they feel that ८…‘In Spite of differences of soil and climate. of language and manner, of
laws and customs, ३- in spite of things Silently g‘One out of आत्माएँ-छटाई things

violentlydestroyed.——-the poet

binds together by passion and knowledge a

Vast empire 0f~ human sometv as it is spread over the

whole Earth, and over

all time. Poetry is as immortal as the heart of man. ’
And so in order to reach the highest number of people they have
covered as much ground as possible, and a l tho’ they are not subsidise-d
in any way, kept the charges at a minimum.
'I‘heir present great need is transport, and any contributions, for

the furthering of their eﬁort, however small, are very WBII'OIIIB, as are
any suggestions for widening the scope of their activity.

