tiiri All Assam \l .५1८ Confert-tt ५.
Wrapped it: lv' ण ts. and itmi 'ty-

count: people It . is astonishing. ’Ihese
art men and women who are perhaps
Wt nrktnt'
(thle't‘prot'essronals in San
jttse. or heading start-ups 11। lienmtluru.
lot during the huh/m season in Chenr
hat. the} make it a point to come to town
and at [end some of the best concert 5.
Tilt scenario here is rather different
totliv. The troubles and unrest of agen-

५.11१1८'1111८ - v '1५५ niistandt'lit '11111'111८

i‘riitiun have been largely instrumental

': . my ५ ll the open. है were
at Mile msi'icus. 'l ‘iti showed

in \ntlieringaway interest 111holding such

t‘ rt i'erbt‘rtitt if in the 11८७
'111 11311३'1५
\‘lt‘tlll ll.t‘ l .

'

ecizitionm'tht

५५ t trwttis sat
' .l' tne legen-

itt‘li~\\'rtluﬂhl

tithet-mutnt ३ m througliri
:tult, {Zliilt‘ftliitll

. lclappintzand

\‘l crshotitsnt‘npprtu him.

At one Uan it v i~ t 1111५111८1'९८८1 "५९11tt-cl“ t. l llit'-t

Suntan. l
of
rl

l~

'८11३1- tit Shastn’ya

t idrlinpt acquaintance
twat. This latter gen-

.'l is now hardly heard
७11८९द्ग1५ This. of course. is our
.sltuslma Suture! concerts.
‘Mumi- ([uliL‘ rare here. Even
... Radio. \'» illLll Used to holdthese
१ ५९1151111९111 public in the post seems
tohatc- abdiizitcd itsresponsrbility
lih hlluii‘f‘ll‘tl Nougat! Ni!“ ii .. and
I
s श्या!! have. its alicionm
५2७५ bio-“here in thc triuntry. Even
८ )1 pet pie can be seen flocking to
11 urn. Mumbai and Delhi. in 01०11ii itenualuru. the 1९1'61011८11८1५३1eriut- oi Lariiutic Llassitzd Music that

mn~ical events. Bringing tn "oittSirle"
artistes i. ८111 expensive proposition. and
tilt msts involved in organising a show
oi this kind are high. Who will risk this
nmi ३ For music. especially music :is delic.I t c u s SlmlnyaSallgt’t”. it cannot flowor t intessthere is an atmosphere of peace.
Into this aridity came. as a welcome
\il(l\\'(f|'. Banyan Tree's "Swara" event
in (itiwahati on November 8, at the
l‘fviwyfﬂl ITA auditorium. The event
feat tIl’L'd the doyen of HindustaniShaslmu hangiwl. Ustzid Rashid Khan. as
well as Neelav Shanna on the Malian
1 r'l‘llu, and Sunita Bhuyart on the violin.
'I he fact that there are still many who
love Shaslriya Sangeel in our ci
apparent by the size of the audience. It
wa a lull hall which listened to the maes—
tro. in put drop silence, punctuatedonly
by sounds ofappreciation.
Young performer Neelav Shanna
opened with Raga/0g, which is, arguably. :in unusual choice for 6 pm. It is usually considered to be a late night Raga.

ly with his playing on the Malian Veena. His conﬁdence and
musicality are unusual in one
so young. as is his mastery of

३ । [dye and laal. Choosing not to
'

dwell too tnuch on the «loop,
he swung straightaway into
Madhya («ya and dud fiherich
tonality of hisplaying added to
the display of his understanding of the
However. thesedays. time—cycle distinctions are being blurred. andthe rigidity Raga, as did his dexterity. and the powerof his stroke play. Hewas ably sup«
that bound performers to performing a
particular Raga only at a
ported on the tabla by
particular time is going m Kaushik Konwar.
Neelav was followed by Sunita Bliuyaway. In the South. these distinctions
are not seen in contemporary performanon the violin. Sumta has already won
accolades for her performances I across
ances, andmost Ragas are played at any
the globe. mostly_ for her folk-fusion
time of the day or night.
I
_ and
In anycase. Neelav impressed greatcontemporary pieces. Thts evening. she
i
v
c
. ..
.

, 4t ८ it 7

played Ilamsadhwam. Her st nictu red
performance paid due importance to the
ui'lambr'l. madhya and drill portions. and
was notable for the livelylayalzarf. Retriiniscent in many places of her mother
Minoti Khound's and theirgum निशां! V
G Jog's playing. hers was undoubtedly a
gharanmbased piece. She ended her performance with twolighter numbers. One
was Bhupen Hazarika's Bistimopamre.
the other ashort Bihu melody which she
embellished with melodic ornamenta—
tions inRagaBhupali. interspersed with
her own vocalisms. DibyajyotiSangmai
gave her able support onthe tabla.
Ustad Rashid Khan began his programme in his usual unfussy manner;
swinging straight into his singing without long prefatory speeches Gomlzlt
Kalyarr appears to beone of his favourA
ite Rages. and he has performed it in
many concerts worldwide. His exposition of this Raga was like a prayer. a
meditation, with due importance and
weightage given to each aspect of this
pentatonic late evening melody. He
maintained the seriousnessof theRaga.
while infusing it with a layeredbrightness that explored all dimensions. He
is one performer who never dilutes the
core classici srn of hi5 heritage. uncompromising in its rigour. And yet. such
is his mastery over .9141, laya and laal.
such is the magic ofhis riclily textured
voice, and the luminous overall aural
beauty of thewhole ediﬁce that hecre-

ates. that he holds even crowds oflay
people enthralled till the very last note

Hf his performance.
Exploring the charatterisrics of each
note. bothin themselves and in relation
to the othersof this Raga. he built atriajesLic structure. whichhe proceeded to
embellish with numerous decorative
details. Ranging effortlessly over octaves. he brought power as well as soft-

ness to his recital. Sticking as usual to
the traditional Izmirth of his Rampur
Seheswan Gharana. he sang a rvilmubil
and two Marﬂiyalay-a compositions. all of
whichwere complete in themselves.HJS
laankan' and smgams were complex yet
easily delivered. and his toral mastery
overlaya and [MI was evidenL Here is a
maestroat theheight ofhis powers.and
eachconcert of his always brings a sense
ofdeep fulﬁlment to listeners
Rashid Khan followed this up withan
emotive Dadm. Baalan baalon "rein
beetgayi mat in Palladi. and the iconic
Miami/11m na baalam. He also gracefully acquiesced to the audience‘ requests for his song Anger jab hurt. his
chanbuster from the ﬁlm/ab We Mil.
\litayChair: onthe tabla andjyoti Coho
onthe harmoniumwere totally in sync
withthe maéstro's mi'zaz, and enhanced
the whole greatly.
It is to be hopedthat Banyan Treenow
spreads its branches ovathis region with
more frequent “Swara: Music for Life"
concerts ofthis naturein future

