प्लीदृचिंस्काच्चा"
ENCOUNTER WITH SHAKESPEARIAN TEXT
The style of Shakesperian language has traveled about the whole universe and belongs to every human character.
- Ratan Lal
I ﬁrst encountered the Shakespearian text when I was in 9th class and really I was not able to understand the depth
of the literature at that time but now at this age I do and I can say that Shakespeare is the only playwright in this whole
world who understood human beings best of all.
- Sushil C. Bounthiyal

This is the ﬁrst time I am practically encountering Shakespearian text. Our director insists to explore the words
of the play, so this is a useful process to play Shakespeare as it is in the text. (word to word) I had always been
fascinated by the big speeches in his plays like Hamlet, Julius Caesar etc. but this time in the process of enacting, I
have got more deeper understanding of his work.

- Sonam Stobgais

An actor or director is not considered complete without a Shakespearian production. My ﬁrst encounter with
Shakespearian text was in 8‘h standard in school, that too a comedy called ‘As You Like It’. Surprisingly its no
playwright other than Shakespeare and his plays that I still remember of and can deﬁnitely recall many of the lines
from each of his plays. Its not only in his plot but the fascination and uniqueness lies in the language. An amazingly
excellent selection of words which gives life to every character and portrasy a sensitive understanding of human and
his inner self. Everything in his play seems so well thought, planned out in detail and so much meaningful.
- MeenalKapoor
Text is reference. Timely text should relate past, present, future. Shakespearian text has energy to relate and
twist the time.
- M. Shanmuga Raja

Exact expression of the thoughts — that’s what SHAKESPERIAN TEXT IS ! It gives an impression that as soon
as the thought emerges within the depths of our mysterious minds, he catches hold of it and convinces us that there
could be no other replacement or substitute for that word. No other word can take its place. The Magician; the warrior;
that’s where his genius lies. The words create the magic and use of these words in its particular fashion become
weapons for warrior Shakespeare. PHEW! what a difﬁcult job it is. For e.g. in “Julius Caesar’ Mark Antony ’ 5, speech
- “Friends, Romans and Countryrnen, lend me thy ears.” What could be the translation of “lend me thy ears.” Well, till
date nothing satisfactory is there. Thats what Shakespeare and his text is all about. Its originality cannot be substituted
or be recreated.
- Neeraj Wahal

शेक्सपीयर के लगभग फभी नाटक पढे I उनके सभी नाटकों में एक तरह की लयपूर्ण और काव्यात्मक भाषा है और उसका मर्म
हम तक पहुँचता भी है I मगर यह भाषा बोलते वक्त या सुनते वक्त शुरूआत में अपनी जैसी नहीं लग रही थी I ट्रेजिडी में तो तब भी

आसान हो सकता है परन्तु कॉमेडी मुदिकल है I हमारी यह कोशिश है कि इस भाषा कॉ अपना बनाते हुए उसका मर्म और एहसास

खुद महसूस करते हुए दशंक तक पहुँचाये और उन्हें हैंरिवारों I
— विनांर्द बहादुर 773‘

"TO BE OR NOT TO BE' ........ इस सवाल के साथ Shakespeare से मुलाकात I Hamlet ...... Macbeth...... और अब
Midsummer Night's Dream. भाषा तो सब कह देती है, जो शब्द नहीं कह पाते | पर अभी भी A के Z तक के क्रम में Shakespeare

को Zero से जानना है । अपने स्वयं से पूप्टदूं तो Shakespeare पढा है, समझना जिमी बाकी है । यकीनन हम सब अपने कामों के द्वारा
Shakespeare को impress करने दो कोशिश करेंगे I हम सबने काफी मेहनत दो है I First Year से Third Year तक I
— सुनिता लिवाली
सालों से अभिनेता की परीक्षा कर रहे नाटकों को पढना, उन संवादों को समझना जिन्हें मंच पर सफलता से बोल लेना सार्थकता
हो एक अभिनय के विद्यार्थी के लिए तीर्थ यात्रा के समान हो जाता है । पद कर समझ आया कि क्यो सदियों पहले लिखे नाटक आज

भी सामयिक लगते हैं I एक अहसास हुआ क्यों शेक्सपीयर महान है I
— दुवा' air/7

