Rob Clare

क्यों

Rob Clare was born in Manchester and is now based in Oxford, UK, where he lives with his wife and
daughter. He was educated at Oxford University, and trained as an actor at the Central School of Speech
and Drama (London). Subsequent acting experience includes: The Tempest, Maydays, Lear; Macbeth, Cyrano
de Bergerac, The Roaring Girl, Peer Gym and The Taming of The Shrew (all Royal Shakespeare Company,
including European and USA Tours); Death ofA Salesman and A Midsummer Night’s Dream (both Royal
Exchange Theatre, Manchester); The Royal Hunt of the Sun (Compass Theatre, UK tour); and numerous
one - man shows, including Out Loud (Granada Television), Hawk Moon (UK and USA tours), Into Darkness
and Aye, Shakespeare! (both USA). As a Staff Director at Britain’s National Theatre, he worked on King
Lear (with Sir Anthony Hopkins, directed by David Hare), Entertaining Strangers (with Dame Judi Dench)
and The Tempest, The Winters Tale and Cymbeline (all directed by Sir Peter Hall). Subsequent directing
experience includes: award-winning productions of Private Wars and Strange Snow (both London);
Comedians and Amadeus (both Compass Theatre, UK tours); Richard 222 (USA); and extensive work in
British prisons as Artistic Director of Kestrel Theatre Company, including Bullfrog (a specially commissioned
short ﬁlm for Carlton Television). His work with prisoners in Northern Ireland was recognised by an award
from the Butler Trust, and was the subject of the BBC Television documentary, Act of Faith. During the
1990s, he returned to Oxford University to complete a doctorate on the practical interpretation of Shakespeare.
As a freelance Shakespeare specialist teacher and consultant, his extensive work in Britain and abroad
includes : annual workshops (by invitation) for the Royal Shakespeare Company; work as Associate Director
for the Marin Shakespeare Company, and for the Shakespeare Theatres Association of America (both

USA); and special text and dramaturgical work on As You Like It and King Lear (with Sir Tom Courtenay)
for the Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester. He regularly teaches and directs Shakespeare in some of

Britain’s leading drama schools, including The Central School of Speech and Drama, and The Welsh
College of Music and Drama, where he is an Associate Director. He has also taught, given seminars and
lectured on Shakespeare in Oxford University, in Switzerland, and in the USA. His published work includes
contributing chapters to the latest edition of Shakespeare : His World And His Work (Scribner’s) and to
Lear From Study To Stage (Associated Universities Press). For his work on the texts of King Lear; he
received the Fredson Bowers Memorial Prize for international scholarship. He ﬁrst visited National School
of Drama to give classes last year, and is delighted to be returning now to direct a full production.

