"च्चास्कादृज्जिच्चारैरिष्ण
DIRECTOR’S NOTE

When the National School of Drama invited me to return to Delhi to direct a Shakespeare of my
choice. a number of texts came to mind. With a British director and an Indian cast working together on a
Hindi translation, the project already involved the coming together of differing backgrounds and traditions.
Might if be possible somehow to exploit this, whether thematically or stylistically, within the production
itself? So I looked for a text that might end itself to such a meeting of East and West—perhaps one that
involved worlds or societies depicted as alternatives, or even in collision with one another.” Antony and
Cleopatra perhaps. in which the austere, political world of Rome is set against the more sensual world of
Egypt? Or “As You Like It”, in which the main protagonists escape from the repression of Duke Frederick’s
court to the less self—conscious environment of Arden? Or “Troilus and Cressida’, in which the fading,
classical heroism of Hector and the Trojans is challenged by the more cynical pragmatism of the Greeks?
Or “The Winter’s Tale”, which moves between Sicily and Bohemia? Or perhaps, given the history of
Anglo-Indian relations, a play where colonial references might be incorporated into the design? “The
Tempest, ” perhaps? Or “Much Ado About Nothing, ” with its clear social division between a semi-military
governing class, and the local population? But of all the available options, “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
seemed to me to provide the most intriguing set of possibilities. Here too, there was a class division such as
that in “Much Ado About Nothing. ” But there was also the extra dimension offered by the fairy world of
Oberon, Titania, and Puck, which transcended any notion of East and West, demanding something more
universal. Once I had decided that this was the play to do, and also to design the production myself, the
question of how to portray the fairy world became my main preoccupation. Rather than simply impose my
own vision, I invited the actors to make their own suggestions, before we began our rehearsals of the script.
These were wonderfully varied and inventive, and not only included ideas about how the fairies might
look, but also how they might sound, and indeed move. One even suggested an ingenious use of puppetsbut I had at least sixteen actors to cast! So what you are about to see is the expression not only of a
director’s vision, but also of the actors’ creativity—as all good theatre ought to be. It has certainly been a

demanding project, not least for me, as it is the ﬁrst time that I have directed a full production in a foreign
language. But I have hugely enjoyed working with the cast, and have learned a great deal from them. As
an

actor and as a teacher, I have worked more on “A Midsummer Night ’s Dream ” than on any other Shakespeare
play, and I thought that I knew it well. But the students here have shown me that there is much more
to it,
and that it is far richer and more complex than I realised. I thank them, and I also thank the
National School
of Drama for giving me this opportunity. Thanks also to Ram Gopal Bajaj for his personal
support, and for
supplementing an already excellent translation for the purposes of this production. Thanks
to Bhaskar
Chandavarkar for the music, to Avtar Sahni for the Lighting design and to all the technical
and backstage
departments of the National School of Drama for their patience and wholehearted
support. It only remains
for me to hope that our production does justice to their efforts, and that you enjoy watching
it a half as much

as I have enjoyed working on it.
Rob Clare

