KUSAMA - SALHES
BACK - GROUND
‘Raja Salhesa' is an emient and important among the seven major folklores of Mithila. The protagonist ofthe Mahagatha is a benovalent king, always
ready to help the people in distress and grief and by now he is being worshipped
as a ‘ Man God', there is a Gahavar (place of worship) associated with Salhes
in most of the village of Mithila.
The Mahagatha is divided into four parts called ‘ Kila's' namely ‘ Mahisautha
kila', Pakaria Kila', _‘l3aghagarh Kila' and ‘Yogini kila',
The Mahagatha has attracted the writers and we have a novel (by
Manipadma) an Epic (by Matinath Mishra) three plays (one each by Rohini
Raman Jha, Narendra and Mahendra Malangia) and two short plays (by
Manipadama and Prof. profulla Kumar Singh ‘Maun'~). The play ‘KusamaSalhes" is the latest.,There is a tradition of presenting ofthe Mahagatha among
masses. Firstly, solo recital with the help of an musical instrument called'
Aruna' and secondly the theatrical presentation called; ‘ NAACH' based on any
‘Kila' or episode of the ‘Kila'. By now the solo recital has become extinct but
the theatrical presentation is being practiced throughout rural areas of Mithila.
‘ NAACH' Saturated with both ‘ Bhava' & ‘ Rasa' is a special and own folk
theatre of Mithila. The divises being used in this form make it the successor of
the famous ‘ Kirtania Drama' ( 1 3th to 1 9th. Century) of Mithila. With it's peculiar
formative and structural design, rhythm, texture, energy, moVerizient and
music ‘NAACH' opens the gate of the great possibilities which may lead the
Maithili Theatre towards achieving its' ownness with the projection and
furtherance of its cultural identity
The Play

The Story-line of the play ‘Kusama—Salhesaj is drawn from the
‘Mahisautha Kila‘ and the ‘yogini Kila‘ of the Mahagath ' . With the help of the
formative/structural designs of ‘NAACH' as well as Ki ania-Drama' the play
develops through the lateral refrences of the contemporary realities. At one
hand, the play explores and utilises the social and theatrical levels and layers
of the language. On the other hand it deals with the multidimensional texture,
rhythm and pace created by the presence of para-physical, super natural and
sur-realistic events, characters and/or references. Through these devices, the
play develops to transmit the idea and value which projects the basic character
of both the ३.३ Mahagatha' and the culture of Mithila.

PRESENTATION
The Project is committed to the theatre form NAACH' and the presentation in inspired by it. With this the line and colour schemes the peculiar
rhythm, use of space, momentum, pace and energy of one of the Schools of
Mithila Painting has been bracketed. Thus the stylistic approach of the
presentation is improvised version of ‘NAACH' and the aforesaid School of
Mithila paintings.

