\ank presents
its 69th production
Asghar Wajahat’s
powerful Human Drama

,

JlS LAHORE NAHIN DEKHYA ॰ ० r

a synopsis
/

.
i
,
_
The lndian partition of 1947 and its fall out haunt both the countries and communities ३ o tnis date. And Jis Lahore
Nahin Dekhya. . . .. is both an [emotional story from those times as well as a strong comment on the then prevelant

sociopolitical scene.Sikandar Mirza migrates to Pakistan , and is allotted a Haweli by the custodian. He and his family

are shocked to find the old Hindu landlady Ratan ki Maa - still in the house, who didn't leave for lndia like many others
did. A victim of hate, violeneé and tragedy, she had lost eveything but not the ability to give love and affection. The
story charts the relationship of Ratan ki Maa with the Mirza family at one level. At another level, the story shows us
how‘ goons try to use religeon against Ratan ki Maa for ulterior motives. How priests are wooed to get legitimacy for
l

their intentions and actions.

l

i
/

८

One day the old lady dies, and this is when the narrative reaches its climax demonstrating the clash of greed
and fundamentalism versus sanity and love for fellow human beings.

ABOUT us

\

/

Ank repertory is 40 member strong and is headed by Mr. Dines'h Thakur who has completed 38 years of
acting and direction in theatre. Theatre has always been a source respite and rejuvenation to audience and '
performer alike. However, Ank believes that for society, it is also a custodian of values and a statement of
cultural individuality. Its serious work and \comes with the responsibity of providing quality. Having come into

being in 1976 and picked up momentum in 1.978 with the emergence of Prithvi theatre and with the
unforgettable encouragement from the Late Jennifer Kapoor and Shri Shashi Kapoor, Ank today has one of
the largest bodies of work in Hindi with approximately 5000 shows of 68’ piays all over the country and

.- “

ticket-buying Hindi theatre audience/After 26 years, Ank's repetoire has run the entire gamut, original works

,_ ,

abroad. Starting with almost non-existent Hindi theatre audiences, Ank played a major part in creating a regular

in Hiddi and the best from national Kand international theatre. From thought~provoking and serious to tragical,

from court-room dramas and the hilarious to the deeply comical and outright f/arcical.Ank has at any point
of time not less than 12 plays ready to be performed what is lacking are theatre dates!

