T H E P LOT
l. i. The play opens at midnight on the Castle battlernents at Elsinore
when the sentry is being relieved. Marcellus brings the sceptical Horatio
to witness apparition of the King which has twice been seen. The Ghost
duly appears but stalks away when questioned. Horatio tells Marcellus
that young Fortinbras of Norway, son of the Fortinbras slain by old
Hamlet, is threatening war to recover the lands lost by his father. The
Ghost reappears but vanishes on the crowing of the

cock.

Horatio

decides to impart what they have seen to the Prince.
I. ii. Claudius in full Council sends Ambassadors to Norway, Uncle

of Fortinbras, to suppress the threat of war. He gives permission to Laertes
to return to France and then turns to the silent and melancholy Hamlet.
With the Queen's aid he persuades him not to return to the University of
Wittenberg. The Council breaks up and Hamlet is left alone. In his ﬁrst
soliloquy he expresses his disgust at his mother's hastly and adulterous
marriage to his father’s brother. Horatio enters and tells him what they
have seen on the battlernents. Hamlet decides to keep watch himself
that very night.
|. iii. Laertes bids farewell to his sister and Polonius speeds him

on his way with further advice and then warns Ophelia as her brother
had done, to distrust Hamlet’s love-making and to keep him at a
distance.
I. iv., v. Hamlet watches for the Ghost with Marcellus and Horatio,
and, despite their entreaties, follows him to a more removed ground alone.
The Ghost divulges that Claudius, after seducing Gertrude, had murdered
him by pouring poison in the ear. Hamlet swears revenge and, when the
Ghost has vanished and his companions return, he makes them swear
an oath of secrecy. He warns them that he may perchance thereafter
‘put an antic disposition on’ and begs them not to show any consciousness of the cause. They swear a third time and Hamlet bids the Ghost
rest in peace.

(This is the end of the First Movement.)

H. i. Polonius dispatches the old servant, Reynaldo, to Paris to see

bow Laertes is behaving himself, Ophelia enters, deeply agitated, and
tells her father that Hamlet had come to her dishevelled and pale and to
all appearance out of his wits, as if to take a long and silent farewell of
her. Polonius believes that neglected love has driven him mad and hastens
to inform the King.
ll. ii. Claudius and Gertrude
welcome Hamlet's school-fellows,
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, and entreat them to discover what is amiss

with the Prince.

The Ambassadors return from Norway with the good

news that Fortinbras, rebuked by old Norway, has agreed to keep the
peace with Denmark and to lead his levies against Poland, requesting at
the same time leave to pass through Claudius’s dorninions. Polonius

expounds to the King and Queen his theory that Hamlet’s madness comes
from neglected love, showing them a letter from the Prince to Ophelia.
They decide to put this to the poof by arranging an encounter which they
can observe unseen from behind the arras. Hamlet enters and Polonius

dismisses the King and Queen so that he may accost him; but the Prince

