assuming his antic disposition outwits him. To Rosencrantz and Guildened
eat
p-s
dee
a
s
eal
rev
y
onl
let
Ham
,
ves
lea
us
oni
Pol
as
er
ent
who
stern,
melancholy, which they are inclined to ascribe to disappornted ambition.

They speak to him of the arrival of the travelling players who enter soon
after. At Hamlet's request the ﬁrst player recites a speech from 'an old
play in which Aeneas speaks of the fall of Troy, the murder of P_riarn and
the grief of Hecuba, ‘the rnobled queen’. The player is so carried away
that the tears stand in his eyes. In the soliloquy which closes the scene
Hamlet med itates on the ﬁctive passion of the player and his own failure
to feel and act in the face of a terrible reality. He resolves to test the
King's guilt by the public performance of a play whose plot is something
like the murder of his father.
lll. i. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern report that they cannot discover
the cause of Hamlet’s melancholic madness and tell the King and Queen
of his excitement over the arrival of the players and of his desire for them
to perform before the court. Polonius and the King then put their eavesdropping plot into effect and direct Ophelia to walk in the hall reading on
a book of devotion. Polonius’s remark that thus men often sugar over
evil with pious action is as a lash to the King's guilty conscience. When
the stage is empty Hamlet enters and meditates on suicide and the afterlife. Ophelia enters and asks Hamlet to take back his love tokens. He
denies ever having loved her and bids her forget him. Suddenly he
guesses that they are being Spied upon and he bursts out into a passionate railing against her and wornankind, ordering her to renounce the
world and go into a nunnery.

When he rushes from her, the King and

Polonius come from behind the arras. Claudius realizes that the cause
of his madness lies deeper than love and resolves to send him to England
on a mission. Polonius advises that Gertrude should send for Hamlet
after the play and entreat him to show his cause of grief while he once
more plays the eavesdropper. The King agrees.
lll. ii. Hamlet advises the players on the art of acting, commending
naturalness and restraint. They go to make ready for the play. Hamlet
calles Horatio and expresses his trust in his firm character and equable
temper. The court enter for the play. Hamlet again assumes his antic
disposition and jests coarsely and cruelly at Ophelia’s expense. The
Dumb show takes place in which a King and Queen enter very lovingly.
The King lies down to sleep. A man enters, takes off the crown, kisses
it, and pours poison into the King’s ear. The Queen returns and is
wooed by the poisoner. She accepts his love. Claudius is talking with
the Queen and misses the signiﬁcance of the Dumb show. The play is
then performed, but when Claudius sees the player king poisoned he

realises that Hamlet has discovered his crime. He rises and the play
abruptly ends. Hamlet and Horatio are left alone. But before Hamlet can
conﬁde in Horatio, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern return and say that the
Queen ‘in most great afﬂiction of spirit' has sent for him. Hamlet shows
that he knows them for the spices and flunkies which

they are.

Polonius

also summons him to his mother and receives short shrift from Hamlet
who when he is left alone steels himself ‘to speak daggers' to his mother
‘but use none.’

lll. iii. Claudius, fearing for his safety, orders Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern to get ready to take Hamlet to England. Left alone he tries
to repent but he knows that prayer alone will not bring God's forgiveness.
As he kneels in prayer Hamlet enters on his way to his mother's chamber.

