He draws his sword to avenge murder with

murder, but forebears lest

Claudius's soul may be saved if he is slain at his prayers : he would thus
be baulked of his revenge. He spares him. Claudius's words as he rises
from his knees shows that his prayers has been in vain.

Ill. iv. Polonius hides behind the arras in the Queen’s bedcharnber
and Gertrude receives her son. She starts to rate him, but when he
forces her into a chair she cries for help and the cry is taken up by
Polonius. Hamlet makes a rapid pass through the arras and slays
Polonius, thinking for a moment that it is the King. He is unmoved by
the murder he has committed and accuses Gertrude in burning words of
sexual depravity, forcing her to realize her sharnelessness and inconstancy. The Ghost enters and brieﬂy warns Hamlet not to forget his vow
of vengeance still unperforrned. Gertrude neither sees nor hears the Ghost
and when he has vanished she snatches for a moment at the hope that
Hamlet's accusation has but the ravings of a madman. He convinces her
her of his sanity and her guilt, makes her promise secrecy and reveals
that he is aware that Rosencrantz and Guildenstern will carry sealed
letters with them when they accompany him in virtual banishment to
England. With a last good-night he drags the body of Polonius from the
roonL
IV. i. Gertrude tells the King of the murder of Polonius. He call for
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and tells them to bring Hamlet before him

and to carry the body into the chapel. They must take ship for England
that very night.
lV. ii. Hamlet baits his schoolfellows and runs from them in a sort
of fantastic hide and seek.

lV. iii. Hamlet is brought guarded before the King and bids him a

sardonic farewell. Claudius in a final soliloquy reveals that he
appealed to England to put Hamlet to death.

has

IV. iv. Fortinbras and his army pass over the stage. Hamlet catches
a glimpse of them and asks a Captain what their purpose is. When he
learns that twenty thousand men are making war for a little patch of Polish

ground that ‘hath in it no proﬁt but the name’, he rneditates in soliloquy
on his own failure to act and to revenge his father’s murder and his
mother's dishonour. He vows that henceforth he will be bloody in action.
(With this vow the Second Movement closes.)

IV. v. Hamlet’s murder of Polonius has driven Ophelia out of her
mind and stirred up a rebellious spirit among the people of which Laertes
takes advantage. He breaks into the palace demanding justice and
revenge. Claudius faces him courageously and protests his own inno-

cence.

Ophelia enters with ﬂowers which she gives to her brother and to

the King and Queen, imagining them to be mourners with her at her
father’s grave.

The King draws away Laertes to ‘commune with his grief”

and suppress the seeds of rebellion.

IV. vi. Sailors have brought letters to Horatio and to the King from

Hamlet.

We learn from Horatio's reading of his letter that in a grapple

