with a pirate ship Hamlet got clear of the vessel taking him to England
and that his schoolfellowsI of whom he has much to relate, have continu-

ed their voyage without him.
IV. vii Claudius returns with Laertes and begins to poison his mind
against Hamlet when a Messenger brings Hamlet’s letter announcing his

return. Claudius proposes his plot : Hamlet, emulous of Laertes's
reputation as a duellist, shall be challenged to a rapier match, in which
Laerates by using an unbaited foil may requite his father. Laertes decides
to touch his rapier’s point with poison, and, to make assurance doubly

sure, Claudius will have a poisoned

cup ready when the Prince in the

heat of the action calls for drink.

As their guilty plot is concluded,

Gertrude enters with news of the drowning of Ophelia.
V. i. The grave diggers are digging the grave of Ophelia, who is to
be buried in consecrated ground, although she is thought to have taken her
own life. Hamlet and Haratio enter and watch the grave-digger throwing

up old skulls.

One of these is the skull of Yorick, the jester, who carried

Hamlet on his back as a child.

Hamlet retires.

The funeral

procession approaches and

When the body has been laid in earth Laertes, in an

agony of grief, leaps in after it, calling for vengeance upon the Prince.
Hamlet comes forward to answer the charge and leaps into the grave
himself where they grapple together until the attendants separate them.

Hamlets protests his love for Ophelia with a scathing outburst against
Laertes which as quickly gives way to words of kindness. He hurries
from the grave-yard followed by Horatio.
V. ii. Hamlet tells Horatio of his unsealing of the secret commission

carried by Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, in which Claudius conjured the
King of England to put him to death, and how he has replaced it with a
death warrant upon the pair of them. A court fop enters and invites
Hamlet to fight a wager with Laertes. Hamlet accepts the conditions
and after a moment of rnisgiving shows himself resigned to what—
ever providence may have ordained. On the entry of the full court he
makes a formal apology to Laertes and the duel begins. In the ﬁrst bout
Hamlet scores a hit. Claudius calls for drink and then puts the poison
in the cup and offers it to Hamlet. He puts it by, and scores a hit in the
second bout. Gertrude oﬁers him the cup which he again refuses, and
she herself drinks of it although Claudius forbids her. The third bout is
a. draw, but when Hamlet is off his guard Laertes wound him.

There is

scuffle and they exchange rapiers. Hamlet wounds Laertes deeply and
the Queen as she falls cries out that she has been poisoned. Laertes
reveals the plot upon Hamlet’s life. Hamlet stabs Claudius and forces him
to drink the poisoned cup, but he is himself mortally wounded. He
prevents Horatio drinking of the cup and Osric announces the warlike

approach of Fortinbras coming in conquest from Poland.

The drum is

heard and, as Hamlet dies, Fortinbras and the English Ambassadors enter.

Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead by Hamlet’s commandment.
Fortibras will succeed to the throne of Denmark, ﬁrst learning from
Horatio the details of the tragic story.

a soldier and guns ﬁre a salute.

Four captains bear oﬁ Hamlet like

