EVALUATION OF SAIYID
WIZARA'I‘

The inability of the Saiyids to

consolidate their power may be
ascribed largely to the opposition
offered by an important section of

, and Bahadur Shah, and the Rajpﬁts,
Marathas, etc. But it suited their

opponents to misrepresent the policy
of the Saiyids, and to give to the

the old nobles belonging to the time
of Aurangzib and Bahadur Shah.
This section looked upon the Saiyids

anti-Saiyid struggle the outer

as upstarts, and was not prepared to

Politically, the biggest error of the
Saiyids was the deposition of Farrukh

be over-shadowed by them in

conducting the affairs of the empire.
The leading role in the opposition
to the Saiyids was played by a small

but powerful group centring round
Nizam-ul-Mulk and M. Amin Khan.
These capable and ambitious nobles

aspired to eXercise supreme power in
the state. They also disliked the
Saiyid policy of making large
concessions to the Réjpﬁts, Marathas
etc. , and to the Hindu opinion
generally, regarding it as being a
departure from the policies of
Aurangzib, contrary to the lslamic

character of a struggle between the
Mughals and the Hindustanis.

Siyar. The question has been argued
on a moral plane-whether “the
Saiyids were disloyal to their king”,
or whether they “treated him as the
case required”. Irvine has opined

that the deposition of Farrukh Siyar

was, perhaps, unavoidable “but the.
way of doing what had become
almost a necessity was unduly harsh
and the taking of the captive’s life
was an extremity entirely uncalled
for’ ’ .

This really is to beg the question.
The execution of F'arrukh Siyar,

character of the state and against the

though performed with unnecessary

best interests of the empire and the
monarchy.
The Saiyids attempted to associate
in the higher ranks of the nobility
all sections including the various
ethnic groups at the court, the nobles
belonging to the time of Aurangzib

cruelty, was alogically unavoidable
corollary of his deposition. As long
as he was alive, the Saiyids could not
feel secure. What the Saiyids had to
decide was whether they could realize

their objectives without deposing
Farrukh Siyar. ‘Abdullah Khan was

