apparently of the opinion that they
could. He felt that there was no harm

He desired that Nizam-ul-Mulk,

in leaving the sikkah and the khulbah

destroyed at the earliest possible
moment, or at any rate, rendered
incapable of any mischief. This
divergence of outlook and approach
accentuated the differences which
had already appeared between the
two brothers over the division of
power and the Spoils of victory.

in Farrukh Siyar’s name as long as
all the important ofﬁces remained in
their control, and were ﬁlled by their
nominees. The deposition, for which
Husain Ali seems to bear the primary
responsibility, created apprehensions

in the minds of many nobles about
the ultimate intentions of the Saiyids,
and alienated their own supporters
who were not prepared for such
extreme measures. Considering the
weakness of their actual position, it

was a political blunder, for it enabled

M. Amin Khan, etc. should be ३

The Saiyids did not enjoy supreme

power long enough for a proper
estimate being made of their

administrative capabilities. The spirit
of party strife which kept growing
from the accession of Farrukh Siyar

paralysed the administration, and

their rivals, the ‘Chin’ group, to
appear as the champions of the
Timurid monarchy and to utilise the

“everywhere zamindars and
malcontents raised their head.”

public revulsion against the Saiyids

Established rules of business were

for their own ends.
Secondly, the Saiyids over-

ignored. The dependence of the
Saiyids on subordinates like Ratan

estimated their strength and
resources, disagreed among themselves about the policy to be pursued
towards the powerful ‘Chin’ group,

Chand made them unpopular, and

the ultimately precipitated a
premature showdown with it. It
would appear that ‘Abdullah Khan

understood better than Husain ‘Ali
the real weakness of their position.
By patient and careful diplomacy,
he had succeeded in detaching
M. Amin Khan, Nizam-ul-Mulk and
Sarbuland Khan from Farrukh Siyar.

, He was keen that the understanding
with these nobles should be maintained and, if possible, strengthened.
On the other hand, Husain Ali who

was inclined to be haughty and overbearing, apparently held the view
that such a policy was unworkable.

reﬂected unfavourably on their
administrative competence. The
responsibility for bribe-taking and
harshness in revenue-farming is

ascribad to these subordinates. On
the other hand, it is not denied even
by those writers who are strongly

opposed to the Saiyids that they
strove hard to maintain law and
order, and that their military
reputation and capabilities prevented
a ﬁnal break-down of the
administration.
By concentrating power in their
hands, the Saiyids sought to save
the Mughal empire from the process
of disintegration which had inevitably
followed the accession of a weak or
incompetent king. Simultaneously,

