Adaptation

Vivek Mishra

the Uttam Nagar locality. He has directed 8 full length plays and
has translated the Caucasian Chalk Circle, The Rise and Fall ofthe

Vivek Mishra is a graduate from Delhi
City ofMahagony, Lux in Teneberis, Bagad Bil/0,, Three Sisters,A Doll's
University and from the National School
House, He Who Gets Slapped, End Games, In The jungle of Cities,
of Drama with a specialization in acting

Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe, etc. He was also a part of Tim
(l99l). He has worked in the NSD
Supple's production of a Midsummer Night's Dream, which
_

.

repertory company as an artist for 3
traveled to many places across the world.

years. He is the founder of a theatre group 'Chaya Chhat Manch',
which performs on terraces of private residences in and around

Acting Input

Adil Hussain

Belgium and India. From 1997 till 2001, he also served as a
visiting faculty member at the Drama School in Amsterdam and

A graduate of National School of Drama,

the Royal Conservatory of Performing Arts in The Hague. From
specializing in acting in 1993, Mr. Hussain
2001 till now he has been regularly teaching acting as a visiting
received the Charles Wallace Trust
faculty member at the National School of Drama, New Delhi and
Scholarship to study acting in England at
from 2007 onwards at the Film and Television Institute of India
.

the Drama Studio, London. In 1997, he was

in Pune. He acted in lshqiya and played the lead role as Jasoos
invited to act as the lead actor in the production Moeder India
Vijay for Doordarshan, as Othello in A&B motion pictures film
by the Amsterdam based international Danstheater Company
production of In Othello, lead roles in films such as Iti Srikanto
that toured for eighteen months. In 1999, he acted as Othello in

and in the play Orientations (Dir Michael Walling) by the Border
the acclaimed production of Othello: A Play in Black and White
Crossing Theatre Company in London.
which was awarded the Edinburgh Fringe First Award. He is still
touring with this production and has performed over the last 10

»

years in Zimbabwe, France, England, Egypt, Germany, Holland,

