KHEL

GH AR

"I‘uttu’ my previous play was based on a mentally retarded Child,

The seed thus

sown made me search further into the vagaries of the human mind and thus germinated into
another play this time on an emotionally disturbad mind.
It was while reading “Dibs : in search of self” a novellet, by an American Child
Therapist Virginia Axline that I ﬁnally found the basis for my play. A poigana ntl y told story
of an emotionally unbalanced child the hairllne difference between a genius and. a mentally

retarded individual most effectively brought out.

The accent being on what treatment is

meted out on this very delicate brain.

Guddo is my Dibs. A highly intelligent child of successful ambitious parents. She
is a total misﬁt-at home, in school, and in her own mind. Her father is a scientist, her
mother a renowned artist and she a confused mind, oscillating between a very normal
craving for love and understanding, and in trying to carve out a niche for herself in her
parent’s over crowded over ambititions plans for themselves. A highly sensitive, intelligent
near genius brain is thus attributed with a very mundane adjective-retraded.

The play opens when the child is about eight years old. Having explored all
avenues Mr. & Mrs. seth ﬁnally settle on an ordinary school teacher, Mrs Mohan who is at
present concentrating solely on emotionally disturbed children. It is through Mrs. Mohan
that the parents learn the meaning of the words love and understanding

During the designing of this play. ‘Somebody’s Else’s kids’ by Tory Hayden also
s
provided me with enough help in going through with idea. I must also thank 'I'amasha’
members who courageously provided me with an expose’ into their own childhood and
present experiences, which had hints of Guddo in them.
I must thank the parents of my ‘Guddo’ Mr. Anil Mohan & Mrs. Asha Mohan and
ofcourse my Guddo Aparna Mohan for making this play possible.

min in स्ट:
~

ﬂ ष्टऐहुँश्न \ "९१शा

स-ब-ब-म — क्या

3

J:—
‘U

,३८३.

-i

