TL/‘ZI‘KS’ JIM/Q“) ‘IHEJZI‘IRES‘
While many city-states in mainhzndgreece, in flsia and in otherparts of the Mediterranean area had
strong theatre cuhtures, the only plays that have survivedcomefromflthens. (I’here werefour major and
one minor ﬂ thenian playwrights: ﬂeschylus, Sophocles and furipides wrote tragedies; flristophanes,
andsome time later; fMenander; wrote comedies.

ﬂTSCH‘YL‘US was horn in the 5205. Hisﬁrst trilogy, a group of 3 plays, was produced in 499 6 . C.
Over a v forking life qf43 years, he createdmore than 60 tragedies. Only 7 remain, including the one and
only complete trilogy called ‘Ihe Oresteia. ‘Ihe trilogy consists of the ﬂlgamemnon, (The Chorphoroi and
The Eumenides. The trilogy wasfirst performedin a single day in 4586. C.
SOQHOCL‘ES was horn in the 4905 andhisﬁrst tragedies were performedin 468 031C over the next 50
years, he wrote about 90 phzys. He wasfor some time in charge of the fl thenian army. He was also in
charge of the city ’s religion. He was a successful husinessman, won more prizes than any other
playwright and died rich and happy at the age of 90. His hest—hnown plays are King Oedipus and
fl ntigone.

E@911le was horn in the 480s andhisﬁrst play wasperformedin 455 6. C, theyear after the death
ofﬂeschylus. He wrote ahout 65 tragedies, (17 remain) over a periodof49 years. He diedafew months
before Sophocles. He was a controversialplaywright who was often criticalofthe gods. He was not very
popular. His hest-hnown plays are The (Bacchae, ‘Ihe rTrojan Women andMedea.

ﬁRIS‘IOQUf/YIWES‘ was horn in 448 (BC. He wrote 40 plays of which 11 have survived His most
' opularphzy is Lysistrata, the story ofa woman who persuades the women offlthens andSparta to go
rn a sex—strike in order to stop the war hetween the two cities.

21 thenian tragedy dealt with political, ethical: moral, religious and philosophic issues of gravest
importance. Everyone knew the stories.
\

(Theatres were Built to seat the entire popuhztion ofa city -— andeveryhody went. fltfirst, the theatres
amountedto little more than a levelarea at the 6ase ofa hillside or a cliff, which hadheen conveniently
hollowed 6y natural erosion into a semi-circuhzr shape; hut hy the 4th century stone seating was
provided on these slopes. £1 central Mach of seats at the front, originally occupied hy the priests of
democratic.
@ionysus, was reserved for the (VFPs, hut otherwise the seating arrangements were

Entrance was originally free. (Poorer citizens paid nothing, even after the introduction offees, and
attendance at the theatre was an admissihle reason to reclaim a day ’s lost wages. flfew bronze “tichets”
have survived

i

