संगीत निदेशक

Music Director
Born in 1957 in Rapatgunj, Chattisgarh,
Shri Zafar Sanjari spent his early years in a Parsi
theatre company called “Bhopal Theatre” where
his parents and maternal grandfather also used
to work.
He entered the world of music by playing the
ghada and over time progressed to playing a
range of other instruments including the dholak,
naal, tabla, pakhawaj, mridang, dhaf, manjira

and harmonium.

जन्म 1957, रेंपटगंज, छत्तीसगढा

स्व. मदन लाल कपूर (श्री रंजीत कपूर 6% पिता) की पारसी
थियेटर कम्पनी"गोपाल थियटर 1% बचपन बीताI यहॉ इनके
नाना और माता-पिता भी काम क्रिया करते थे।
बाल कलाकार 6% रूप 1% मंच पर कब उतार दिये गए इन्हें

याद नहींI

संगीत की शुरूआत घड़ा बजाने 1% हुई तो ढोलक, नाल,
तबला, पखावज, मृदंग, ढफ़, मजीरा और हारमोनियम तक
पहुंचे गईI
प्रारंभिक पकाई कम्पनी 6% त९तृस्कृल 1% I

1984 1%, जैस्ने-तैस्ने ओपन स्कूल (दिल्ली) 1% मैट्रिक की

Although his early education took place in the
Company’s tent—school, in 1984 he passed his
metric examination from the Open School,
New Delhi.
In 1 97 6—7 7, with the help of Shri Ranjit Kapoor,
Shri Sanj ari joined Habib 'I‘anvir’s Naya Theatre,
and from here went on to play a host of roles in
productions of the National School of Drama,
Shri Ram Centre Repertory, L'I‘G Repertory,

Doordarshan and radio. He also acted in ﬁlms
like Aadhaar'shila, Jaane Bhi do Yaaron and

Ek Ruka Hua Faisla. Shri Sanjari has also
completed a seven year training in playing the
tabla, from the Shri Ram Bhartiya Kala Kendra.
During this time, by virtue of being ﬁrst in the

परीक्षा उत्तीर्ण की I
merit list each year, he received a scholarship

1 976-77 1% श्री रंजीत कपूर 6% माध्यम 1% श्री हबीब तनवीर
साहब 6%,

नया थियेटर 1% प्रवेशा

इसके वाद

राष्टीय नाट्य विद्यालय रंपमडल, एप्त.आर.प्ती.,
एल.टी.जीं.,डी.ए.टी, रेडियो, दूरदर्शन तथा फिल्मों,
आधारशिला, जाने भी दो यारों, एक रूका हुआ फैसला
आदि 1% छोटे-वहि किरदार निभाने का सिलसिला" इसी
दोरान श्री राम भारतीय पीता केन्द्र 1% एकल-तलना-वाहन

का विधिवत प्रशिक्षणा हर वर्ष मैरिट लिस्ट 1% अव्वल,
साहित्य कला परिषद से छात्रवृत्ति मिली और सात बर्ष पूरे
किए।

लेखन में रूचि 6% कारण डा. नरेन्द्र कोहली 6% उपन्यास,
।भि१दृदर्य पर आघृत"संधर्घ की ओरें'फिष्किर्धा तथा अगस्ता…
कथा नाट्य रूपान्तरण किया, जोकि प्रकाशित होकर मंबस्थ
भी हुएI
इन दिनों मुम्बई में रह कर नाटक, एलबम, सीरियल तथा
फिल्मी 1% संगीत निर्देशनI

from the Sahitya Kala Parishad.
His interest in writing led him to adapt Sangr'ash
lei Aur, Agust Katha and Krishikandha, based
on the works of Dr. Narendra Kohli. These
adaptations were later published and performed
on stage.

Shri Zafar Sanjari currently lives in Mumbai. He
works as an independent music director for
ﬁlms, television, theatre productions and music

albums.

