[VJ/7v 27o

'ANDHA YUG' As SEEN BY us “P.”

jourThe play was written in Hindi by noted poet, playwrite and
tune
nalist, Dr.‘Dharamvir Bharti in September, 1954 : a most oppor
memory
time perhaps, as we see it now, India was quite fresh with its
time for
of Independence. It was a period of self intrOSpection: a
evaluating the true meaning of Freedom at personal front for every
individual of a Nation which was into making and carving out an ideal
0 HA
presents and fuaure for itself of the ruins of its chaotic past. 'AN

But
YUG’ of Dr. Bharti was perhaps just a motiff of this process.
the
fortunatelylunFortunately there are stil grounds to explore futher
ce at one
persistent 'Darkness' even after 47 years of our Independen

level and Globalization another level.

'ASMITA' sees various compelling reasons to stage 'ANDHA
g of
YUG'. It is the part of a Process which began with the stagin
Caligula’s quest for truth and caught up with 'Tughlaq’ from a point
at 'AN D HA
onwards, where Caligula had lost his track and halts

YUG' (Pun intended), when Tughlaq's failute and perhaps his subse

quent realization of meaning in life had left a few cues. 'ANDHA YUG’
is painfully a resultant but enlighting saga of those. who after a SocioEconomic and Political struggle have survived to face the bare truth

of life : A truth of their own independent interpretations in the backdrop of one ultimate truth subjugated within their internal self perhaps
or even quite explicitly apparent but beyond their comprehension.
We want to do it in order to break once again the myth of outer
grandeur attached with its powerful content due to its various earlier

presentations by likes of Satya Dev Dubev (Bombay. 1962), Ebrahim

Alqazi (Talkatora Garden and Purana Qila in Delhi) and a few years
back by Ram Gopal Bajai

But we certainly do not intend to experi-

ment with it like Ravi Basvani either with guns and grenades.
We follow the dictum that a creative person while being a part of
his time also moves simultaneously ahead with a traget of going
are
across different periods. The incidents and characters in the play

related with the Mahabharat and Dwapar Yug but we feel in them the
pulse of our contemporary society.

Recreation of popular stories is

