- है एं ""f
Similarly in case of dancing, we
the oldest civilisation in the world, we
have distingmshed different forms such
are exposed today to the confrontaas OdlSSi, Bharatanatyam Kathaka,
tions
as to “where is the Indian play
. {Kathakalij Manipurij Kuchipudi etc.
Presented in an Indian Manner.”
beside numerous folk and tribal
Where Is the real Natak'a or any
forms.

But is the field of drama, why

Rupaka
matter,

are we not following any Principles
at all and go on naming ev ry play
or drama only as a ataka ‘2 Natya—
Sastra, atrcatise on Indian dramamay .18
hardly referred by the
dramatists today although so dearly

or

Uparupaka

for

that

Are we really advancing in the
Sphere
of
dramatics in India or
making a mess of the whole thing, a
nadr cf confusion.
"i only whish that the exact distinction on the Indian forms of plays;
followed by the Indian dancers.
the ,Uparupak‘a,
While Music and Dance form part the Rupaka and
of Dramatics, Dratnatics never form should first be taught to our students
a part of music or dance, any wher‘: .
of dramatisy so that they distinguish
And we hath: not stopped there which is really Natalia or any other
but have gone a step backward even lturaka, They should also be taught
With
our
to denounce some as folk play, I am the theory of Rae. If
indian Standards we try to asses the
using the word densunce because I
have. noticed the
stepmotherly rmrits of the thousands of so—called
attitude towards the so-vtalled folk Natakas of today very fondly called
plays.
the Adhunika Natakas, we will find
In dance we categorize folk dance that almost all of these works will
not really fall into the category of
and classical dance etc,
In the field of drama, do we mean Nataka atal1~ Many of the 50-0 lled
to convince that tho<e whom we did Nataka writers will suddenly be disnot categorize as folk plays are (इछा/८1३९6 not to have written any
classical plays ? Weil‘, I think we are N a? aka at all but some other Rupaka
- rnak;r-.g a laughing stock of ourselves or Uparupakas.
and sooner it is eradicated will be
We have done enough damage by
row to the field of Indian drama by
better for Us and our COL ntryt
In India, more and more institutes imitating western methods but sooner
of learning for dance“,
music and it is cheaked is better, The dram 1
drama are coming up eve; y where schools should be the torclibgarers
bringing out many students every tC bring re-orientation to our sphere
)ear
While sttsden s of dance and of dracnatid. West rn dramas and
music are being taught about indian (:riental dramas should be Very
dance and Indian music; how many clearly identified .as that of music
drama Schools are training in the and dance. Our ignorance may be
real Indian, drama 12 Except few bliss for us now but if we donot
theoretical lessons in the history of make amends now, are wise successors
Indian drama and bibliograply, the Will simply term us as hypocrats in
emphasis is always on the western the ensuing p0 terity, '
form of writting, production methods
All plays are not Natakas, not
etc, So it is no wonder that having at all.
,दृ८ ८८८

