v

_

3l

About the Group
The year was 1979, when a small effort was launched in the field of children's [
theatre, and was appropriately christened Umang, by its charioteer, Ms. Rekha l”
Jain. She evolved the concept of neighborhood theatre where children with स्ताग्रेछु
… economic and social backgrounds from the locality came together to put up a pl
She used a combination of dance, music and theatre in ‘each of her plays to prov i ¸ e
an opportunity and to discover the creative talents of each child.
Every summer, Umang organizes a workshop including improvisation, story
telling sessions, painting competitions, mask making, singing and dancing that

culminate in a play. Eminent directors and well known personalities like B.V.
Karanth, Birju Maharaj and others have been associated with Umang. Umang's है
plays are evolved during the workshops and they plays have a moral and social 1
value and often serve as a message for the times that we live in. From highlighting
the universal terror of maths in Ganit Des/i to bravery of young children in Baharﬁyr
Chunnu, the ignorance and lack of respect for Indian classical music in Sa Re Ga लि

.

_ , . रे g
'

_I _
. ‘ '. .

Ma Tak Dhina Dhin
- मड-दु-छोले-मअ-दूमा.--.-".:.-.. ' to the adaptation of j
popular folk tales like l
the Red Riding Hood-1 "
Chhot/ Laa/ Koshi,
Puss in Boots— Bil/i ,7 y

Ka .Khe/. . . .the list is: दृ

endless.

३'

- Umang has constituted

the Rekha Jain Bal (
o Rang Samman, an

award for outstanding
- contribution in‘thei है

field of children’s । ।
theatre, which wa?y 5'
given to Harikrish a s
Devsare and Bans, l
Kaul in its first year
l
in 2010.
' l
l

Khe/ Khi/ono Ka Sansaar is about the world of toys. A shopkeeper sells his;

—

३ As a tribute to the memory of Rekha lain Umang presents excerpts from three
plays originally written, designed & directed by her- Khe/ Kiri/anon Ka Sansaar,
Gan/t Des/7 & Swadheent’a Sang/am. Through these three plays one can notice"
the various aspects of her work-be _it the understanding of the world of children,
the idea of combining theatre with education or the desire .for increasing the
knowledge about our history in the present generation.

V- . १- '

.

-…- ~ -. _.८५ ,r_N

' About the Play - .

‘

_ -. ‘1.._1-

vi-

l

V

toys only to rich and proud customers at high prices, who do not really care
for those toys and does not allow poor boys to touch his toys. The toys stage )
successful protest against this attitude. Gan/t Desh highlights the universal teri‘ror दृ
of maths. Sonu hates maths and she refuses to study the subject. Her parents
मृ
hide everything, which is related to numbers. One night in her dreams sonu visits
a country of numbers. There she discovers a new fascinating world of numbers.

\

Swad/ieerita Sangram is about Indian '5 freedom struggle. The play captures very
simply and theatrically the turning points of the freedom struggle, finally leading to दृ
independence in 1947.
lr i
it

i

