About the Director
Harish Verrna is a multi-talented and a well-accomplished artist. Apart from being a
playwright, director and stage designer, he is a skilled actor, dancer and musician as
well. Born on 3rd December 1969, Sh. Verma started his education in \music at Bal

Bhavan in 1979 and later worked as an instructor at the same institution. He has
learnt kuchipudi dance from the well-known dancer Swapna Sundari for two years
and sitar from Gandharv Mahavidhyalaya. Apart from many places within India like
Jammu-Kashmir, Bangalore, Chennai, Trivendrurn etc, he has travelled to countries

like Russia, Bulgaria and Germany. He has been associated with 'Umang' for the V
last 23 years and has acquired knowledge of various methods of providing theatre
training to children under the tutelage of Srnt. Rekha Jain. He has directed many
plays like lhirt/iankar Mahavir, Rustam Sohraab, Alibaba, Kabu/wa/a, Bai'ju Bawra.
He has been honoured as a music director in the Yuva Mahotsav of Sahitya Kala
Parishad, Delhi. Currently he is acting in a hindi serial 'Chhupa Rustam' and working
as a Drama-teacher at Mahavir Senior Model School.

Rekha Jain
Srnt. Rekha Jain, a senior theatre personality dedicated
to the theatre world for more than sixty years, founder
director of the leading children's theatre group, Urnang,
was born in a conventional family at Agra on September
28, 1924.She started her drama career in 1943 with her
husband Shri Nemichandre Jain- renowned poet & critic,
through a play AntimAbh/lasha, directed by Shri Sharnbhu
Mitra as part of IPTA during the Bengal famine. She
played a key role in dance dramas pertaining to freedom
movements in association with cultural organizations like
the Bangla Cultural Squad and Mumbai’s Central Troupe.
After spending time in Kolkata, Mumbai & Allahabad, she came to Delhi in 1956
and joined " Delhi Children's Theatre." To take care of the creative development
of children of every age and class, she established the children's theatre group
"Umang"‘~in 1979, and has since been organizing children's theatre workshops
in leading cities.Throughout her life Srnt. Jain remained involved with the creation
of a healthy society by involving socially backward children in her work and
productions. She gave a new direction to children's theatre with the help of other
art forms, which not only educated children but also attracted them towards
theatre.
She mostly prepared play scripts on her own while working with children.
Her plays were designed so as to motivate children to express their creative
power and also to help them explore and expand their latent talent. Srnt.lain has
produced more than 1 OO children’s plays in India and abroad and has more than
12 published collections of children's plays to her credit. Her writings on various
subjects including music & dance have been published in various magazines and
broadcast on AIR & television. She has been the recipient of numerous awards
including the prestigious Sangeet Natak Akaderni Award; and the Sahityakar &
Kriti Sarnrnan for her writing awarded by the Delhi Hindi Academy and the Uttar
Pradesh Government. She has also been recognized for her special contribution to
the world of children’s theatre by various reputed institutions like the Sahitya Kala
Parishad, Delhi, Sangeet Natak Akaderni, UP, Delhi Natya Sangh among others.
श्र'

.. .. I .

.

V

f

i

‘I

tip, gt;

L

l). .- \i- )otL/
'

l

.

' “ 1*‘m'ml'1h- (I 5 \

s - w.»-

