DELHI CHILDREN’S THEATRE
ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1984-85
I am herewith presenting a brief account of the activities of Delhi Children's Theatre
during the year 1984-85.
all
In the tragic death of Srnt. Indira Gandhi, we lost our beloved patron who had

along been a guiding star to Delhi Children's Theatre and took keen interest in our Annual
Children's festival pregramrre. lmrnediately after her death, Members of DCT sent condolence messages to Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi and members of the bereaved family.
This voluntary cultural organisation continued to play a vital role in training children
of different schools in India’s capital in creative dramatics, dancing, music, ballet and
group-singing. It has all along tried to maintain a high standard for children's cultural
shows.

As our founder-rnernder and Chairman, Smt. Roma Deb, has said : “A tiny acorn
which was planted in 1954, as an experimental group venture, towards creative Drarnatics
- over
दू with a few children of the age-group of seven and twelve years, has now developed

the years into a mighty tree”.

Pandit
With a humble beginning under the inspiration of our first Prime Minister
has spread its
Jawaharlal Nehru, Delhi Children's Theatre, which is now 32 years old,

it from time to
activities all over Delhi, despite lot of problems and financial strain faced by
time.

receivCur progress is possible due to the wholehearted support and cooperation we
of Delhi.
ed frorn our workers, staff members. institution members and various schools

and we
The veteran Social Worker, Srnt. Karnaladevi Chattopadhyaya, is our Patron
get lot of inspiration from her.
an, Vice-Chairman, the
General Council : Apart from our patron, the Chairm
s of the General Council of the
President, there are 52 members and 11 institution Member

organisation.
Governing Body :

d by the
Fifteen members including the office bearers electe

Children's Theatre during 1984-85.
General Council constituted the Governing Body of Delhi

