Children's Theatre for the year 1984-85 prepared by our Chartered Accountant, Messrs
M.S. Shekhon 8 C0,, gives a clear picture of our financial position.
I am glad to inform the Members that we got exemption under Section 80-G of
Income Tax Act, 1961 as a result of which donations made to Delhi Children's Theatre will
be eligible for relief to the donors. The exemption under 80-G of IT Act has been granted
to us from 1-4-1983 to 31-3-1986. We are grateful to our Vice-Chairman, Srnt. Purnima
Bandopadhyaya, for helping us to get the exemption under Section 80.6 of IT Act 1981,
We shall have to make fresh efforts to get renewal of this exemption from March 1986,

Annual Festival :

During the year under review, the Delhi Children's Theatre held

a four-day Annual Festival at the Mavalankar Auditorium on February 18, 19, 20 and 21.
1985. The Festival was a great success and large number of school students and visitors

witnessed the festival shows. There were two shows in the morning and evening. The
rate of the tickets were Rs. 3/- for school students and Rs. 5/- for adults. A Special
Souvenier was brought out on the occasion.

We are grateful to the President of India and the Vice-President for giving Special
Messages for the Souvenier.

Srnt Venkatraman, wife of Vice-President, Srnt. Sonia Gandhi, Shri M.M.K. Wali, Lt
Governor of Delhi. and Shri Jagpravesh Chandra, Chief Executive Councillor of Delhi,

witnessed the festival and encouraged the children.
Five DCT Training centres and eleven schools of Delhi took part in the festival

programme.

The four-day festival consisted of 19 items including plays, ballets and chorus songs.
The following items were presented by DCT Training Centres :

if

1)
2)

Andher Nagari Chaupat Raja
BiIli-Ke-Gale-Me-Ghanti

——

DCT Training Centre
DPS, Mathura Road

3)

Ganit-Ka-Desh

—

DCT Training Centre

4)
5)
6)
7)

Chane-ka-Dana
Ali Baba Chalis Chor
Sagar Mani
Chori Karna Maha Paap

——
—
—-—

8)

Govardhan Girdhari

—

Sardar Patel Vidyalaya
DCT Training Centre
Ken. Vidyalaya Centre
DCT Train!ng Centre,
Laxman Public Shhool
DCT Training Centre,
Lady Irwin Junior School

