The Indian Computer Scene
Only when the beneﬁts of computers affect

his life and change its quality for the better,
can we say that the Indian computer scene
has come of age. CMC‘s role is clear. It is the
catalyst that must help exploit the full
potential of computers for good. It will use
the latest information technology so that

every aspect of Indian life like agriculture,
education, power, banking, railways and so on
takes a quantum leap and beneﬁts the people
at large.

What CMC can do is design software that
makes the most effective use of available
power. That ensures continuous power free
from voltage and frequency ﬂuctuations. That
reduces losses in transmission and safeguards
the security of the system. At the most
economical price and the least ecological
cost. Castles in the air? Hardly. l‘nder a l'.l\'.
sponsored project called Interact, CMC was
given the signal honour of leading teams from
21 nations and has already developed a real-

network. Operating through fourth
generation systems from Bombay. Delhi.

Madras. Calcutta and Hyderabad. lndonet will
eventually link 50 major cities in the country.
Catering to the entire spectrum of users in
scientiﬁc. industrial. commercial and rural
fields. it will also be a major means ofbringing
the beneﬁts of computers to you, me and the

man in the village.

time system for electric power management.
1 low are computers going to affect his life?

concrete example.
Electricity reached his village over ten years
ago. But there's such a shortage of power
that he has to revert to kerosene lamps half
the time.
So what are computers and applications
software going to do? Generate more power?

No. We'll leave that to the new thermal. hydel
or nuclear projects.

Not to mention on - line systems for railway
freight management. And a satellite image
processing system for meteorological
applications.
So you see. what our power package could do
is help him to get a constant supply of
electricity. Truly. the scope and possibilities
for designing relevant and highly useful
software in the core sectors are infinite.
Which is why (NC is busy working on
lndonet, lndia‘s first national information

CMC Limited
( A (iovt. of India Enterprise)
\V'orld Trade Centre

(qufe l’arade. Bombay 400 005

MLS:CMC:124:8S

In countless ways. But let‘s take one

