1987
To celebrate the birth anniversary of our Berharnpore Repertory
of
y
wa
by
d
war
for
e
tur
ven
el
nov
r
the
ano
ted
emp
att
we
e
Theatr
presenting the drama "SWARABARNA" environmentally in our own

I

open air theatre complex on January I, 1987. We have staged the
drama thirty (30) times in that year, which includes our acceptance
of the invitation of “Nehru Yubo Kendra" (of Government of India).
We also ~{took-up to present a full length drama “CHAK BHANGA
MADHU“ of Manoj Mitra in this year. And in November, 1987, we
celebrated Drama Festival for the second successive year by staging
six one act plays and one full length drama.
1988
Berharnpore Repertory Theatre produced a short experimental
play of Tagore’s “TOTA KAH l N l " in the form of “Man with puppet".
This puppet has been made by the group workers. And this production was invited in 20 nos. of schools within the Murshidabad
District (West Bengal). This play honoured by the West Bengal
Govt. as the best production of the year of 1988.
In this year B.R.T. organised the Granger Drama Festival with the
Renowned Groups and performanecs like Habib Tanbir—with his
Naya Theatre (Delhi) Charandas Chor ’Bohurupee' with ’Kinukaharer '
Thetar‘, ’Anya Theatre' with ’Madhab Malanchi Kainya' Ranga
Karmee's-Lok-Katha' Famous Kathak Dancer —G0bindan Kutty with *
hls solo effort—Shyarna and Berharnpore Repertory Theatre with
their presstigious “Chand Sadagar".
In this year B. R. T. opplauded Bombay and Poona Audiences
with Chand Sadagar and Tota Kahini in almost Seven performances
there. And ALL INDIA RADIO broad casted B. R. T.'S 'Swarabarna‘
in November. ,
1989

This year 8. R. T. was busy to Build up their own Reharshal
room permanently. And so they could not be able to stage a
new full length drama, but two short dramas are superbly projected
to the audience with high appreciation like ’RAJA KA BAJA'of
late Safder Hasmi and ’ROGTA KEE 7' of Indranath Bandopadhyay
as election drama, at Berhampore and suburbans in a full sewing.
And finally B. R. T. is ready with another Drama festival. The
popular Natyotsav for the theatre lovere of Murshidabad and hope
this process will run even for coming year with help of yours.
Thank you.

