M O L I E R E (1622-1673)
Moliere is known to posterity as one of the great comic dramatists
of all time.
Like Corneille, Moliere was educated at
Jesuit
College, where he received a thorough education in classical
literature. At the age of twenty one he was drawn to the theatre,
joined a company and after initial failures, spent the formative years
of his life, from 1645 until 1658, touring the provinces with a troupe,
for whom he acted and wrote plays.
By the time he returned to
Paris, he was an accomplished writer of conventional comedies.

a good actor and an admirable director and stage manager.
company,

named Illustre Theatre.

His

at ﬁrst performed in various

indoor tennis courts in Paris, but deSpite the patronage of the Duke
of Orleans, did not acheive a great success. Moliere was sued
for the theatre’s debts and imprisoned twice. Continued ﬁnancial
difﬁculties forced the Illustre Theatre to close in 1649,

did not abandon the theatre.

but Moliere

There were many who recognised

his talent and soon he was able to secure the support and patron-

age of the King himself, then a gay young man determined to make
the court of Versailles the centre of a lustrous age. No one was
better ﬁtted than Moliere to supply Louis XIV with entertainments
he needed, but patronage did not blunt his pen and between 1664
and 1666 he wrote his three masterpieces : Le MisanthrOpe, Tartuﬁe
and Don Juan. Tartuﬁe and Don Juan created such a fury that
they were both suppressed.
Moliere’s fibre is evident in these plays, and in the others which
followed. ‘Les Precieuses ridicules' and ‘L’ Ecole des femmes' were
daring satires up on the most ridiculous aSpects of French society
and there were plenty of peOple to say that Moliere was reincarnation of the devil.
Moliere’s stature as one of the world’s great masters of the drama-

tic form is based in part on his ability to create a wide range of
remarkable theatrical characters.

But equally important is

his

success in depicting, in a mocking and irreverent style, and morals
and manners of the 17th century and the vices and pretensions of
his countrymen.
since

nothing

In the preface to ‘Tartuﬁe',
on

earth

lies

beyond the

Moliere asserted that
possibility

of human

