DIRECTOR’S NOTE

It was perhaps the name itself; “Azeazun” or
“Azizan” as she is popularly remembered in Kanpur,
that stirs one’s curiosity and a desire to know this
woman who was one “Gaddar” (in the words of
Amrit Lal Nagar) among the many that shook this
nation in 1857. This was the starting point and
Azeezun remained the focus as the history of that
period unfolded itself, through books, records,

letters and diaries — an astoundingly turnultous
period that confronted the Indian landscape and
challenged the East India Company. It dazed and
terrified for, the ferocity of the battle led to massive

bloodshed which left its trail on the dusty plains of
this country and cast its long shadow on generations
of men and women. It poses many a question: why
was it the burden of this belt to play that leading
role and then why was it again the fate of that belt
to suffer neglect and be denied of those privileges
that were available elsewhere. Why the education
system imposed by the British found it necessary
to alienate the people from their traditional life styles
and values.
The East India company had power and it exercised
that power to inflict cruelty on the people who
resisted with all their strength. Victory and defeat
were the two alternating sides of a the same ordeal.
The British were overcome by dread and despair
faced with the ferocity of retaliation in Kanpur more
than any other place. The British built a memorial
in Kanpur, a circular platform at the centre of a big
park that one can see today. In the sunshine of
wintery mornings and evenings, children play
around oblivious of the past history. How are they
to know that they are playing on the ground above
the very mass graves of hundreds of white women
and children massacred there. A little further away,
there stands a huge banian tree where, it is claimed,

the British took their revenge hanging many of that
locality, once they regained control of the city. It is
a place soaked in the bloodshed of history.

