NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA REPERTORY COMPANY

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964-65 on an experimental basis
by E.Alkazi. In the beginning, it consisted of only four actors. It later expanded into a
larger group of actors. musicians and technicians. mainly drawn from the graduates of
the National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964, the late Om Shivpuri led the company
and later in 1977, Manohar Singh became the first regular Chief of Repertory. When
Manohar Singh left the Company in 1985, for a short period Ms.Uttara Baokar and Ms.
Surekha Sikri looked after the functioning of the company. Later J. N . Kaushal officiated
as the Chief till 1988. From 1988 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was heading the
company. From 1994 to 97 Kaushal functioned again as acting Chief.

Business Manager
Stage Manager
Technical Director (Light)
Sound Technician
Music lncharge
Wardrobe lncharge
Workshop lncharge
Box Office

T. R . Bakshi

B. S . Patil
Ci . S .Ma rathe
S. N . Dasgupta
Om Prakash
Gursharan Kaur

The Repertory has performed over hundred and twenty plays by seventy playwrights
and has worked with fifty directors. Quite a few of the actors of the company have
emerged, over the years, as celebrities in theatre, cinema and television in India. The
Repertory has toured extensively all over India and has made several successful trips

Abdul Hakim
to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal and Mauritius.

S . P. Sha rm a
Rarnesh Athwal
S. R .Yada v,
T. R . Bhatt

Di re ct or
National School of
D ra m a

Over the years, the Repertory produced a variety of plays ranging from stylized musicals
to realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to translations and adaptations of
foreign language plays. Eminent directors of national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have worked with the Company.

Ram Gopal Bajaj

The Repertory also paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in 1992—93 on his twentieth
death anniversary organising a major festival of his plays.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs, set- models, costumes, properties,
posters etc. of Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the
Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the Company. It is a permanent exhibition designed by
Bansi Kaul.

