INTERNATIONAL WORLD THEATRE DAY- 1998
(released by the International Theatre Institute (ITI) and condensed/translated by Bharatiya Natya Sangh-the national centre of ITI)

Dear Theatre persons and Theatre lovers,
The International Theatre Institute, UNESCO, Paris, which conceived and commenced the celebration of World Theatre Day
since 1962, greets you all on its 50th Anniversary ( 1948- 1998).
The International Theatre Institute stands for stimulating creation and increase of co-operation between theatre people, exchange
of knowledge and practice of performing arts and to make it an instrument of development, peace and friendship among
people.
The World Theatre Day, celebrated on 27 March each year, is an occasion for Theatre people to celebrate the power of theatre,
to share with their audiences a vision of their art, to contribute to understanding and peace between people.
“Theatre is dialogue of man’s discourse with the gods of the world and with his fellow man”-said Miguel Angel Asturias.
“Theatre puts aside that separates humanity and accentuates all that human beings have in common—laughter and tears, joy
and sadness—that resides in human heart”-said J.L. Barrault.
“Truth is found in the imagination. The theatre of imagination is the theatre of genuine truth”—said IONESCO
“The most crushing censorship of all is not of the Government but of the self censorship of people-unwilling to take steps to
achieve self awareness-”said Edward ALBEE.
“In the theatre, we all want to see ourselves as we were and as we shall be”-said Pablo NERUDA.

“In today’s dehumanizing technological civilization, theatre is one of the island of human authenticity. If the world is not to end
up badly, theatre must be protected and cultivated”-said Vaclav HAVEL.

“The tragic situation is which we find ourselves is the fruit of narrow dogrnatisrn and intolerance. Theatre is one means of getting
rid of this illness—let us closely listen to the world of actors in theatre than to speeches of politicians” -said Jeong OK KIM-Korean
Director 8 President of IT].

“The irony is that we feel ourselves in the grip of resorsely destructive forces. (But) we can not find what we have always
darnanded of our tragic heroes—a point of reconciliation, a moment of acceptance when we realize that the cause was not in our
stars but in ourselves”-said Arthur MILLER.

