ANTON PAVLOVICH CH EKHOV
(1 86o-1 904)
Chekhov, Anton Pavlovich (1860-1904) The most notable and celebrated 20thcentury Russian dramatist in the West, his plays helped establish psychological
realism, although possessing syrnbolist, impressionist and even proto-absurdist traits.
By fragmenting the well-made play, scattering exposition throughout, compressing,

internalizing and excising action, Chekhov created the so-called 3W of
misdirection, noneventtulness and partially stated meaning. A physician by training,
he was especially sensitive to the individual’s prerpositithgvvard wastefulness
versusthe conservationist potential gtﬁg His short story writing career, begun at
Moscow University MediCal School (1879——84) and extending to his commissions for
Suvorin’s conservative newspaper New Time (1886--93) and beyond, taught him to
select and delicately weave idicgymratigﬂrevealingdetails, symbols, images and
themes into a rhythmically constructed musical structure. His work reVeals the influence
ofthegreat Russian realists- Tolstoi, Dostoevsky, Turgenev, the bytovki (those who
wrote of everyday life)-as well as that of de Maupassant’s and Saltykov-Shchedrin’s
atmospheric character studies, Maeterlinck’s syrnbolist rendered inner worlds, Gogcl’s
grotesquely stylized illogicality and Pisarev’s vaudevillian farces. Also, in such stories
as ‘The Steppe’ (1888), ‘A Dreary Story’ (1889), ‘The Duel’ (1981), “Ward No. 6’
(1892). ‘The Lady with the Dog' (1899) and ‘In the Ravine’ (1891). Chekhov learned
to strike a balance betweensuleypairtfuland 'पय-सु-थ-मैं-लय.]?-.'-."-:-']-']]'].
comedicperspectives

on life, to link the
cataStroptIIc with the trivial, to create a sense of mystery, multiplicity,
recurrence and non-occurrence. Chekhov’s earliest plays are larces, vaudevilles and
comedy-jokes’ based upon his stories : On the Highroad (1884), The Harrnfulness of
Tobacco Smoking (1886) Sang Song ant The Bear (1888), The Wedding and the
Tragedian in Spite of Himself (1889), The Marriage Proposal (1890) and The
Anniversary (1891 ). In these succinct, dynamic and Compassionate pieces, Chekhov
began to erase the boundary between comedy and drama and to forge the tragifarcial
approach built upon ‘seeming irrelevancy’ which so confounded the audiences and
critics of his full-length plays, with the notable exception of nemirovich-Danchenko,
Meyerhold and Bely. Chekhov’s ambivalence toward art as ‘sacred mystery' or
‘debased entertainment’ and his uncertainty vis-a-vis his own career as a dramatist
were reinforced by the failure of his early plays. Platonov (1878), lvanov (1887) and
The Wood Demon (1889) dealt with provincial Don Juans and Hamlets, 19th-century
‘supertluous men’ of the intelligentsia, sunk in the mire of false and disillusioned
romance and realism. Chekhov’s major plays-The Seagull (Following a dismal 1896
production at the Aleksandrinsky Theatre), Uncle Vanya (a revised Wood Demon,
1899), The Three Sisters (1901) and The Cherry Orchard (1904)-all staged by
Stanislavsky at the Moscow Art Theatre (MAT) in what were for Chekhov
unsatisfactorily sentimental and naturalistic productions, developed the full array of
his characteristic drarnaturgical devices. contrapuntal dialogue, structure and theme;
offstage and inner action; spatial iconography; rnetatheatrical doubleness in settings,
2

