EXCERPTS FROM BOOKS.....
You say that you have wept over my plays. Yes, and not only you alone. But
I did not write them for this purpose, it is Alekseev [Stanislavsky] who has made
such crybabies of them. I desired something other. I only wished to tell people
honestly: “look at ourselvegjegﬁwgdly and‘bgringly you live!” The principal

thing is that—Eeorﬂey'smnderstahd this, and when they do, they will surely create
for themselves another and a better life. I will not see, it, but I know it will be entirely

different, not like what we have now. And as long as it does not exist, I’ll continue
to tell people: “See how badly and boringly you live!" Is it that which they weep over?
— Chekhov, in a letter to the young student Tikhonov
It may be precisely for that reason — to make the members of his audience
look at themselves :- that Chekhov strives continUally throughout The Three Sisters
to disrupt absolute sympathetic identification with satiric insight. For as they endeavor
to place themselves above surroundings in which they cannot find the beauty, the
fineness of feeling, nor the intensity of sensation furnished both by literary models
and their own romantic visions of themselves and of life, the characters construct
scenarios through which they are able to beoorne pertormers of dramas more extravagant than their actual lived experience .........
Indeed, the active participation required of an audience watching a performance of The Three Sisters might well produce an uncomfortable feeling of recognition as such participation comes to reveal a kind of self-delusion rooted in a sense
of superiority that never validates itself through meaningful action. For the characters,
who believe themselves mired in the banality of provincial life, are shown to be
accomplices to that banality, not so much trapped in their provincial town aswpﬁrisgn:
ers of their own quasi-literary plots, fixed in self-conscious poses which deny them

authenticity —— which is to say, the ability to inhabit lives that, for better or worse, are
fully their own — as they watch time, and life itself, slip by while events which might
otherwise have been influenced or controlled take on the power and inexorability of
fate .

— From Carol Strong/h Tuft's essay on 'Three Sisters ' in the December, 1989
issue of the journal MODERN DRAMA.

‘Jt ,dQeSILLmatteL’. नुक्वेंध्याग्नस्थाक्तिध्या

tries to hush Vershinin’s declaration of love, then concedes that it doesn t matter. It हैहै
dosen't matter to Andrey whether the rnurnrners come or not. Even Vershinin, dejected at the anomie of military and civilians alike, uses it. Indifference is the mode

of the play, not optimism ; indifference toaworld that ofjgrsméﬁcﬁﬁﬁiurn.
All attempts at forward motion —- all the brave forays into the world of workff‘or
instance — come to nothing, counterbalanced by the undertow of regret. As in The
Cherry Orchard, something has been lost — something is being lost in front of our
eyes -— some loss that will never be made good, even if all the bright prophecies
were to come true tomorrow.
There are many parallels between the two plays, of course. The evenings in
the ballroom that Firs remembers from the old days at the Gayevs’, with generals
and
admirals dancing, echo the narneday parties that Masha recalls from their childhood
in Moscow, with thirty or forty officers and a lot of noise. Lopakhin’s purchase
of the
Gayevs’ house is an abrupt equivalent to the gradual colonisation of the
Prozorovs’
4

