house first by Natasha and then by Protopopov. Lopakhin's plan to fell the cherry
orchard recalls Natasha's to fell the fir avenue. The same problem, too, arises with
both plays in accommodating the painfulness of the events to Chekhov’s insistence

on comic detachment. He did not designate Three Sisters a comedy, as he did, Ilia
Cfigrry,Qr§fit_arg;..tie called it a drama. But Stanislavsky in his memoirs recalls Chekhov
at the first readthrough of the play as being ‘certain he had written a light-hearted

comedy', and as being convinced, when the cast wept, that the play wasinoomprehens’ible and destined to fail. Nemirovich-Danchenko remembers him at the same
occasion as struggling with a sense of embarrassment and repeating several times
: ‘l’ve written a light comedy, though.’ The protestations should perhaps be taken with
some caution. Allowance must probably be made for the awkwardness of this first
reading. nga Knipper, who played Masha and was soon to beoorne Chekhov’s wife,
recalls dismayed actors and actresses muttering that it wasn't a play, that it was
unactable, that there were no parts, while the author ‘was smiling in embarrassment
and walking about amongst us, coughing tensely’. Allowance must also be made for
Chekhov's desire to lighten the heaviness and solernnity which, as he knew from
experience, always marked Stanislavsky’s productions. What he wanted from a comic
interpretation of the play was perhaps a sense of the absurdity of human intentigns“
and thecmeaninglessness of events, perhaps also the possibility of lightness, speed,

iﬁdifiérgnce, and irony in the playing..; ......‘. ३

३

”“””"If the play is about one thing then it is not about the hopes held out by
Vershinln, or by Olga, or by any of them. It is about the irony of those hopes — about
the way life mocks them. lrina’s hopes of redemption by work are betrayed by the
actual experience of it; Andrey's hopes of academic glory are betrayed by Andrey;
the sisters' hopes of Moscow are deferred and deferred and then shelved forever.
Even, conversely, Anflsa’s fear of being put out into the street is vain — she finds
herself better housed and better of then she has even been before. The only character whose hopes seem likely to be realised is Natasha, __and then because her .
hopes are so small and concrete and piecemeal ३…३ another" Baby, another room of
the house to put it in, another little triumph. This is the future as it's actually going
to be — not an unimaginable beauty on earth, but Protopopov in the sitting-room. ,
But the irony goes deeper than this. It wouldn’t make any difference even if
their hopes were realised. As Vershinin says, if the sisters actually did live in Moscow

they would cease to notice it. Perhaps in their hearts they understand this. Even Irina.
She has no ties—she could leave for Moscow at any time. But she doesn’t. And
Vershinin's objection is valid not only against the sisters' hopes but his own as well.
‘ljappiness,’ as he says, fis , not for us and never can be. All we can do is long for
it . ’
‘ Even more ironically, one of the things that destroys their chance of happiness
is their hope of achieving it. They are living in their various hypothetical futures —in
exile not only from Moscow, but from the present. Tusenbach finds his way back to
it briefly in the last act, when he notices the beauty of the world around him as if for
the first time in his life. But then he is on his way to be killed; he has no future to
distract him.
The final irony of the play, though, is its demonstration that we cannot live
without the hopes that cut us off from life. We are both poisoned and nourished by
the act of hope itself. And when all hopes for ourselves have been destroyed—as the
sisters' hopes have been at the end of the play-then we summon whatever dogged
courage we can muster to confront the rest of our lives-and we start to tell the old

5

