consoling story once again; only this time not about ourselves, but about another
people, living under quite different laws, on the far side of the storms.
— From Michael Frayn’s introduction to his translation of 'Three Sisters' published by Methuen.
But above all, the chair, locus Operandi of the chat, the indispensable center
without which the rest would be so much decoration. In the modern theater the chair
(or such derivatives as Edward Albee’s park bench and Beckett’s urns) becomes:
territorial preserve, weapon and shield (Ibsen and Pinter); the curse of the material
world (Ionesco); the seat of anxiety, of time and place as enemy, of the problernatical
nature of existence among “the things" (Checkhov and Beckett). In sum, in the
graphic economy of theater symbolism, rooms, like all images, must eventually justify
their presence: they must inhabit the people who inhabit them ..........
This idea of the fateful participation of the setting in the drama is not much of
a factor in pleasant realism or in realistic comedy, where the stage is often little more
than a backdrop illustrating a certain social status or a benign obstacle course of
misbehaving props and unrealiable hiding places. But its comes to a grim and subtle
perfection in the plays of Chekhov, whom we like to think of as a comedian. And
before moving on to the final phase of scenic illusion I will deal with here, I would
like to look more closely at this stage, primarily because in his living rooms we detect
the emergence of a characteristic modern attitude that makes him an almost ideal

transition to the post - realistic stage.
Let us begin by trying to imagine Chekhov’s play on a bare platform stage. Can
we imagine his characters looking through windows that aren’t there, addressing
bookcases of the mind, moving through the invisible detritus of a dying civilization?
More specifically, what exactly would happen to the play without its furniture? My
guess is that the space could be filled by our imagination, in much the same way that
we fill Thornton Wilder's empty spaces on slight verbal and mimic cues — were it not
for another factor. It is the time scheme that would be out of joint. in Chekhov,
furniture, is visible history: the predicament of life — its “persistent low-keyed
unpleasure", in David Reisman’s phrase — is lodged in furniture.
Chekhov’s plays might be called epics of claustrophobia, in the sense that he
often called for three or four changes of setting in a single play (a tendency he may
have inherited from other Russians who were, on the whole, rather cavalier about
scenery). The fact is, with a few adjustments his plays could have been confined to
one setting, unlike lbsen’s since nothing much is said in one room that could not have
been said in another. So there is very little pragmatic or drarnaturgic reason behind
such shifts. The real logic has to do with atmosphere: for the movement from room

to room of the same house, or from the interior to the outside, is a merciless cornrnentary on human possibilities. Plus ca change: Chekhov's people remain the same
no matter where they are. This has to do, in part, with what they talk about, When
they sit down to talk, as they usually do, about life elsewhere, or two hundred years

hence, or about the need to work, furniture becomes the seat of discontent; to be in
one world and to dream of another is to confer on one's living space the status of
a prison. But it has to do more deeply with the very pace and rhythm of life. To
imagine a Chekhov character bustling through his rooms toward some less immediate goal than a birthday party is to redefine the space in terms of utility. Very often,
his characters are already sitting as the play opens. That is, we pick up their lives
in a continuing past tense. Nothing puts the play so securely in the realm of endur-

6

