ance as this “discovered” tableau. It is not that time is being passed. Time is an old
condition, like rheumatism or arthritis, that one tolerates. It is not, strictly speaking,

boredom, but an accommodation to boredom. Boredom becomes an activity in
Chekhov, a little like that of Mann’s tuberculars on the magic mountain who spend
what is left of their lives “reading” their X rays. indeed, time acornpanies the Chekhov
character like the odor of a disease. It is his inescapable medium and it rubs off on
the walls and furnishings which are, like the people, by virtue of having been. As the
old Russian proverb goes : “That which was, is. That which is, will be”. Time gives
itself away in Chekhov as space gives itself away in Ibsen (the pistols are waiting
over there; the inner room frames the watchful eye of General Gabler; Hedda always
enters from up left). There are no such strategic locations in Chekhov’s rooms because there is very little on stage that holds a hidden meaning. The Chekhov room
is a communal locale, not a gridwork of defensive and offensive domains. It is shared
space: visitors move in it as if they had always been there. in fact, you can’t tell the
visitors front the residents.
As a result, the Chekhov character sits in his chair differently from the Ibsen
character, who always seems to sit on the edge of it, bursting with news or curiosity.
ln Ibsen a chair is a chair, until one decides to use it as a weapon (Engstrand cannily
refusing to sit with his betters, Hedda sitting between Thea Elvsted and Lovborg); but

for the most part one sits down in Ibsen to have a leading conversation, for only from
chairs can the intricacies of motive be unraveled. In Chekhov, however, the chair is
the evidence of the Chekhov habit. The world of objects is a slurnbering cat; it has
no purpose but to serve as the still point against which we observe a dreadful
passage of soul. Osip mandelstam made a perceptive remark about Chekhov in
complaining about the Moscow Art Theatre’s “distrust of the word” The famous
pauses in its productions of Chekhov, he said, “are nothing other than a holiday of
pure tactile sensation. Everything grows quiet, and only a silent tactile sensation
remains" in which the audience “touches” the furniture with its eyes. This is exactly
right: what happens in a Chekhov silence is that the tactile world, the visible world
(which the talk is aimed unconsciously at keeping at bay), this history-in-objects,
quietly encroaches on the human, like the creeping vegetation in Sartre’s Bouville.
Suddenly, you can ear the ticking of the objects and the ceaseless flow of future into
past: the world is no longer covered by conversation.
How different this silence is from silence in Ibsen, which bristles with attentiveness and expectation, with thinking. Out of Ibsen will come Pinter; out of Chekhov,
Beckett. In other words, if stage conversation is filled with inuendo, with subterfuge,
with the charge of intrigue, silence — when it falls — will emit these same energies.
Silence is the same warfare by other means. But when stage conversation is filled
with emptiness, as it is in Chekhov, or with a form of emotion and anguish that has
no specific derivation and no promise of surcease through possibilities in the world
of action, silence — when it falls —— will be the “negative equivalent” of this emptiness.
ln Chekhov we arrive at the moment when realism can no longer render the true
content of its perceived reality (“life as it is”) with its traditional system of tropes and
symbols. It is not that the tropes and symbols fall into disuse, and it is not that vast
entities, such as life in Czarist Russia, cannot be summed up in a image like the
cherry orchard. But it is hard to find the bottom line of the signification because
whatever the meaning is, it is subethical. The tropes have somehow got skewed, or
7

