fervor", in Victor
ironized: the ethical foundation of realism — its “underlying moral
ideologies but
Brombert’s termt 6 -- has given way to a skepticism, not toward
of a hovering
toward the possibilities of existence itself, and one has the sense
as his people are
author who is as diabolically equivocal — if not plain diabolical —
sed and congentle. The decline in theatricality (plot, action, intrigue) that so impres
n absence
fused us in Chekhov’s plays derives specifically front a more or less sudde
. Some of
of argument and discussion as the primary source of dramatic energy
and it is
e)
exampl
for
in,
Vershin
and
bach
Chekhov’s people argue endlessly (Tusen
against
is
he
that
—
f
himsel
ing
quite possible to see that Chekhov is saying someth
written
were
plays
his
that
argue
“dreaming” and for “work” — but one would hardly
mirror
a
hold
to
was
n
missio
as proofs of such ideas or that Chekhov's self-imposed
these
use
plays
the
that
say
up to Russian character. It would be more in order to
e
spear
Shake
that
way
tendencies as carriers of something else, in somewhat the
ov into any sort
uses the tendency of murder as a carrier in Macbeth. Making Chekh

does
of polemicist is like locating the meaning of Macbeth in the premise that crime
the
en
betwe
but
voices
n
not pay. The true dialectic in Chekhov occurs not betwee
reality.
in
silence
of
echo
single voice of the “disorganized soul” and the “reactionary"
The point can be summed up in one example. When Gaev addresses the
ny
bookcase in The Cherry Orchard, he is, one might say, addressing it as a rnetonyr
Hail
e!
or synecdoche for the cultured past on this estate: “Dear honoured bookcas
to thee who for more than a hundred years hast served the pure ideals of good and
justice”. And indeed, he is right, in a sense: the bookcase is a remnant of Gaev’s
world, as he remembers it. “Naive" realism would put such a bookcase on stage for
just such a symbolic purpose; or it might do so to illustrate pedantry, or learning, or
anything else that might be derived from the symbolism of books. In lbsen it would
be planted early on and wait for its moment in the play; in Shaw we might even be
told the titels of the books on the shelves. On Chekhov’s stage the bookcase is only
negligibly symbolic in this sense; it might just as well have been a portrait, a grandfather clock, or a sarnovar. Like everything in Chekhov's rooms, like the rooms
themselves, it has one master function: to constitute the ironic non response of the
world. We laugh at Gaev’s speech, sad as it may be, for the same reason that we

laugh on overhearing someone talking to an object. The bookcase does not hear
Gaev. Yet it is a commentary on his speech, a visual rnetatext to the spoken text,
and it is saying virtually what Proust says about Cornbray:
The reality that I had known no longer existed... The places that we have
known belong now only to the little world of space on which we map them for our
own convenience. None of them was ever more than a thin slice, held between the
contiguous impressions that composed our life at that time; rernebrance of a particular form is but regret for a particular moment; and houses, roads, avenues are as
fugitive, alas, as the years .........
Two major threads of modernism come together in the almost seamless fabric
of Chekhov’s plays. We can look at Chekhov through two different lenses. We can
see his plays as a demonstration of how far the descriptive function of realism could
be carried, how close art could come to the rhythm of “life as it is" (his own phrase).
Plays have gotten even more eventless since Chekhov, but no twentieth—century
dramatist has managed to lift the representation of casual behaviour to such a high
level of art. But Chekhov cannot be circumscribed in the terms realism and naturalisrn. We can also see a lyrical, or impressionistic, or Maeterlinckian side of Chekhov.
8

