.1

Here we bear on the famous Chekhov mood, nasfr'oenr'e, which has brought as many

Chekhov productions to grief as the naturalisrn. It is not that there are two discrete
srdes of Chekhov, for the irnpressionisrn is, in one sense, only a refinement of the

naturalisrn. Georg Lukacs remarks that in rnaeterlinck the naturalistic techniques
arrive at complete abstraction. To develop the idea further : if you press the concreteness of the here and now far enough, you arrive at the infrastructure of reality, or the
laws that hold reality up. There is a point where scrupulous attention to detail — for
example, a photo of the pores of the skin — leads one back, or out, to the universe
of geometric mass. In terms of human behaviour, concentration on nuance, on the
universe of microaction, leads, in the hands of the right artist, to general statements
about “condition". Such a play is perhaps best described in Frye’s term, archetypal
masque, which “takes place in a world of human types, which at its most concentrated becomes the interior of the human mind." I am thinking particularly of the strain
of impressionistic plays from Maeterlinck to Beckett where the characters seem to be
enacting a drama of pure consciousness under a naturalistic shell of language. For

example, this passage from Materlinck's The Intruder:
THE UNCLE: What shall we do while we are waiting?
THE GRANDFATHER: Waiting for what?
THE UNCLE : Waiting for our sister.
THE FATHER: you see nothing coming, Ursula?
THE ELDEST DAUGHTER: (At the window) No, father.
THE FATHER: And in the avenue? — You see the avenue?
THE DAUGHTER: Yes, father; it is moonlight, and I see the avenue as far as
the cypress wood.
THE GRANDFATHER: And you see no one, Ursula?
THE DAUGHTER: No one, grandfather.
The similarly to Beckett here goes deeper than the static situation and the
verbal images that recur in Waiting for Godot and Endgame. Here we see the pe—
culiar cooperation of text and rnetatext so common in irnpressionisrn. Apart from the

slight stiltedness, we hear the pace and detail of real speech, speech concerned with
a real out there; but we also have the feeling that speech is referring to another
landscape that can be seen only with the metaphysical eye. Nothing is, in fact, but
what is not. Chekhov, who greatly admired Maeterlinck’s “strange, wonderful" plays,
wrote a little drama of pure consciousness himself and put in into The Sea Gull where
he made fun of it, or at least his characters did; but it is actually a signature if not
a self-parody, of what he was doing in his plays in naturalistic disguise. If you squint
out the paraphernalia of random reality in Chekhov and think of his people as a kind
of collective consciousness, you are left with a monologue of the soul much like that
in Treplev's playlet: “I am alone ...... है I open my lips to speak, and in this void my\sad
echo is unheard”. Of course Chekhov would never allow his own characters to say
anything so pathetic, but the essence of this emotional subtext pervades his work to
the breaking string of The Cherry Orchard, where he is flirting openly with what was
later claled surrealism.
When drama arrives at the point where it is about people who dream, rather
than act, it is on the verge of giving birth to the dream play, or to the drama of the

9

