interior of the human mind. (I am putting aside the obvious example of Strindberg
here because his is such a clear case of a dramatist who broke with one form
[naturalism] and moved, more or less wholesale, to another [surrealism]). The best
treatment of this journey to the interior has been written by Raymond Williams, who
argues that the “break" between naturalisrn and the various nonrealisms that suc-

ceeded it must be seen not in “the look of the stage" but as the steady evolution of
a “structure of feeling" based on “a passion for truth, in strictly human and contemporary terms.” Thus broadly conceived, the naturalist drama is “one of the great

revolutions in human consciousness: to confront the human drama in its immediate
setting, without reference to ‘outside' forces and powers.” There is always, he says,
“a precise internal relation" between a structure of feeling and its set of stylistic

conventions, and the naturalist drive toward its constantly evolving truth often found.
It is necessary to slough off conventions because they were no longer true enough
— all of which gave the product the look of a new “ism”. Being a sort of scientist,
the naturalist found himself in the position of the physicist searching for the elementary particle: every time he thought he had found it, a still more elementary particle
signaled its existence. Or, today’s truth is tomorrow’s received idea; today’s realism
is tomorrow’s melodrama. Thus naturalisrn moved increasingly inward to subtler and
more subjective kinds of experience, creating its own conventions or borrowing them
from earlier forms as it advanced. To abbreviate a complex metamorphosis; once

realism had perfected the fusion of psychology and scenery —- finding, as it were,
the mind’s construction in the environment _ the next step was immanent. The clearest
moment of conventional transformation, or at least the most important for the theater,

is expression-ism, which, Williams says, is realism turned inside out. Once you have
trapped your protagonist in one of these real rooms, leaving him (or her) in the posture

of Munch’s creature in The Cry; you take away the room _ which is no longer real
enough — and reconstruct it as the visible extension of his ravaged state of mind.
For example, as the story of a woman who dreams of living dangerously, imagine an
expressionistic Hedda Gabler that takes place in the barrel of a dueling pistol; or a
Cherry Orchard set among trees that gradually turn into telegraph poles and industrial smokestacks.

The refreshing thing about Williams’s approach is that it enables us to see an
evolution as a continual process rather than as something that began and ended
as
a manifestation of style. However distinctive the look of the expressionistic
stage, it
was doing the work of the naturalist premise either in its pessimistic aspect
(with
respect to society’s victimizaton of the individual) or in its essentialist aspect
(with
respect to its intense concern for the state of the soul). Above all, it was
still representational in the sense that it sought to depict faithfully its experience
“in human and
contemporary terms." The distinctive thing about the naturalists and
the expressionists was that theirs was an art of fierce signification — meaning
that if the play was
interesting, if the audience drew its breath in outrage or astonis
hment, it was because
the stage was directly plugged into life. What the spectator was
seeing was his own
rooms or the inside of his own head. It is important to rememb
er how different this
conception of_ art was from that of the neoclassicists,
or even the rornanitcs, who
presumably vrewed plays as achieving, or not achieving,
a perfection of traditional
form, a jUSt represen

tation of eternal nature, or as a freedom
theory that what was good enough for eternal nature was good to mix forms on the
enough for art. Front
the
standpomt of the new rnilitancy, whether expressionist
or naturalist, classicisrn

10

