Get a lot of ex e rcise . A healthy mind breeds
will increase your proficiency at work

Avoid negative people. If you want to do your work optimistically and avoid

Besides handling Jagriti’s year-long

education module, accredited to Trinity
College London — Drama St Speech,
Spurgeon is a theatre actor, director, and
drama teacher. Growing up, she was

training in Western Classical piano and
Western Classical vocals, and singing in
choirs. Then the Baldwin Girls High
School alum joined St Joseph’s College of
Arts 8r Science to study microbiology.
The theatre bug struck her around that
time. "I joined an acting workshop,
because I had a huge crush on a music
teacher who was also involved with
theatre, ” she says, fighting
“embarrassment”. During the ﬁve-day
boot camp, the 18-year-old performed a
text from Filth. "1 got into the skin of my
character and really broke down. My

introduced the Jagriti Summer Carnival,
a fest for kids. She laughs, as she tells us,
"1 often think how I managed to learn all
of this — from arts management to
educational programming - on the iob. I
could have gone horribly wrong, but I
think I must have some core ability to
work in a fast-paced job like this, where

you have to hit the ground running from
the word 'go’. I got lucky.”
You don’t get lucky without some
hard work, however. The performing arts
space has now become a training ground
for kids, adults and corporate
professionals. In the meantime, she finds

time for her theatre projects by
rehearsing for plays from 12 at night till
4am if she has to. "No work gets
diminished because you pick up
teacher later told me, ’You should do
another,” says the multi-tasker. Her work
theatre'.” The next stop was another
includes developing theatre curriculum,
acting workshop, where she was
scouring for latest pedagogy, finding the
“spotted” and bagged her first play,
right teachers and guest faculties (who
'I'hespo, in 2005, and her first award as an
have to necessarily be performers too)
actor. "Theatre happened by accident.
and connecting with parents, and drama
After Thespo, I did Butter and Mashed
teachers across the city schools. "1 want
Banana. It was fun, experimental, with a
our training to be fun and holistic for
lot of music,” she says.
kids. I know 98 per cent of them will not
Soon, it was stage that was filling her
become actors, but they will eventually
days in college, and standing
जिब-न-रे-उई I
support the theatre scene. That’s
behind microscopes began to
माँ"
. what I am pushing for.” Her

lose lustre. She dropped out in ’ have alway5

team also plans to have a

the second year. The
1110.] a good
long-term actor training
bibliophile, who spent most
मृ module for adults in place
challenge, and l I soon, for “you need fresh
of her formative years at
Blossom Book House
३ blood to sustain the
reading books, and
ever opportunity I theatre scene”.
“escaping” into their worlds,
In the pipeline are two
» t at comes
decided to study literature at
directorial projects, and a
St Xavier’s College, Murnbai. "It
play
called
In, her first as a
५ WW3)!
was the best decision of my life. I
writer, which will take another
was so determined to prove that
six months to mature.
moving to Murnbai was a good decision
It's a full calendar, but Spurgeon has
that I worked really hard to be among
no complaints, even if she does admit to
the top five students. So I tried to make
taking on too much all the time.
each day count. I would watch plays
“Sometimes I think I will burn out, but I
every weekend, read at the NCI’A library,
get upset if I am not working. If I don’t

I like to learn from

She got into theatre by accident, but thejourney

ever since has been full of design. Rebecca
Spurgeon discusses her proclivity for creativity
l Ba rkha.Kuma ri
@ti mesgro up. com

or watch alternate films, ” she recollects.
In her third year, she directedJohn

7 check my emails till evening, I face some

Osborne’s Look Back in Anger, building a ~
"cramped set” for it, with nothing but
tables from her college canteen. Next

in a really long time either. Yes, I did go

TW E ETS @b arklt a kM | RR 0R
was an acting stint in Equus, a 1973 play

ebecca Spurgeon has been
working at Jagriti since 201 1,
heading its education
department, but it’s only this

year that she became “actively

by Peter Shaffer about a psychiatrist. The
learnings from those experiences form
the basis of many of her teachings even
today. "At Xavier's, I discovered that
literature of a period is really reﬂective of

involved” with its ’season’, their theatre
showcase. In the last edition, she had

the people, and their ideas. 80 if you are
a good reader of the text, you can be a

staged her first directorial play, The
Workers’ Bible. “We are a small team
Uagriti’s founders and thespian duo

good performer. This is what I tell my

Arundhati and Jagdish Raia,

in fact, she had started working with

communications in-charge Mohit Gupta,
and herself). So there is no way you don't

Narmada Bachao Andolan in Madhya

get involved with it, ” she says.
We‘re at her GM I’alya ﬂat, where she
stays with her mother and two cats,
discussing her journey into theatre, and
her current job at Jagriti. As she hurtles

towards the big 30 — a “scary number”,
she calls it — this December, Spurgeon
also tells us all she wishes to do in future,
from activism, corporate marketing,
studying theatre at RADA, London to
doing more music.

students,” she says.

But theatre still wasn’t the “plan” —

I’radesh. But what's meant to be, will. "1
was planning to work in the

development sector after the college. But
I came to Berlgaluru on vacation,

happened to do a reading session for
Sachin Guriale’s new play, The
Memorandum, and never went back to

existential crisis. I have not taken a break
to Benaras for five days in March, but I
carried my laptop and WiFi dongle
along,” says Spurgeon, who would like to
get away to "the Middle East for a
culinary tour”, if she finds time. She
loves cooking, especially pork chops and
ham roast!
All of which will have to wait,
however, until Jagriti Season 2016 —. The

Bangalore Edition, featuring five plays
from city-based theatre groups,
concludes. “What’s interesting is each
director represents a different face of the
city. Salmin Sheriff of Playpen represents
old Bangalore. He is full of stories about
what the city looked like before traffic
took over. Vandana Prabhu from
Murnbai has stayed in Berkeley and is
now in Bengaluru. I believe you bring

some of who you are and where you
have been to the theatre. If you’ve driven

Tagore Festival, then as a drama
teacher, and, a year later, she
came on board as a full-time

one-and-awhalf hours in traffic before
getting to the rehearsals, you do bring
that angst to the stage, ” she says, about
the season that opens today.
While Spurgeon candidly admits that
"she’s got lucky” with the many, varied
career opportunities that have come her
way, all along, "she’s always loved a good
challenge”. She’s always been open to
learn new lessons. That’s the way to be,

oversaer of its education
calendar. The same year, she

we think — Accept an opportunity. Learn.
Grow. Repeat.
J//

Mumbai." Spurgeon has acted in over 20

productionsesince, "non-stop", directed a
musical Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,

and a children‘s play, The Selﬁsh Giant.
In 2011, her association with Jagriti
"i " मृ began, first as the curator of the

