SCEN E 2
The Collector goes to sleep. In his dream he feels the presence of some
darnsels around him. They disappear. Then an Arab girl dances with vigour
which ‘wakes up’ the Collector. She beckons him and leads him through the
countless apartments of the palace until he arrives before a deep blue screen,
where sprawled on the floor is a negro eunuch. Crossing over the eunuch’s
outstretched legs, the girl lifts up a fringe of the screen from where he can see
two exquisite feet in gold-embroidered slippers. He is drawn towards the fair
one but in so doing he disturbs the eunuch, who raises an alarm.
He ﬁnds himself being dragged by the soldiers. He wakes up from his nightmare sweating profusely, hearing Meher Ali’s insane laughter. It is morning.
SCEN E 3
The servant is arranging the room; the clerk Karim Khan comes for
some office work and ﬁnds the Collector in a dazed, pre-occupied mood.
“After nightfall l was caught and overwhelmed in the snare of a strange
intoxication. I would then be transformed into some unknown personage of
a bygone age, playing my part in unwritten history. . ”
The modern dress does not fit in with the environment of the ancient
palace. Suddenly he finds a regal costume ready for him. As he is changing
into it, a Persian girl is reflected in the mirror. As he turns to look at her she
is gone. She appears and disappears as if playing hide and seek. At last she
narrates her story but he cannot comprehend it. He follows her all over the
palace, through the corridors of dance and music and mystery. Sunrise ﬁnds
him in the middle of a big hall—whence he came there he knows not i
SCEN E 4

One evening the Collector decides to go out for a ride. . . His English
outfit is resting on a rack and he is about to take it when a sudden whirlwind
lifts it up, and a loud peal of laughter is heard.

That day at dead of night he hears heart-rending sobs and witnesses the
torture of that beautiful Persian girl. He tries in vain to help her.
Next morning he asks Karim Khan the mystery ofthe marching footsteps,
the screams, the torture.
Persian girl.

Karim Khan relates the story of that beautiful

