' ounctthtsrountm
. टू

हैं"

-

~र

s’.

.

W

८

क्यूँ he stage is set for the 9th Aga
Paciﬁc Bureau (APB) meet

of drama school at national
… . है i. Capital’s National School
Of Drama. Fourteen schools from
India, Bangladesh, China, Indonesia,
Iran, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia,

Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, will
gather at NSD premise for the annual
meet, which is scheduled for Octo~
ber 19-25. Overall the festival will see
the representation from twenty coun—

tries in form ofobservers, faculty and
students '
ProfWaman Kendre, Director,
National School of Drama, says, “This

is yet another occasion where all Asia
Paciﬁc Bureau school will show their

strengthand exchange it to each other.
This is also a platform for NSD to show
rich Indian performance heritage and
showcase Contemporary and traditional' theatre variety to the world”

the school’s training methodologies
through a series of exercises for the
participants. There will also be a practical session, where a studio space will
be provided to each school to perform.
Participating schools will perform
a 45—minute student presentation,
which will be held in the Flexible Performance Space at NSD.
The theme of this edition of APB
meet is ‘The strength of Asia in Con—
temporary Performance Culture.’ The
conﬂuence will examine contempo—

The participating schools explore the
है
nuances of different cultures in theatre‘wperformanoes and the technical
aspects ofit through the annual meet.
This edition ofthe festival has an elaborate learning program for the partici— rary performance culture in Asia, the
pating schools. It will consist of festival elements of traditionalism, modern—
performances, directors’ meet, inter- ization and other factors that have tion of the APB meet, says, “Cross
actions and workshops. Each school contributed to it in terms of content, culture mixing and matching themes,
will conduct a workshop for all other form and style. Tripurari Sharma, Pro- stories and performative concepts are
participants providing a glimpse into fessor, NSD, who is heading this edi- enriching for the art of theatre. “ The
7

पां

W नं श्लोमो W . शांन्ति

event will also delve deeper into the
artistic capabilities of different Asian
countries and how a cultural exchange
between themand with the rest ofthe
world could be facilitated. '
“Has Asia got anything unique to

traditional art forms like '118धां८
‘chau’, ‘mallakhamba’ and suﬁ musi

among others.

.

About Asia—Paciﬁc Bureau (AP इमु

of Theatre School: The Asia~Pacif1 ष
Bureau (APB) of Theatre School a.

३ » offer the world in terms of arts and ' established in 2008 under UN’ES

culture? This issomething that we will
- try to ﬁnd answers to. we want our
students to be ३able to make a mark
in internationaltheatre. They should
३ also get to realise that they have an
identity outside India as well,” Sharma
said. To ensure that language does
not become an impediment during
interactions, the school has arranged
for interpreters in Japanese, Chinese

‘ and Korean languages. NSD’s perfor—
mances during the meet will include

CO’s International Theatre Institute
The aim of the Bureau is to prOmot‘
interaction and exchange among Asi

Paciﬁc theatre schools. APB member
meet annually for sharing, showcas
ing and experimenting with diverse
performance practices and pedagogies of different countries and cultures
in the region. Each year, APB meet is
rotated amongst different member
schools from countries across the As' 4

Paciﬁc region.

