National School of Drama Repertory Company
The Repertory Company of the National School of Drama was formed
on an experimental basis by shri E. Alkazi, who played a major role in
nurturing and expanding the Company when he was Director of the
School (496.77)- In the beginning, the Company consisted of only four
actors. It later expanded into a larger group of actors, musicians and
technicians mainly graduates of the School. Initially, in 1964, the late Om
Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977 Shri Manohar Singh was
appointed the first Chief of the Company. Over the years the Repertory
has produced a variety of plays ranging from stylised musicals to
realistic contemporary works .of Indian plays, to translations and
adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent directors from within the
country and abroad have worked with the Company in the past years.
Apart from performing in Delhi, the Company tours extensively all over
India and has also made successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain,

Nepal and Mauritius.
As part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations the Company toured extensively
and organised the Rang Yatra Theatre Festival in 1991 . It also put up a
special exhibition, Rang Yatra, designed by Shri Bansi Kaul. The work of
the National School of Drama Repertory Company since its inception is
depicted through photographs, models, jewellery, costumes, etc. in this
exhibition. It has been on view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay,
Pune, Goa, Bangalore, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Nasik as well.

In December-January 1992-93, the Repertory paid homage to Mohan
Rakesh, the celebrated playwright, on his 20th death anniversary by
organising a major festival of all his plays and dramatic adaptations of

his short stories.

है

In December 1993, the Repertory participated in the Vishwa Hindi
Sammelan at Mauritius with performances of three of Mohan Rakesh's
plays: Aashad Ka Ek Din. Aadhe-Adhure and Lehron Ke Rajhans.
In 1994 the Company started a new activity - presentation of fringe
performances consisting of dramatic readings of world classic as well as
new plays, enactment of poetry and other experiments in the form,
content and presentation of theatre.

Director

Ram Gopal Bajaj

Business Manager
Stage Manager
Light Technician
Sound Technician
Music In-charge
Wardrobe ln-charge
Workshop ln-charge .
Box Office

T.R. Bakshi
8.8. Patil
G.S. Marathe
S.N. Dasgupta
Om Prakash
Gursharan Kaur
Abdul Hakim
Shriprakash Sharma,
Rarnesh Athwal, Sitararn Yadav,
Tikararn Bhatt

