R E A L IS M D E BATE
Theatre is an illusion of reality : To present reality in such a way that
It. can be grasped, reality cannot be presnted without recognizing its
dialectical nature. It in essential therefore to indicate the conﬂicting,
courtroom-like nature of the situations, events and characters’. '1 he task

of the alienation eiTect was to make it possible to present this dialectical
nature’. The tragic element had to be of secondary importance. Alienation meant to announce a contradiction. To use the alienations effects

to excrte conﬂicting emotions and make dialecticians of the audience,
(Jeorge Lukacs, a Marxist literary historian, was the artistic experience.

Brecht s epic was an attempt to wrench this’ artistic experience’ away
from metaphysics and bring it down to earth.

It is not important that when you die, you be a good man but when
you die you take leave of a healthy society

BERTOLT BRECH'I‘
"Chang the world it needs it"

SUDHlR MAHAJAN (born 1966)

Post Graduate in Hindi & B Ed from Jamrnu University.

Done his post-graduation in Indian Theatre from university of Chandi-

garh in 1993. Attended Theatre workshop with the collaboration of
1990
National School of Dharma New Delhi & Kala Chhaya-Pune, in
Assisted Mr. Bansi Koul-f'amous lndian Theatre Director, & Ms. Dolly
Ahluwalia-ZSth year celeberations of National School of Drama Reperthe
tory Company- Rang yata” New Delhi, & during the same acted in

Play of famous Theatre Direcor-K. S. Rajindran of Sangeet Natak
r-Shri
Acadamy Got his Kathak training from famous Kathak Dance
igarh, estaNarayan Prasad After attaining post graduation from Chind
& Drablished Samooh Theatre and Abhinaya School of Music Dance
children
matic Arts at Jarnrnu. & conducted f'our Theate workshops with
one
and young ones at lammu. Also produced eight plays (full length &

Act as well) Acted and Directed 30 of the dramas & acquired the cetiﬁcates of Merit & Best Actor in the Anual Drama Festivals. And was also

awarded Best Director at All India Shoba Shakti Natiya Samaroh at
Chandigarh in 1995 Presently undergoing P. hd in Hindi.

