ABOUT THE PLAY
_
Round Head and Peak Head is the only play by Brecht that has still not
found a response commensurate with its importance. The reason

why it is so rarely performed is probably because, instead of regarding it as a stage parable on the theme, ’the Reich and the rich are birds
of a feather’, people see it merely as a satirical crypto play about the
racial ideology of the third Reich and its role in relation to the big
capitalists. Brecht wanted, above all, to demonstrate that all reforms,
however well intentioned, turn out to be adroit diversionary measures which only reduce the chances of revolutionary disputes of the
inevitable class war.
Brecht considered the comedy Measure for Measure the most advanced of all Shakespeare’s plays. Shakespeare had taken the plot
from a play by George Whetstone. The old plot provided an excellent basis on which to construct an entirely new story. Shakespeare’ 5
story, in which the Duke of Vienna appoints a deputy whom he
allows to become unpopular in order to avoid blackening his own
good name, gave Brecht the opportunity to demonstrate how little
the principle of justice, so prized by the class-dominated society, is
worth.
The growing importance accorded in 1932 to a man like Hitler led
Brecht to turn the character of Angela to Angelo Iberin—in our
production Bhamborin. He made the character of Iberin more of a
capitalist puppet, to show as the central point of the play, that the
purpose of racial ideology is to divert attention from the class war.
The play is set in a fictitious country called Yahoo. Those in power
see the introduction of taxes as the only way out of the country’s
economic crises that have resulted from overproduction, but they
lack the courage to enforce this because to do so would risk revolt by
oppressed tenant farmers. As a way out, power is transferred to the
racial ideologist Iberin (Bhamborin) who, instead of dividing the
population into poor and rich, divides them into round heads and
peak heads to defeat the revolutionary tenants who have united
under the banner of the ’Sickle’ and have formed an army.
Alongside the story of Iberin, Brecht introduces the story of
Callas, a man who becomes a traitor to his class because he considers

the new racial theory to be a legitimate means of acquiring the two
horses he needs to cultivate his land.
If one disregards the political development of fascism in Germany
and applies the parable to countries in which the situations had
seemed ripe for revolution but had not so developed owing to the
military strength of those in power and lack of unity among the
working classes, there is no reason why the parabolic simplification

of this story should not be convincing and applicable to our context.

