Ajuwa inheriting the prowess of his father and his twenty one uncles grows up into a
brave young man and decides to return to Bafaulikot with his mother.

He comes to know

of the murder of his father and uncles and vows to avenge the crime.

However, due to a

subterfuge,

promises Rani

Bhadrawati

to spare

her

husband and son.

Meanwhile,

Deewan Vigyan Joshi rushes to Bafaulikot to tell Ajuwa of the havoc wrought by 'Malls'.

Joshi offers the command of the Champavat army to Ajuwa Bafaul which he declines but
vows to avenge the murder of his father and uncles.
Chand would be installed the king and marches

He also declares publicly that Ratan

on to Champavat to restore the freedom

of the people and bring them peace.

THE MUSICAL SCORE
While composing the music of Ajuwa Bafaul, we have drawn generously from folk
tunes kept alive by the bards of Kurnaon and Garhwal. To keep the audience posted about
the developments, a Hindi Chorus has been introduced. The opera has been structured in
such a manner that while it retains the musicality of the Original balled, it also helps in
enhancing the dramatic content. At places semi-classical tunes have been used which
form part of the traditional musical repertoire.

Since the drum plays an important role in

the development of events, original rhythmic patterns woven round the 'nagara', ’dhol’ and
’damama' have been used. The story line of Ajuwa Bafaul, as in the case of Rajula Malushahi, differs from bard to bard. The one worked out for the present production is a mix of
several versions prevelant in the region. The sets, costumes and decor have also been
designed keeping in eye on the heroic—which forms the dominant sentiment of the story.
Music has been composed by Mohan Upreti : script is by Brijendra Shah and Brij Mohan
Shah directs the stage production.
There will be three performances of Ajuwa Bafaul at

Karnani

Marg, New Delhi on September 29 Er 30 and October 1, 1982.

आभार प्रदर्शन
पर्वतीय कला-केन्द्र उन सभी के लिये अपना आभार
प्रदर्शक करना चाहता है जिनकी मदद ओंर सहयोग

से 'अजूबा बकौल' का यह मंचन सम्भव हो सका ।
पर्वतीय कला केन्द्र, दिरुली

auditorium, Copernicus

