National School of Drama

Repertory Company
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964 & 65 on an experimental basis by
Sh. E. Alkazi. In the begining, it consisted of only four actors, it later expanded in to a larger group

of actors, musicians and technicians, mainly drawan from graduates of the National School of
Drama, Delhi. In 1964 Late Shri Om Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977, Late Shri Manohar

Singh become the first regular Chief of Repertory when Manohar Singh left the Repertory
Company in 1885, for a short period Miss. Uttra Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked after the

functioning of the company.
Late Shri J.N. Kaushal officiated as the Chief till 1988. From 1989 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj
was handling the company. From 1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal was again functioning as acting
Chief. From 1999 NSD graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma was appointed as the permanent chief of
the Repertory Company.

Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety of plays ranging from stylised musicals to
realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to translations and adaptations of foreign language
plays. Eminent directors of national and international repute from within the country and abroad

have worked with the company.
Repertory has performed over 155 plays by 65 playwrights and has worked with 75 directors.
Quite a few of the actors of the company have emerged over the years as celebrities in theatre,
cinema and television in India. The Repertory tours extensively all over India and has made
several successful trips of Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, Mauritius and Bangladesh.
The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in 1992—93 on his twentieth death anniversary

through a major festival of his plays.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs, set models, costumes, properties,
posters etc. of Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on the occasion of the
Silver Jubilee celebration of the Company. The company celebrated 40 yrs. of its existance on

20th May, 2004.

Business Manager
DeepakWadhwa
'
,
Production Co … or d ma t 0 r
'
I1
Abdul KadIrSha

Box Office
Sita Ram Yadav
Dharmveer
PrithviSinghNegi
Deepika Sinha

Technical Co—ordinator (Light)
Govind Si ng h Yadav
Repertory Chief

Music In charge

Suresh Shanna

O m P ra ka 5 h

Costume In charge
C. S . Bh atia

D i recto r N S D
Wa man Kend re

