AB OUT T H E P L A Y W R I G H T

Born in 4946 in New York, and reared in suburban
Brooklyn, Miller had the usual high school education,
enlivened by a modest football career not unsusual
in the case of a tall raw-boned lad. Going on to the
University of Michigan, after two and a half years of
clerking in an automobile parts warehouse, he found
an understanding teacher in Professor Kenneth E.
Rowe, the author of Write That Play. Miller turned
to playwriting with such devotion that he won the
university's Avery Hopwood award for two successive
years. In 1957 he also received a substantially larger
prize from the Bureau of New Plays, established by
the Theatre Guild director Theresa Helburn. Upon
leaving college in 1938, he first found employment
on the playwriting project of the Federal Theatre.
Fortunately, since the W.P.A. project expired four
months after he joined it, Miller also revealed a talent
for radio writing and was able to settle down to a

simple, semi-sufurfan life in Brooklyn with his wife,
a former Michigan classmate. During the war,

disqualified for military service by an injury he had
sustained while playing football, he worked as a
steamfitter in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and wrote
patriotic radio scripts and one-acters. He also did
some work, in 1942, on the notable Ernie Pyle film
The Story of G. I. joe, spending six months with the
infantry and going on maneuvers while gathering
information for the production. Having kept a diary
of his research, Miller published it in 1944, under
the title of Situation Normal. He had Published a
second book in 4945, a successful novel about race
hatred entitled, Focus. By no means neglecting
playwriting, Miller also wrote several full-length plays
during his apprenticeship, and one of these, The
Man Who Had A// the Luck, a sprawling chronicle,
brought him some recognition in 1944.
in 1947, Miller's nine year-long wrestling with
the dramatic medium reaped its first rewards when
All My Sons had a good run on Broadway, won the
Drama Critics Circle award, and was bought by a
motion picture producer. He had Broadway at his
feet and met Willy Loman's prescription for success
to the letter: he was not only ”liked" but "well liked"
for Death of a Saleman, and achieved an
international reputation. Among his other works are
an adaptation (1 950) of I bsens Enemy of The People
and a play about Salem witch trials, The cruicible
(1953), both containing political implications, and
The Misfits (1961, a screen-play), After the Fall
(1964), and Incident at Vichy (1965).

