A nhur Miller, 1949

In this age few tragedies are written. It has often been held that the lack is due to a paucity of heroes
among us, or else that modern man has had the blood drawn out of his organs of belief by the
skepticism of science, and the heroic attack on life cannot feed on an attitude of reserve and

circurnspection. For one reason or another, we are often held to be below tragedy—or tragedy above
us. The inevitable conclusion is, of course, that the tragic mode is archaic, fit only for the very highly
placed, the kings or the kingly, and where this admission is not made in so many words it is most
often implied.
I believe that the common man is as apt a subject for tragedy in its highest sense as kings were.

On the face of it this ought to be obvious in the light of modern psychiatry, which bases its analysis
upon classic formulations, such as the Oedipus and Orestes complexes, for instances, which were
enacted by royal beings, but which apply to everyone in similar emotional situations.
More simply, when the question of tragedy in art is not at issue, we never hesitate to attribute
to the well-placed and the exalted the very same mental processes as the lowly. And finally, if the
exaltation of tragic action were truly a property of the high-bred character alone, it is inconceivable
that the mass of mankind should cherish tragedy above all other forms, let alone be capable of
understanding it.
As a general rule, to which there may be exceptions unknown to me, I think the tragic feeling is
evoked in us when we are in the presence of a character who is ready to lay down his life, if need
be, to secure one thing—his sense of personal dignity. From Orestes to Hamlet, Medea to Macbeth,
the underlying struggle is that of the individual attempting to gain his “rightful" position in his society.
Sometimes he is one who has been displaced from it, sometimes one who seeks to attain it for

the first time, but the fateful wound from which the inevitable events spiral is the wound of indignity,
compulsion
and its dominant force is indignation. Tragedy, then, is the consequence of a man’s total
to evaluate himself justly.
has been
In the sense of having been initiated by the hero himself, the tale always reveals what

