is it necessarily
called his “tragic flaw,” a failing that is [not peculiar to grand or elevated characters. Nor
need be nothing—but his
a weakness. The flaw, or crack in the character, is really nothing—and

a challenge to his
inherent unwillingness to remain passive in the face of what he conceives to be
their lot without
dignity, has image of his rightful status. Only the passive, only those who accept
active retaliation, are “flawless.” Most of us are in that category.
the scheme
But there are among us today, as there always have been, those who act against
out of fear
d
accepte
have
we
ng
everythi
action
of
of things that degrades them, and in the process
ht by an
onslaug
total
this
from
and
d,
or insensitivity or ignorance is shaken before us and examine
examination of the
individual against the seemingly Stable Cosmos surrounding us—from this total
ted with tragedy.
associa
ly
“unchangeable” environment—comes the terror and the fear that is classical
we learn.
ioned,
More important, from this total questioning of what has previously been unquest
thirty
past
And such a process is not beyond the common man. I n revolutions around the world, these
years, he has demonstrated again and again this inner dynamic of all tragedy.

Insistence upon the rank of the tragic hero, or the so-called nobility of his character, is really but
a clinging to the outward forms of tragedy. If rank or nobility of character was indispensable, then
it would follow that the problems of those with rank were the particular problems of tragedy. But surely
the right of one monarch to capture the domain from anther no longer raises our passions, nor are
our concepts of justice what they were to the mind of an Elizabethan king.

The quality in such plays that does shake us, however, derives from the underlying fear of being
displaced, the disaster inherent in being torn away from our chosen image of what and who we are
in this world. Among us today this fear is as strong, and perhaps stronger, than it ever was. In fact,
it is the common man who knows this fear best.
Now, if it is true that tragedy is the consequence of a man’s total compulsion to evaluate himself
justly, his destruction in the attempt posits a wrong or an evil in his environment. And this is precisely

the morality of tragedy and its lesson. The discovery of the moral law, which is what the enlightenment
of tragedy consists of, is not the discovery of some abstract or metaphysical quantity.

