The tragic right is a condition of life, a condition in which the human personality is able to flower
and realize itself. The wrong is the condition which suppresses man, perverts the flowing out of his

love and creative instinct. Tragedy enlightens—and it must, in that it points the heroic finger at the
enemy of man’s freedom. The thrust for freedom is the quality in tragedy which exalts. The revolutionary questioning of the stable environment is what terrifies. In no way is the common man debarred
from such thoughts or such actions.
Seen in this light, our lack of tragedy may be partially accounted for by the turn which modern
literature has taken toward the purely psychiatric view of life, or the purely sociological. If all our
miseries, our indignities, are born and bred within our mind, then all action, let alone the heroic action,

is obviously impossible.
And if society alone is responsible for the cramping of our lives, then the protagonist must needs
be so pure and faultless as to force us to deny his validity as a character. From neither of these views

can tragedy derive, simply because neither represents a balanced concept of life. Above all else,
tragedy requires the finest appreciation by the writer of cause and effect.
No tragedy can therefore come about when its author fears to question absolutely everything,
when he regards any institution, habit or custom as being either everlasting, immutable or inevitable.
In the tragic view the need of man to wholly realize himself is the only fixed star, and whatever it

is that hedges his nature and lowers it is ripe for attack and examination. Which is not to say that
tragedy must preach revolution.
The Greeks could probe the very heavenly origin of their ways and return to confirm the rightness
of laws. And Job could face God in anger, demanding his right and end in submission. But for a
moment everything is in suspension, nothing is accepted, and in this stretching and tearing apart of
the cosmos, in the very action of so doing, the character gains “size," the tragic stature which is
spuriously attached to the royal or the highborn in our minds. The commonest of men may take on
that stature to the extent of his willingness to throw all he has into the contest, the battle to secure
his righful place in his world.
There is a misconception of tragedy with which I have been struck in review after review, and
in many conversations with writers and readers alike. It is the idea that tragedy is of necessity allied
to pessimism. Even the dictionary says nothing more about the word than that it means a story with
a sad or unhappy ending. This impression is so firmly fixed that I almost hesitate to claim that in truth
tragedy implies more optimism in its author than does comedy, and that its final result ought to be
the reinforcement of the onlooker’s brightest opinions of the human animal.
For if it is true to say that in essence the tragic hero is intent upon claiming his whole due as

a personality, and if this struggle must be total and without reservation, then it automatically demonstrates the indestructible will of man to achieve his humanity.
The possibility of victory must be there in tragedy. Where pathos rules, where pathos is finaly
derieved, a character has fought a battle he could not possibly have won. The pathetic is ahieved
when the protagonist is, by virte of his witlessness, his insensitivity or the very air he gives off,
inCapable of grappling with a much superior force.Pathos truly is the mode for the pessimist. But
tragedy requires a nicer balance between what is possible and what is impossible. And it is curious,
although edifying, that the plays we revere, century after century, are the tragedies. ln them, and in
them alone, lies the belief—optimistic, if you will, in the perfectibility of man.
It is time, I think, that we who are without kings, took up this bright thread of our history and
followed it to the only place it can possibly lead in our time—the heart and spirit of the average man.

