IN RETROSPECT.H

|

After the production of Death of Salesman, Arthur Miller was celebrated throughout the land as the
second new dramatist to have assured the survival of significant play-writing in America. (The first
had been Tennessee Williams.) The play won both the Pulitzer Prize and the Drama Critics Circle
award, as well as sundry other prizes. Although Miller’s earlier play, All My Sons, had been well
received, there had been reason to doubt its author’s originality and dramatic range. Once Death of
a Salesman opened in Manhattan, only his originality could be questioned, since his materials,

including his style of dialogue, were familiar. Except in the opinion of a few fastidious observers,
however, the vigor of the new play made an academic matter of the question of how new the
subject was. The characters and the background were, indeed, fresh precisely because they were
so vividly recognizable, and Miller’s compassionate scrutiny of little lives communicated itself spontaneously to his public; or so it seemed to audiences, although the author actually kept a firm hand

on his sequence of events and revelations. Miller here employed flexible drarnaturgy, moving from a
present crisis to eruptive scenes of reminiscence. Consequently, he was able to give his story some
of the extensiveness and richness of a novel without losing dramatic power. The play displayed life
multi-dimensionally or, so to speak, in depth.
For these and other reasons, Miller was acclaimed as the outstanding new dramatist of the
forties or, at the least, Tennessee Williams’ equal among the decade’s discovered playwrights.
Although Miller’s language was not regarded as equal to Williams’ dialogue, his picture of reality
was considered more representative and significant. It was in his favour, too, that he demonstrated
to those who were familiar with his earlier work that he was capable of artistic growth, having
graduated from the “well-made play” grammar school of modern playwrights. As he himself
declared, “the conventional play form forces the writer to siphon everything into a single place at a
single time, an squeezes the humanity out of a play. Why shouldn’t a play have the depth, the
completeness, and the diversity of a novel?”

In 1949, Death of Salesman clirnaxed a slow advance on the Broadway scene and a steady
development of skill and powers and soon he had Broadway at his feet and met Willy Loman’s
prescription for success to the letter: he was not only “liked” but “well liked” for Death of a

Salesman
Brooks Atkinson, in The New York Times, called Death of a Salesman “one of the finest dramas
in the whole range of the American theatre,” and John Mason Brown referred to the production,
brilliantly directed by Elia Kazan, as “one of the modern theatre’s most overpowering evenings."
John Chapman of the New York Daily News concurred, describing it as “one of those unforgettable
times in which all is right and nothing is wrong.” Even the usually more sceptical Wolcott Gibbs,

writing in The New Yorker, set it down as “a tremendously affecting work... told with a mixture of
compassion, imagination, and hard technical competence you don’t often find in the theatre today.”
And the hardly less exacting reviewer of Time, Louis Kronenberger, described the play as “so
simple, central, and terrible that the run of playwrights would neither care nor dare to attempt it.”

The play also won considerable success abroad, and was received with particular enthusiasm in
Vienna. English reviewers and playgoers took a more reserved View of Willy Loman's story. Ivor

Brown, writing in The New York Times of August 28, 1949, explained that the salesman is not a
national type in England, and that the English have too much contempt for “the life of the party”
and “smiles into diamonds” philosophy of success to be stirred by Willy’s failure. Death of a
Salesman won greater commendation form the British as “a skillful piece of stagecraft” than as a
waterfall of compassion. Yet for the British, too, the play made substantial claims as a “little man’s”

tragedy. Ivor Brown noted that “now on both sides of the Atlantic we have stool tragedies, not
throne tragedies,” and that “it is the clerk, not the king, who inspires the tragedian.”

BEST AMERICAN PLAYS
Third Series 1945-51, Edited by JOHN GASSNER

