For the ancient Greeks, at least for Aristotle, pathos was the destructive or painful act common in
tragedy; but in English “pathos” refers to an element in art or life that evokes tenderness or sympathetic
pity. Modern English critical usage distinguishes between tragic figures and pathetic figures by
recognizing some element either of strength or of regeneration in the former that is not in the latter. The
tragic protagonist perhaps acts so that he brings his destruction upon himself, or if his destruction
comes from outside, he resists it, and in either case he comes to at least a partial understanding of the
cause of his suffering. The pathetic figure, however, is largely passive, an unknowing and unresisting
innocent. In such a view Macbeth is tragic, Duncan pathetic; Lcar is tragic, Cordelia pathetic; Othello is
tragic, Desdemona pathetic; Hamlet is tragic (the situation is not of his making, but he does what he
can to alter it), Ophelia pathetic. (Note, by the way, that of the four pathetic figures named, the first is
old and the remaining three are women. Pathos is more likely to be evoked by persons assumed to be
relatively defenseless than by the able-bodied.)
The guardians of critical terminology, then, have tended to insist that “tragedy” be reserved for a
play showing action that leads to suffering which in turn leads to knowledge. They get very annoyed
when a newspaper describes as a tragedy the death of a promising high school football player in an
automobile accident, and they insist that such a death is pathetic not tragic; it is unexpected, premature,
and deeply regrettable, but it does not give us a sense of man’s greatness achieved through
understanding the sufferings that a sufferer has at least in some degree chosen. Probably critics hoard
the term “tragedy" because it is also a word of praise: to call a play a comedy or a problem play is not
to imply anything about its merits, but to call a play a tragedy is tantamount to calling it an important or
even a great play. In most of the best-known Greek tragedies the protagonist either does some terrible
deed, or resists mightily. But Greek drama has its pathetic figures too, figures who do not so much act
as suffer. Euripides’ The Trojan Women is perhaps the greatest example of a play which does not allow
its heroes to choose and to act but only to undergo, to be in agony. When we think of pathetic figures
in Greek drama, however, we probably think chiefly of the choruses, groups of rather commonplace
persons who do not perform a tragic deed but who suffer in sympathy with the tragic hero, who lament
the hardness of the times, and who draw the spectators into the range of the hero’s suffering.
That the spectators were not themselves heroic figures seems to have been assumed by the
Greeks and by the Elizabethans; at least there are usually these lesser choral figures, nameless
citizens, who interpret the action and call attention to the fact that even highly placed great heroes are
not exempt from pain: indeed, high place and strenuous activity invite pain: the lofty pine tree, or the
mariner who ventures far form the coast, is more likely to meet destruction that the lowly shrub or the
fair-weather sailor. For Greeks of the fifth century 8.0., and for Elizabethans, high place was not a
mere matter of rank, but of worth. In both ages, it was of course known that a king may be unkingly,
but it was assumed that kingship required a special nature — though that nature was not always
forthcoming. Put it this way: tragedy deals with kings not because they are men with a certain title
(though of course the title does give them special power), but because they are men with a certain
nature. This nature is an extraordinary capacity for action and for feeling; when they make an error its
consequences are enormous, and they themselves feel it as lesser people would not. When Oedipus is
polluted, all of Thebes feels it. Arthur Miller is somewhat misleading when he argues that because
Oedipus has given his name to a complex that the common man may have, the common man IS .
therefore “as apt a subject for tragedy." It is not Oedipus' “complex" but his unique Importance that IS
the issue in the play. Moreover, even if one argues that a man of no public importance may suffer as
much as a man of public importance (and surely no one doubts this), one may be faced With the fact
that the unimportant man by his ordinariness is not particularly good material for drama, and we are
here concerned with drama, rather than with life. In Death of a Salesman Willy Loman’s Wife says,
rightly, “A small man can be just as exhausted as a great man". Yes, but is his exhaustion itself
interesting, and do his activities (and this includes the words he utters) before his exhaustion have
interesting dramatic possibilities? Isn’t there a colorlessness that may weaken the play, an
impoverishment of what John Milton called “gorgeous tragedy”?

.

.

Inevitably the rise of the bourgeoisie brought about the rise of bourgeois. drama, and In the _

eighteenth century we get a fair number of tragedies With prologues that in3ist that characters like

