ourselves deserve our pity:
No fustian hero rages here tonight,
No armies fall, to fix a tyrant’s right.
From lower life we draw our scene’s distress:
—Let not your equals move your pity less.
George Lil/o, Fatal Curiosity (1733)

(bombastic,
Note the deflation of older tragedy, the implication that its heroes were “fustian”
ns. Or, to put it
aspiratio
pretentious) rather than genuinely heroic persons of deep feelings and high
(in this view)
rank
but
rank,
high
differently, older tragedy in the bourgeois view dealt with persons of
middlethe
whom
with
rank
middle
is not significant; therefore one may as well show persons of
fustian
(“no
activities
heroic
of
dismissal
the
class audience may readily identify. At the same time,
road
the
on
well
are
we
that
indicates
“distress”
of
ion
hero rages,” “no armies fall”) and the substitut
to The Hero As Victim.
And we have kept on that road. As early as the sixteenth century Copernicus had shown that
bulk of
man and his planet were not the center of the universe, but the thought did not distress the
not a
was
man
men until much later. In 1859 Darwin published The Origin of Species, arguing that
in the
him
aided
had
s"
special creation but a creature that had evolved because “accidental variation
Darwin)
to
Capital
d
dedicate
to
struggle for survival. At about the same time, Marx (who wished
argued that economic forces guided men’s lives. Early in the twentieth century Freud seemed to
argue that men are conditioned by infantile experience and are enslaved by the dark forces of the id.
All in all, by the time of the Depression of the 1930’s, it was difficult to have much confidence if
man’s ability to shape his destiny. The human condition was a sorry one; man was an insignificant
lust-ridden, soulless creature in a terrifying materialistic universe. He was no Oedipus whose moral
pollution infected a great city, no Brutes whose deed might bring civil was to Rome. He was really
not much of anything, except perhaps to a few who immediately depended upon him.
Arthur Miller accurately noted (Theatre Arts, October, 1953) that American drama “has been a
steady year by year documentation of the frustration of man," and it is evident that Miller has set out
to restore a sense of importance if not greatness to the individual. In "Tragedy and the Common
Man," published in the same year that Death of a Salesman was produced and evidently a defense
of the play, he argues on behalf of the common man as a tragic figure and he insists that tragedy
and pathos are very different: “Pathos truly is the mode of the pessimist....The plays we revere,
century after century, are the tragedies. In them, and in them alone, lies the belief—optimistic, if you
will—in the perfectibility of man." Elsewhere (Harper’s, August 1958) he has said that pathos is an
oversimplification and therefore is the “counterfeit of meaning." Curiously, however, many spectators
and readers find that by Miller’s own terms Willy Lornan fails to be a tragic figure; he seems to them
pathetic rather than tragic, a victim rather than a man who acts and who wins our esteem. True, he
is partly the victim of his Own actions (although he could have chosen to be a carpenter, he chose to
live by the bourgeois code that values a white collar), but he seems in larger part to be a victim of
the system itself, a system of ruthless competition that has no place for the man who can no longer
produce. (Here is an echo of the social-realist drama of the thirties.) Willy had believed in this
system; and although his son Biff comes to the realization that Willy “had the wrong dreams," Willy
himself seems not to achieve this insight. Of course he knows that he is out of a job, that the
system does not value him any longer, but he still seems not to question the values he had
subscribed to. Even in the last minutes of the play, when he is planning his suicide in order to

provide money for his family—really for Biff—he says such things as “can you imagine his magnificence with twenty thousand dollars in his pocket?" and “When the mail comes he’ll be ahead of
Bernard again.” In the preface to his Connected Plays Miller comments on the “exultation” with which
Willy faces the end, but it is questionable whether an audience shares it. Many people find that
despite the gulf in rank, they can share King Lear’s feelings more easily than Willy’s.
Perhaps, however, tradition has been too arbitrary in its use of the word “tragedy." Perhaps we
should be as liberal as the ancient Greeks were, who did not withhold it from any play that was
serious and dignified.
TYPES OF DRAMA
Sylvan Barnet, Morton Berrnan, William Burto

