This brutal system ofCoolie Begaar was imposed by

the colonial officers in the beginning of the
Nineteenth century when British defeated Corkhas
who ruled Carhwal and Kumaon during those days.
To consolidate their hold on this mountainous
region the officers had to travel round to far fl ung
areas. Means of transportation were non—existent.
Officer's beds, kitchen utensils and ofﬁcial records

were to be carried by local people for days together.

Ration, milk, vegetables, goats and chickens were to
be supplied by villagers. The supply of required
material and the performance ofduty as a collie were

mandatory. The farmers were rarely paid. Every
village had to supply labourers ﬁxed by the
authorities. The Village head used to keep a register
for this purpose. Even sick and old were not spared.

The village head under the patronage of the petty
ofﬁcials used to recruit labourers

in a callous,

arbitrary and inhuman manner.

This kind ofunpaid forced labour caused a great deal
ofresentment among the people. To avoid this hated
and arduous work, villagers often used to ﬂee from
their homes and used to hide in the forest and when

caught, theywere punished severely.

The play Coolie Begaar seeks to dramatize this
inhuman system and peoples' suffering and their

intense yearning for freedom. The characters are
ordinary people but they display extraordinary

courage to defy a brute force. We admire these
unlettered and unknown people. The play also

depicts the hardships the collies face while
performing their duties. The ofﬁcers stay in Dak
Bungalow well protected from the winter cold,
coolies are condemned to shiver in open during
night haults.

Among these characters is a priest who is forced to
join coolies. He carries a sack on his head. As he
Walks, the containers inside the sack start clattering.
When he is told that the sack he is carrying contains

pot being used by Sahibs and Memsaibs as toilet, he
throws the sack and goes to Haridwar to undergo
the
puriﬁcation ritual. A newly married young man is

also here and his bride disguised as a boy follows her
__

