T H E DIRECTOR
they together initiated a Youth The- of sorts by bringing to India an Indian
atre Movement. Mohan Maharishi play Andhayug, with a foreign cast,
was further retained as Cultural Ad- from abroad. He repeated the feat in
viser to the Prime Minister by the 1983 when he took a Punjabi play,
Government ofMauriti us for a period Rani Jindan, to the United States and
Canada.
of three years.
Mohan Maharishi got the Sangeet
He returned to India in 1979 to
head the Department of Drama, Natak Akadern i award from his home
Punjab University, Chandigarh. state, Rajasthan in the year 1993. In
Considering his eminence in the field, 1992, he won the prestigious Nahe was directly taken on as Professor, tional Award for his service to Indian
a job that he sti | I retains.
theatre, an honour conferred on him
In 1 984, the NS D Society requested by the President of India on 3 Febru—
him to take over the Di rectorsh i p of ary 1993. Recently, he produced and
the National School of Drama. He directed his first experimental film Ek
worked as Head of NSD until August Tha Raja.
1986, when he resigned because of
Mohan Maharishi is currently didifferences with the management.
recting a special experimental
In his 30-year career as director, project—Theatre Lab—for U.C.C.
teacher, actor, designer and writer, Under this project, he has just diMohan Maharishi has created several

rected a version of the Mahabharata

important works; notable amongst

which is currently touring northern
India.

them are his productions of regional
Indian playwrights like Adya
Rangacharya, Badal Sircar, Girish

Besides trans lati ng Stri ndberg’s The
Father and Jean Paul Sartre’s Men

Karnad, Mohan Rakesh and Dr

Without Shadows, he has adapted

Dharrnavir Bharati.

Kafka’s famous novel The Trial in

Jean-Paul Sartre’s Men Without

Hindi, titled Joseph Ka Muqqaddama

Shadows , Anou i l h’s Antigone, Bertolt

Brecht’s The Mother, George Ber-

and Peter Shaffer’s play Equus—titl ed
E’Tash in Hindi. He is the author of

nard Shaw’s Pygrnalion, Durenmatt’s

two original plays—Dr. Einstein and

The Visit, Moliere’s The Miser, and

Natak Ke Beech—a comedy.

Kafka’s The Trial are some of h is best—
known productions of foreign play-

wrights.
Mohan Maharishi has toured extensively all over the world to see
theatre and participate in seminars
and discussions as an Indian del-

egate. He has personally met and had
discussions with world renowned
theatre figures like actress Helena
Wigel, directors like Peter Brook, Pe-

ter Stein, Karlos Khun, Eugino Barba,

Satyajit Ray, Tadashi Suzuki and
playwright Heiner Muller.
Mohan Maharishi created history

