T H E P LAYW R l G HT’ S NOTE

The beginning of this century regis—
tered a marked change in the direc-

into ch i ldren’s course books all over
the world, it is logical to ask, why

tion of thought. Einstein’s contribu-

write a play on this subject? It is an
amazing fact that despite this proliferati on of material the people at large
have remained ignorant of the departures made by Einstein. Outside the

tion to this change was enormous as
far as the science of the inanimate
world is concerned. What is now
known as Classical Physics, began
with Copernicus, Kepler and Gal i leo
and later synthesized in Newtonian
physics. The advent of Newton marks
the completion of an important phase

in analytical dynamics. To this, if we
add Maxwell’s theory of the electromagnetic field, Hertz’s work on op-

scientific community it is rare to meet
an individual who can broadly explain sorne of the basic concepts,
with some clarity. It would be even
rarer to find someone who has al—

lowed Einstein’s concepts to alter his
perception of real ity. I personally was

tics as its consequence, and also in-

very surprised to know that there is

clude Boltzmann's statistical inter-

only one Canadian play on Einstein

pretation of the second law of ther-

and that too does not go beyond a

modynamics, the picture of classical
physics is almost complete.

collection of anecdotes from his life
and merely seeks to enhance the charisma of the man. I know, many argu-

The logical structure which acted as
the basis of these theories, pre—supposed a sharp distinction between
objective and subjective reality. The
events in the outside world follow a
strictly causal development and the
space/ti me in which these events oc-

ments can be advanced to explain
and even defend this gap, but nothing
can convince me that there are no

cur is absolute, which means, ifat any
given time we have complete

tific person like me, to get into such

knowledge of the state of an object,
its future development can be charted
with mathematical certainty.

The greatness and courage of Einstein
lies in the fact that he made the first
break-through i n th is wel l-establ i shed
and exceedingly successful logical
structure. Through his two theories of
Relativity, Special and General,
Einstein altered our concepts of space
and time in a manner that seemed
shockingly radical at that time.

strong biases lurking beneath this and

similar other negligences.
The second reason, for a non-scienan arduous and highly risky venture is
that, I personally love the subjectrnatter at this stage of my life, though
I hated physics and mathematics in
my school and college days. Today I
am certain that my earlier indifference to science in general had noth-

i ng to do with the development of my
brain, but was only a reflection on the

quality and methods of teaching
available to me. l have explained the
social and personal reasons for get—

ting involved in a discipline in which
I was totally uninitiated. But I think
there was a deeper artistic urge wh ich
Today, when his contribution to propelled me to create an interdisci—
physical thought is well documented pl inary work in which I could enjoy
in hundreds of popular and scientific exploring the creative tension be—
books and papers, and in fact his tween apparent content and form.
major concepts have already gone This point needs just a little elabora-

