TH E D I R ECTO R’ 5 NOTE

subject matter on stage in an exciting

5. The next two parts of the trilogy
will show the exit of the Star leaving
the debate open, with people like
Neil Bohr, Werner Heisenberg and

theatre language before the public.

other eminent scientists still strug-

This Project

1. The overall quest is to bring new

gling at the forefront of human
2. This particular production, the story
till 1905, is the first part of a trilogy l
have conceived on the work of Albert
Einstein who along with his great
colleagues radically changed our

knowledge.

6. I am thankful to the National School
of Drama, Dr. Namvar Singh and

Prof. N.C. Jain for providing this opportunity to me. I also express my
our entire life process. The world, gratitude to Prof. A.S. Bhatia and Dr.
inside and outside science,is still R.C. Verma ofthe Physics Department
struggling to come to terms with his ofthe Panjab University, Chandigarh,
extraordinary findings. Undoubtedly who not only happily collaborated
a very large number of people even with me in creating the script but
now are left out of the process of constantly helped me to go on a path
change which came about as a result which was never easy for me to tread.
of intellectual fermentation in the My grateful thanks are also due to Shri
scientific world at the beginning of Vasant Sathe and Shri Ram Niwas
the century which is now end i ng.The Mirdha for greatly encouraging me.
implications of such a theatrical
Mohan Maharishi
project for a developing country are
obvious.

world view and consequently affected

3. This play first endeavours to estab—
lish the broad, but rigid, cosmological framework provided by Aristotelian books as preserved in ancient
Rome. The model provided by
Aristotle was taken by the later sets of
theologies (particularly the Jewish| sl am i c-Ch ri sti an) and perpetrated for
almost two thousand years until
Copernicus and Galileo effectively
challenged it. Centuries later we had
people like Newton and Einstein who
brought in changes that were radical
and far-reaching.
4. The second act of the play quickly
focuses on the work and personality
of Einstein and tries to chart out the
complex and often painful yet highly
emotional and passionate search for
order in chaos or vice-versa.

