{to produce or not to product?
by B. N A R A I N
To produce or not to produce was never
the question before me and I believe that it
will never be the question before me.
Because I believe that like all creative
activity, production also has an appeal apart
from the initial success or failure. So far as
a producer is concerned, he primarily and in
so many cases essentially produces for himself. It is altogether a different side 'of the
picture that the production is seen by an
audience also.
The art of drama production, however, has a different slant from other art
forms in so far as it presupposes a set of
actors and the audience. And here comes
the most difficult part of the story for the

producer.

Right from the initial stage of

the selection of the cast and the script, he
has to find a story which has an emotional
appeal for himself and the actors and actresses

who will be not only capable of putting them
into emotional alignment with the characters that they are portraying but also be able
to touch the audience on the same level.
I particularly stress the emotional aspect
in so far as that seems to me the only creative
aspect of acting. What I have seen of productions in Delhiin particular and in India
in general, I have always painfully realised
that only a series of attitudes and patterns
are meant to be conveyed, nothing of the

living

human

being is disclosed to us.

Although I cannot call myself an amateur
producer, I am fully aware of the series of
handicaps faced in an amateur production.
The first difficulty is the availability
of a good script. In the absence of professional stage, really good scripts are difficult
to find. The problem is made still. more
complicated because quite often it Is not
realised that the style of production .is no-

thing like a rigid formula.

If a scrlpt has

some potentialities, the type of production
should be so chosen as to bring out the
max1mum and make the Whole thing into a
p1ece_ of art. It will not be out of place to
mentlon here that a whole crop of criticism
was levelled against the plays of Shakespeare
that they are not fit for the stage. But now
not one of them are left out of the stage for
the s1mple reason that different methods
of production are adopted for different
plays according to the needs of the play.
It IS quite interesting to note that we
have. been completely divorced from our own
classm plays simply because we are not able
to think of any other method of production
except the realistic. I yet believe that by
varying the style of production wa can very
conveniently meet the problem of shortage
of scripts.
Then comes the problem of the cast, no
less difficult than that of the script. In every
town there are a set of people who appear
on the stage and it is not very easy to coax
others out of their shyness even if they have
the necessary talent to appear on the stage

and portray a role.

So the whole thing boils

down to either selecting the cast from
amongst them or abandoning the production.
I would not mind that, although it amounts
to getting dictations regarding the terms etc.
What I do mind is that most of them do not
know the job they have to do on the stage.

I find it difficult to resist from narrating a
simple incident.

play

I was doing the casting of a particular
The so—called artistes had all assem—

bled.

After two or three play-readings by

rotating the roles I had tentatively fixed the
whole thing up in my mind. The assembly
broke up. And then it happened. People
started coming to me and I had to hear this.
" Well, I/he/she have [has always appeared in
the role of the hero/her ine. We know

