another adores Shakespeare is like distaste
for olives and preferences for pearls. It is a
personal reaction.

Once this is conceded, it ought to be
possible for the artiste and the critic to put
their relationship on a constructive, valuable
and helpful basis
What the artiste feels about it, I don't
know. But as a critic I have found from experience that, however much sense of humour
the artiste may have about everything else,
he has no sense of humour about his work
whatever. He guards his product, be it a
play or a novel, as tigress guards its cub,

and gets furious if anyone dare even raise a
finger.

culties, their handicaps. The play itself might
have been weak in plot and characterisation;
the leading lady might have fainted just
before the performance; the technician might
have eloped with the female prompter; the
hero might have quarrelled with the director.
These are enough to ruin the performance of
a play, but all drama groups have to con—
tend themselves with such mishaps. The
critic, as I said before, is only interested in
the result.
The critic’s viewpoint is, I think, ex—
pressed best in these words of Philip ३ Hope-

Wallace = “You don't have to be an egg to
make an omelette; nor a cook to know
a good omelette from a bad one; above all,
not a personal friend of the cook and in

difficulties in testing his omelette because
This is not a healthy attitude, for, as
Aristotle said, the eater, not the cook, is

you know his wife is deceiving him and that
the kitchen caught fire earlier in the day. A

the best judge of the dinner. It is true that

gOurmet needs some experience of cooking

a lot of preparation goes into a stage presentation. To produce a play is a very tiring
and trying work. All those associated with it
director, stage technicians, actors and othersput into it all they have of imagination, skill
and technique. 50 when the the critic dis—
misses the production in a couple of paragraphs with a word or two of praise at the
end, they feel offended.

in different parts of the world and a reasonably clean palate; but the palate is the
important thing.” This is the neatest answer
to tnose who sneer at critics because they
have never acted or written or produced a
play themselves.

They do not seem to believe that the
critic may after all be right. The disparity
between the high intention of a devoted cast
and the end result is often considerable, and
the cast are the last people who can see it.
They know the difficulties they have overcome, and they feel that they have performed
a miracle. No doubt they have. But still the
critic may have to complain that the result
is not good enough, and it is the result with
which he has to concern himself.

This much about the artistes. And now
a word about the role of the critic. Criticism
is defined in the dictionary as “a judgment
of the beauties and faults in any production
of the fine arts". While criticism is jugdment,

it is not

necessarily

unfaVOurable

judgment. The finding of fault is only one
legitimate function of criticism; another is
the finding of virtue. A critic, as Nigel
Balchin once remarked, is a judge, but not
the one who sits on the bench to administer
penal laws; he is the sort of judge who operates at the local flower show; he too looks for
faults but he also looks for virtues and if he
finds enough virtues in an entry he may even

The cast should not expect him to make
allowance for their limitations, thelr diffi-

give a prize. That, I believe, is the true
function of the critic.

