Stage:

,

("Zanagepo ट्वे
C3 rum (5(ea '
_ by
.
'
M. 5. BED!
It has been told of a famous producer/
actor of an earlier day that when at a soci-

al function he happened to mention something about‘tehearsals, one of the non;
theatrical lady guests looked at him in
amazement and ”said, “You mean. you go
over it before hand"; This seems ludicrous
now, even to ”the layman, for everyone
has become familiar with the long and gruelling rehearsals "needed ' to achieve the
‘illusion of the first time' in a performance.
Most people are also aware, some from sad
experience, that much advance planning
and promorion must be done in order to
attract a good audience. Some are still
surprised when confronted with the idea
that the stage hands as well as actors have
to rehearse, that to achieve a smooth, fast
moving performance; a competent trained
backstage crew is required, whose every
movement has been just as carefully planned and just as thoroughly learned 'as
those of the actors.
It is worth mentioning here that the
curtain draws the- line between the back-

stage workers and the actors, the former
being of equal, if not more, importance than
the latter. This unseen group without whom
no theatrical production can function, is the
heart and soul of the unit. They are the
persons, who make it possible for the actor
to come on the stage. They are the persons
who work wonders behind the stage. Mak—

ing the yong old or the old young with a
mere brush, turning day into night or night
into day, giving the effects of rain, storm,

clouds, cloudy moonlit nights are some of
their achievements which even go unnoticed.
In a production the Stage Manager, as
the head of the stage crew. is the most powerful and important person next only to Dire-

'Ctor/producer. His duties'and~ responsibilities
are Undefined and unlimited-depending
always upon the group with whom he is
assOciated and the position held by him in
the group. Apart from his own duties, in
an amateur group, the Stage manager has to do
what the producer should normally do him—
self. From the very first day of rehearsals he is
the first to come and the last to go and
he
rehearsals
for the - whole of the
has to give his full and undivided attention and concentration. The most embarra—
ssing position for a Stage Manager is. to see

that the ' female cast and their guardians,
relatives and friends get all the undue attentio and favouritism that they normally expect.
But experience shows that almost all the Stage
Managers fail miserably in this and at times. '
the results are very dangerous One wonders
why such ticklish problems are also left at

the door of the

Stage Manager

who has

enough worries of his own.
Nobody cares to understand or appreciate the position of the Stage Manager.
Not only he is responsible for the regular work
entrusted to him, but he is also held responsi—
ble for the follies and intentional mistakes co—
mmitted by the male and female artists. In
this connection I connot help quoting a very
recent incident.
In the first act of a play there was to be
blue lighting only and therefore in consultation with the Director, I asked the Makeup artists not to use Lip-stick or red rouge to
any of the artists. They did accordingly but
how could our female artists adjust them—
selves to the idea of appearing before the
selected audience without the use of their
beauty aids. When I entered the Green Room
sometime latter, as expected, I found the
heroine giving final touches to her make-up

