by making a free use of Lip-stick. I tried
to explain but as you all know - heroines are
heroines. When I found her on the point
of losmg temper, I left the room thinking
about the conseqences. As expected her
face became dark on the stage. The Director
became furious and almost lost his temper
I did not think it proper and desirable to
explain him the whole position as few more
‘performanae were to be staged.
On the day of the show he is the
busiest and most worried man. Before the
play he has to see that the stage is properly
set, the lights are properly adjusted & so on.
He is fully conscious that one slight mistake
behind the stage may result in the play
becoming flop. Once the show starts his
duties includes 'throwing a line’ in case an
actor ‘goes dry or jumps a cue' and also to
take care of all type of effects. At the end
of the curtain call, the whole team except
him is free and the actors and actresses move just after changing.
He is
then supposed to collect the stage proper—
ties and also to fold and pack the costumes
used in the play. It is always funny to see
him folding blouses and saris for which he
normally does not have any experience unless he is a hen —pecked husband and is
accustomed to do these things at home
also. For an unmarried Stage Manager, any
way, it is a good training for future life although he curses all at that moment.
I do not mean that the Stage Managers
do not wish/to work and are only interested

in self praise and recognition. It is not be—
cause of this that he feels irritated but
because of so many other factors for which

others are directly responsible but will not
listen

even if told.

In

the

Green room

one always find the friends and relatives of
actors and actresses who greatly help in
creating confusion & mis-management. This
has a direct effect on the efficiency of
the Stage-crew and this is the moment
where the Stage Manager usually loses his
temper—of course with ample justification.
Another thing which becomes intolerable is the attitude and bahav10ur of the

cast just before the begining of the show
At this moment they feel their importance
and want to exploit it. This remainds me of
a very interesting incident.
I was the Stage Manager in a play
where the heroine’s mother used to come to
the rehearsal as her guardian. On the day of
the first performance the old lady told me
that due to heavy strain of rehearsals
her daughter has gone weak and she

suggested that after her every exit she should
be provided with a glass of milk and a
couple of biscuits. I could not help laughing
as I had never heard of such a thing before,
but I had to agree. On top of. it I was
asked to get it myself from the canteen as
only I knew of her exit from the stage. I
did not know what to do as the play was to
go on for about five evenings and there were
about six exits daily. Anyway. I did for the
four nights but on the last day told the
canteen man to inform me in her mother’s
presence that every thing had finished. He
did it accordingly and when her mother
heard this she went to the Director to corn—
plain and then there was a lecture in store
for poor me.

It is a great irony of fate that the credit
far a successful production goes primarily to
the cast or in very few cases and that too
very little credit to either the art director
or make-up artist but never to the Stage
Manager who is the overall incharge of the
whole backstage crew. On the other hand
if by some chance the production is not
successful the whole blame; excluding the
shortcomings in lighting scheme, stage
settings etc for which he is of course res—
ponsible, is put on the shoulders of the Stage
Manager. Even the actors and actresses bla—
me the Stage Manager for not providing
proper stage property or for improper colour
of shirt or blouse, or for improper shade of
make—up. One wonders how such things
have a direct bearing on the acting talent of
our so—called heroes and heroines. The
feelings of a Stage Manager can best be

summed up. “He is a man who on the
opening day stands with his back towards
the wall and wishes he were dead. ' '

CONTRIBUTORS To THIS ISSUE
SH RI B. N A RA I N

has recently returned from London after taking a Diploma from London
Academy of Dramatic Arts. At present he is working as Chief
lnstructor,‘$ong and Drama Division (A.|.R.).

SHRI J.D. SINGH
SHRI M. S. BEDI

is capital’s distinguished Radio and Drama Critic.
is a n experienced stage manager—the man who knows

hh job.

