INSTITUTE OF HOME ECONOMICS
(UNIVERSITY OF DELHI)
Our country has marched forward implementing vigourous programmes of economics
and social developments since Independence terrnendous eXpansion has been recorded in
every field of education. A large number of girl students wishing to pursue higher education at the University level face a dilema as to what course will most suitably equip them
for a carrier and qualify them for leading a better life.

With those ends in view, the Institute of Home Economics was founded in 1961 ,
by
some dedicated social workers, and started a course in Home Science laid by
Institute
of Home Economics has chosen the system of education which is functional, and
training
head and hands together, giving them intellectual stimulation to face the world with
confidence. The education the students received also stands for sanctity of family life. It also
leads to new approaches of using science to elevate new and traditional activities. Our
students are not only trained for wholesome family life but are also trained
as Dietitians,
Child Development officers, Social Education Organisers, Social workers, Dress designers,
Institutional Managers 8 various other number of careers.
Home Science Education aims to serve Social 8 economic objective of the present
day needs of our Society. This education is also production oriented, students are equipped for self employment, although in olden days Home Science Education was consider
ed
only for preparing young women for happy married life री good parenthood.
Now our
students receive all round education which gives them training for better life, alongwit
h
social and professional competence.

Though initially a “Dream Child" of Dr. (Mrs) S. Malhan the present Director of the
Institute, this was too gigantic a programme, far beyond the capacity of an
individual. A
Co-operative Home Economics Education Society was formed by a group
of friends and
well wishers, with a meagre capital. The Institute is managed by the Home Economic
s
Education Society a duly registered body. By 1969, the good work done by the Institute
and the various courses run by it was appreciated and recognised by the University of
Delhi. The college, thus, attained affiliation from the academic year 1969-70 and now it
is a constituent college of University of Delhi. The following courses are taught in the
Institute :

1.

B. Sc. Home Science (HONS)

2.

B. Sc. Home Science (Gen.)

