3.

Post graduate Diploma in Dietetics 8 public Health Nutritions.

4.

Ph.D. Students registered.

At present there are about 600 students in the Institute. The results of the students
in the University examination have been gratifying, So far, with number of students securing I Division and distinctions. Dietetics students of PET. course has topped the list
of Saccessful Candidates of the University.

From the very begining the Institute of Home Economics has grown to its present
status due to the dedicated and devoted work of the number of the staff and its students.

The Advisory system is a unique feature of the college. Group of 15 to 20 students
are assigned to a member of the staff for looking after the educational Er personal well
being of each and every student. The students are encouraged to offer the suggestions
and opinions to the advisors which are further discussed by all the members
of the staff,
and those considered useful and conducive towards the improvement of the college
are
implemented.

The National service scheme League is another important activity of
the college.
Literacy classes, village sanitation, medical facilities are a few of
the many projects taken
up by the N.S.S.

THE Institute has also undertaken adult literacy programme
for different socio-econornic levels. Rural women are also trained through Nehru
Yuvak Kendras. They come
for training from all over the country. The Institute is also conduc
ting training programme
for Anganwadi workers. Village camps are also organised
to impart training in nutrition,
child care and other Home Science subjects.

The Institute conducts Seminar/Workshops regula
rly.
In December, 1982, the
Institute had organised a U.G.C. sponsored Natio
nal workshop “Home Science 8 Family
Life Education". In the academic year 1983-84 the
Institute conducted a U.G.C. spon-

sored Workshop "Family Life Education".
The Institute conducts training courses for vario
us levels of integrated Child Development scheme under the Ministry of Social Welfare.

WORKSHOP ATTENDED BY STAFF MEMBERS
Workshop organised by Protein Foods 8 Nutri
tiOnal Developmental Association of
India on “Grain Legumes".

Workshop on the Role of women Voluntee
rs in NS 8. Prcgrammes with special
reference to the status of women.

