Workshop on "involvement of Schools of Social Work and Home Science colleges
in ICDS"
kashop on training in lCDS organised by National Institute of Public Cooperation 8
Child Development.
Workshop on Development of syllabus in Home Economics.
The Foods 8 Nutrition Department organised a workshop "To develop a laboratory
mannual on food preservation for vocational courses which was sponsored by NCERT.
Workshop on “M id year review of Middle level functionaries” held at Nl PCl D.
Staff members of Home management department attended a Workshop on "Fuel

and cooking aspects" at |.l.T.
S E M l N AR S :
Seminars organised by small industries service
Scientists and technologists.

institute and Association of Food
-

Seminar and exhibition organised by AIWC in collobration of the World Food Day.
National seminar on Role of teachers in Family Life Education"
Staff members of Foods 8 Nutrition Department attended a seminar on Foods 8
Nutrition trends and
Agriculture

Perspective in 80" organised by F.N. Board, Ministry of food 8

Two lecturers of clothing 8 Textile department and Home Management participated
in a seminar on “Vocational guidance and

career counselling" at Springdales school.

One of our staff member participated in an international seminar on the problem of
development of the underprivileged communities in the third world countries, SUNCOM
held at Vigyan Bhavan and also participated in the National Seminar sponsored by. UG.C.
on “Modernization of teaching 8 Research Antrhopology" at Univerity of Delhi.

ACHIEVEMENTS 8 PU B L | CATl ON
Dr. (Mrs) S. Ma lhan, Director, was appointed National lecturer in Home Science by
She was also on the Panel of
the University Grants Commission for the year 1982-83
Home Science of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi.
She had won the election of Vice-Presidentship of the lndian Council for Child welfare.
She was also elected to the
Economics, Paris.

Executive

Board of International

Federation for Home

