Every year one or two teachers of this Institute are awarded Ph. D degree for their

Research Work. Dr. (Mrs) S. Kumar, Dr. (Mrs) K. Bhat, Dr. (Mrs) Usha Vij. Dr. (Mrs) P.
Sundararaj 8 Dr. (Mrs) I . Malik have successfully completed their research work in their
respective fields and have been awarded Docorate degree, Miss. S. Jain, Mrs. P. Seetha—
Saff members
rarnan and Mrs. Poonam Sachdev, are registered for Ph. D. studies.
participated and presents papers in the Workshops/Seminars/Panel discussions etc.
Organised by the Govt. and other allied agencies.

PAPER PUBLICATION Er PAPER PRESENTED

Staff member from Chemistry department presented a paper entitled ” Motivation of
Science teaching in Home Science education" and also presented a paper on ,'Purification
and storage of water in the seminar" Water for I ife" organised by the All India Woman’s
conference. The lecturer of Botony Dept. submitted two papers for publication to the
Biology Plantarium Czechoslovakia.
Staff members are encouraged to and are involved in the Research/Project under—
taken from other Govt. Agencies.
Dr. (Mrs) Neeta Singh lecturer in Biochemistry was awarded Post-Doctorate Fellow-

Ship by the Danish Govt. and also were awarded Post- Doctorate Fellowship by the Swiss
Govt. of carrying out research work at the University of Laussane.
College building is the urgent and dire need of the Institute at the moment. Master
degree cannot be offered to students in spite of the demand for them, because of the lack
of accommodation. The Institute has so far been functioning in a accommodation which is
grossly inadequate for even the present requirement. Therefore the need for a proper
building is acutely felt for providing proper education facilities to the students.

We now have a piece of land in Hauz Khas for our new college buildirrngur
Immediate efforts are therefore, directed towards collection of funds for new college building. The Institute look for help, guidance and support- from all generous persons.

