Report
The 4th Intensive Theatre Workshop of National School of Drama, in collaboration with

' Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Arts. Culture and

Languages started its

working on 19th

May, 1980. The informal inauguration was done by Mr. G. N. Dasgutta, Deputy Direct-0r
NSD, who briefed the candidates about the role of National School of Drama in the national
theatre movement and also the achievements of past NSD graduates. He also Stressed on the

extension activities of the school in terms of the Repertory performances, exhibitions, seminars,
exchange services and especially the scheme of Theatre Workshops at different regional centres.
Mr. M. L. Kemmu, Deputy Secretary J&K Academy while thanking NSD for this Theatre
Workshop expressed that the host Academy will extend all help in making this workshop a
success. Prof. Sontakke, the Werkshiop Director briefed the purpose and assured that all
efforts will be made to extend maximum assistance, guidance on all fronts and areas of theatre

arts on the level of theory and practicals with the help of residentials guests and local
contributory staﬁ‘. He also mentioned that a sense of awareness will be infused amongst the
students to know themselves, their enviroment and their purpose of doing theatre.
The formal inauguration took place on Sunday the 25th May, 1980. Mr. M. Y Taing the
Secretary 1&K Academy while welcoming the Minister Mr. M. K. Tikku, the Chief guest of the
evening, thanked NSD for the extension of this workshop.
''

Prof. Sontakke
theatre

world,

it

while

emphasizing the role

NSD in

also , infused a sense of diciplene

and

giving a deﬁnite direction to the
highjyrofesﬁonal‘ standards- under

the able guidance of its past director Mr. E. Alkazi. Mr. B. V. Karanth who is the genious
of a national strature in moulding the school in a different direction making it more introward
and national in its character- He also said that the workshop scheme is extended to diﬁerenat
parts of the country With a view to infuse a new awareness and a vision of theatre.

Mr- M- K' T1kku~ Hon’ble Minister for It'ldustries related the Theatre to the origin of
man, he also emphasized that let there be T. V. and Films, theatre. the lively
form will survive
and do the needful service to the society. He also blessed the students
and expected the
workshop a success.

22 students were selected after an interview audition test by a pannel of experts. The
ﬁrst week time-table was devided in 5 sessions of 1 hour 15 minutes to 1 hour 30 minutes
8216b starting the work at 10.00 a. In. Mr. Yuvraj Sharma, School apprentice and one
of the

residential staﬂ members conducted one session each on Movement, Mime and Yoga practicals
Mr. Subhash Udgata another school apprentice conducted one session on Theatre
History:
Prof. K. Sontakke, the Workshop director conducted two sessions
one on stage—craft and one

on play interpretation and direction.

One session was devoted to library and project werk

Second to Fourth week time-table was extended by one more session.- Mrs:
Kanchan
Sontakke conducted 28 sessions two each on Basic principles of designe, set design,
costume—design
Acting, Makeup, Speech and voice culture and creative Dramatics. and
14 sessions on Dance,
and movement:

