1)
An extensive list of experts
1rect2nNSD.
The experts were
covere in three to four sesswns.
approaches of the experts towards
attached Annexure ‘A”.)

was decided after discussion with the Director and , Dy.
given different areas of coverage with specific topic to be
This scheme provided with different point of Views and
different subjects of their specialisations. (List of experts

LocalA Contri
’
h
d
bUtOFY --- A . 11st,
of about 20 experts, was prepared in consultation with the
0st
ca emy, covering max1mum areas of theatre, music, painting, folk theatre and opera. A
few experts from, Jammu were also invited. (List attached at Annexure HB")

.प
As per dec1510n of NSD, 16 Third year students visited the Theatre workshop
I hey were shown two Bhand Pather performances by local folk group, and as a recipro:
cal .jesture, An Evening of NSD programme,” was arranged at the l'agore Hall for the invited
audience. The students presented two scenes from Laila Majnoon, One mime item and the per—

formance 0f Amal Bimal Kamal Evem Indrajet after the interval. The response to the performance was very warm.
From Fifth week onwards one more session was added j. e. .1000 a. m. to 9. P. M. in
the evening. From 7th week onwards one more session was added i. e. 10 a. m. to 10. 30p. m.

Alongwith the regular time-table and lecture schedule different one acts and some improvisa—

tion where taken for rehearsals and interpretation. It was also planned to put up two even—
ings of short plays and improvisations in Kashmiri and Hindi.
n, Gujrat and Andhra
Alongwith oﬂicial Visitors a team of of painters from Rajastha
of the NSD society, paid a visit to the
visited“the*‘Workshop. Dr. L. M. Singhvi, Chairman

r National School of Drama'
workshop, and complimented the work. Mr. B. V. Karantn, Directo
extension programme; also
who initiated this scheme of Theatre Workshops as part of the Theatre

local theatre. met folk theavisited the workshop. He tried ‘ to understand the requrements of
to have the convocation func—
the people and also the . Academy authorities. He also decided
productions at Jammu and Delhi.
tion at Srinagar and repeat shows of the Workshop

different areas were covered. 60
In the 9—10th weeks of workshop following sessions on
movement. 25 Theatre History, 35 Stage
sess1ons of movement, mime and Yoga, 30 Dance and
rs, 40 Rehearsal (Kashmiri plays),
Craft. 35 play-production and Direction, 45 Guest lecture
40 Rehearsals (Hindi plays).

technical projects on Stage
The students submitted 12-15 written project works and 5
craft and lighting.
their names :The following guest experts gave lectures—talks on subjects given against

1. Dr. Suresh Awasthi
2. Mr. Barrey John
3. Mr. Mohan Maharshi
4. Mrs. Maharshi
5. Mrs, Rita Kathari
6, Smt. Nibha Joshi

Folk Theatre
Direction
Actors role in theatre.
ndian Folk Theatre
Dance & Drama
Classical Indian Theatre Aesthetics

