DIRECTORS NOTE

One feels slightly ackward to talk about our trip, all
the work that went in to it and the play at this stage.
Only when regular performances are on, one can sum
up the experience. So here is a collage of thoughts
that I hope would partially answer questions that
would emerge from a curiosity to know about the
project.
Isn’t it tricky to talk about the approach to theatre at a
stage of world history, specially the last 10-12 years,
during which changes, happenings & maneuvering
of the world events, only makes one halt and wait till
a clear cut way of the world emerges — till a phase
comes during which certain issues are commonly
regarded (like in the earlier part of this century,
Marxist or Capitalist, Dernonstratic or Dictator, all

governments sought or aleast claimed to seek &
Secure social justice and individual rights). But, the
pace at which the recent events have swept away
cultural ideologies, political convictions and spiritual
affiliations, is too fast for us. So what should our art
do that such a phase of social growth (apart from
hinting at the fact that there is thematic dead ness
creeping in) ’Thernatic I’overty’ or ’deadness’, as I
would elaborate, is a state of culture when themes no

more are responded passionately nor with
conviction. In the late Sixties till early eighties,
Marxist values swept all most all part of culture,
passionately & Logically, but what now? when the
ghosts of the first world are seen in the 11nd world walls crumbling, clans gathering...... I
To declaim, the values and place of Dialectics and
other Marxian values in theatre is to do away with a
spine which human history, has over the years built!
'l‘o stick to it in theatre the way we did recently has
become rigid, dogmatic
So here in the lurch of a Dilemma which even art has

to face (apart from Gorbachev)!! .....
In the recent past our theatre has become a
complaining groun Mockeries, attacks, abuses,
shrieks emerging fr m stage, sometimes in
traditional garb, sometimes Badal Sirkarian - all
aimed against forces outside the individuali— the
society, neighbours, unthinking crowds, corrupt
people & Govt. exploiters, imperialists, warrnongers
one & all! he individual remained a victim! victim .7
yes victim of outer forces - but also is a victim of

himself. His ignorance, his biases, his weakness,

दु

follies, vices, perversions, manias W Wb’fﬁ’a‘
.
.
of the L441“ ८८१८८

So is it not high time to attack the inner

individual/who converted the cross to a

& who

dumped Gandhi in to the Dustbin & who turned
Buddha in to a brass icon.

A whole decade of long complaint & attack on the
outer has left the inner pampered
Our trip to Orissa was aimed to take students right
into the network of geographical economic cultural &
social life where the given forms under study existed.
Apart from a sociological survey the students were
exposed to Rituals, Ballads, Narratives, Dramatic
narratives, carricaturish narratives, Dance & Ballets.

all this exposure should take one to the entire
spectrum of cultural expressions
A very vast range of performance skills,
presentational modules are needed to enable a
student, to cope with the diverse activities that are
going on in the counting and later in turn to bring out
a new future? Why learn Dance forms at all?
Is it to bring out theater that is truly Indian?
What in western theatre? Why did the irnpressionists
of the last century study Chinese and Japanese
paintings. What was artaud talking - why was he so
fascinated by the east?
What country did Brecht’s theatre belong to ?
or! was it his own? like his moustache, & like his
nose?

The last twelve years philosophic churning has
resulted only in ”Rang pattis, chorus, bare stage and
chaotic, unpolished crude acting.” Some of our
respected seniors, out of their need & approach
looked into tradition, some got locked in them yet
few came back to relate to the present. But soon it be
came a wave. Turn to tradition then you are Indian,
turn to tradition, you win the intellectuals, turn to

folk you get money to do theatre the need to root
ourselves with tradition is

— to have history lesson — But you don’t stay in
hi story.

— to understanding the temperament & texture of
emotion of the past.

.

