11A

… to grasp the nature of contact with the audience
——- to come to term with the skills of Interacting with
the audience from a base where they had been!

Yes! the audience has changed its base & stance to art
— expectations have changed, the audience
perceptions have become intricate &
multidimensional. Their fantasies are becoming
individualised possibilities of Dramatic changes and
in a person’s life span, are higher than earlier! In the
past the cobbler’s son, at best, could fantasize to win

a shoe factory - But after 1947, at least a mathematical
possibility.
It lurks in every ones fancy that the mochi’s son from
Assam, could become the president to UNO one day.

Hence now our art has to side a taller horse of fancy,
imagination and magical human possibilities
Theatre has to provide, provoke, time and Challenge
the fences, whims and the needs of people,
individual’s & masses So, the search actually should
mean that a single aspect, or a single element in
separated teller & reared up in improvisations 8:
practice should undergo some genetic changes then
one should see, if at all the result is of any use !

Does the experimentation enlarge my expressive
abilities?

Does it contribute ’multidimensionality’ so that one
can reﬂect the present day existence even when one is
doing a mythological with a ”two-plus—two—is-four”
pattern of arguments one can not bring in an Indian
theatre when our theatre and our arts will have a
specific Dream to offer out. Theatre will be a new
one. Indian theatre & arts have been very different
from the rest of the contemporaries. Was it not
mainly because our culture Dreamt of a very
different combination of material & spiritual world.
Since, our approach to life, death, marriage & Sex
was different, our art was different.

But now our arguments, logics, priorities &
approaches to living are almost universal. There are
differences sure enough. But look at the ratio of the
similarities. So our expensive search for a truly
Indian theatre should 8: will emerge when our
theatre has got a different Dream to offer! An art
based on complaining, sneering, jeering negating &
condemning will be like but only when a "DREAM”
is offered our theatre will bear a new baby.
And what all the students aim to blend, assimilate or

achieve, could be sensed in the performance.

