THE ROUGH THEATRE
Excerpts from "Ihe Empty Space’
By Peter Brook
I have had many abortive discussions with architects
building new theatres- trying vainly to find words
with which to communicate my own conviction that
it is not a question of good buildings and bad: a
beautiful place may never bring about explosion of
life, while a haphazard hall may be a tremendous
meeting place; this is the mystery of the theatre, but
in the understanding of this mystery lies the only
possibility of ordering it into a science. In other
forms of architecture there is a relationship between
conscious, articulate design and good functioning:
a well-designed hospital may be more efficacious
than a higgledy-piggledy one; but as for theatres,
the problem of design cannot start logically. It is not
a matter of saying analytically what are the
requirements, how best they can be organized-this
will usually bring into existence a tame,
conventional, often cold hall. The science of

theatre-building must come from studying what it is
that brings about the most vivid relationship
between people and is the best served by asymmetry,
even by disorder .7 If so, what can be the rule of this

disorder ? If we find that dung is a good fertilizer,
it is no good being squeamish; if the theatre seems
to need a certain crude element, this must be

accepted as part of its natural soil. At the
beginning of electronic music, some German

studios claimed that they could make every sound
that a natural instrument could make-only better.
They then discovered that all their sounds were
marked by a certain uniform sterility. So they
anaylised the sounds made by Clarinets, ﬂutes,
violins, and found that each note contained a

remarkably high proportion of plain noise; actual
scraping,or mixture of heavy breathing with wind
on wood: from a purist point of view this was just
dirt, but the composers soon found themselves

compelled to make synthetic dirt to ’humanize’ their
compositions.
Of course, it is most of all dirt that gives the

roughness its edge; filth and vulgarity are natural,
obscenity is joyous: with these the spectacle takes on
its socially liberating role, for by nature the popular
theatre is anti-authoritarian, anti-traditional, anti-

pornp, anti-pretence. This is the theatre of noise and
the theatre of noise is the theatre of applause.

All the times experimental theatre comes out of
the theatre buildings and returns to the room or the
ring.

The Holy Theatre has one energy, the Rough has
others. Lightheartedness and gaiety feed it, but so
does the same energy that produces rebellion and
opposition. This is a militant energy: it is the
energy of anger, sometimes the energy of hate.
The Rough Theatre has apparently no style, no
conventions, no limitations - in practice, it has all

three. Just as in life the wearing of old clothes can
start as defiance and turn into a posture, so
roughness can become an end in itself. The defiant
popular theatre man can be so down to earth that he
forbids his material to ﬂy. He can even deny ﬂight as
a possibility, or the heavens as a suitable place to
wander. This brings us to the point where the
Holy Theatre and the Rough Theatre show their true
antagonism to one another. The Holy Theatre deals
with the invisible and this invisible contains all the
hidden impulses of man. The Rough Theatre deals
with men’s actions, and because it is down to earth

and direct - because it admits wickedness and
laughter- the rough and ready seems better than the
hollowly holy.
In Peking today it seems to make good sense to show
giant Wall Street caricature figures plotting war
and destruction and getting their just deserts. In
relation to countless other factors of today’s
militant China, this is lively, meaningful popular
art. In many South American countries, where the

only theatre activity has been poor copies of foreign
successes put on by ﬂybynight impresarios, a
theatre only begins to find its meaning and its
necessity in relation to the revolutionary struggle
on the one hand and the glimrners of a popular
tradition suggested by workers’ songs and village
legends on the other. In fact, an expression of
t'oday’s militant themes through traditional
Catholic morality-play structures may well be the
only possibility in certain regions of finding a lively
contract with popular audiences. In England, on the
other hand, in a changing society, where nothing is
truly defined, least of all in the realm of politics and
political ideas, but where there is a constant reexamination in process that varies from the most
intensely honest to the most frivolously evasive when the natural common-sense and the natural
idealism, the natural debunking and the natural
romanticism, the natural democracy, the natural
kindness, the natural sadism and the natural

