snobbery all make a mish-mash of intellectual
confusion — it would be no use expecting a
committed theatre to follow a party line, even
supposing that such a line could be found.
The accumulation of events of the last few
years, the assassinations, schisms, downfalls,

uprisings and the local wars have had an
increasingly demystifying effect. When the theatre
comes closest to reflecting a truth in society, it now
reﬂects more the wish for change than the conviction
that this change can be brought about in a certain
way. Certainly the role of the individual in the

brings to his work this same fine sense of human
individuality - perhaps because he is unwilling to
regard a man’s strength and a man’s weakness with
equal impartiality. It is perhaps for this reason
that strangely the pop tradition in England has
such wide appeal: non -political, unaligned, it is
none the less tuned in on a fragmented world in
which bombs, drugs, God, parents,. sex, and private
anxieties are inseparable - and all illuminated by a
wish - not a very strong wish, but a wish all the same
— for some sort of change or transformation.

society, his duties and his needs, the issues of what

belongs to him and what belongs to the state, are in
question again. Again, as in Elizabethan times, man is
asking why he has a life and against what he can
measure it. It is not by chance that the new
metaphysical theatre of Grotowski arises in a country
drenched in both Communism and Catholicism.
Peter Weiss, combining Jewish family, Czech

upbringing, German language, Swedish home,
Marxist sympathies, emerges just at the moment
when his Brechtianism is related to obsessive
individualism to a degree unthinkable in Brecht
himself. Jean Genet relates colonialism and

racialisrn to homosexuality, and explores the French
consciousness through his own degradation. His
images are private yet national, and he comes close
to discovering myths.
Whether the emphasis falls on the individual or on
the analysis of society has become almost
completely a division between Marxists and nonMarxists. It is the Marxist and the Marxist alone
who approaches a given situation dialectically
and scientifically, attempting to explore the social
and economic factors that determine the action.
There are non-Marxist economists and nonMarxist sociologists, but any writer who begins to
set a historical character fully in his context is almost
certain to be working from a Marxist point of view.
This is because Marxism provides the writer with a
structure, a tool and an aim-bereft of these three

elements the non—Marxist turns to Man. This can
easily make the writer vague and woolly. But the
very best non—political writer may be another sort of
expert, who can discriminate very precisely in a
treacherous world of individual shades of
experience. The epic writer of Marxist plays seldom

There is a challenge to all the theatres in the world
who have not yet begun to face the movements of
our time, to saturate themselves in Brecht, to study

the Ensemble and see all those facts of society that
have found no place in their shut-off stages. There
is a challenge to revolutionary theatres in
countries with a clear-cut revolutionary situation as
in Latin Arnericia to harness their theatres boldly to
unmistakably clear—cut themes. Equally, there is a
challenge now to the Berliner Ensemble and its
followers to reconsider their attitude to the darkness
of the individual man. This is our only possibility: to
look at the affirmations of Artaud, Meyerhold,
Stanislavsky, Grotowski, Brecht, then compare

them with the life of the particular place in which
we work. What is our purpose, now, in relation to

