ON MUSIC

the people we meet every day’s . Do we need
liberation ? From what ? In what way ?
If we do not understand catharsis, that is because it

has become identified with an emotional steam-bath.
If we do not understand tragedy, it is because it has
become confused with Acting the King. We may
want magic, but we confuse it with hocus-pocus, and
we have hopelessly mixed up love with sex,
beauty with aestheticisrn. But it is only by
searching for a new discrimination that we shall
extend the horizons of the real. Only then could the
theatre be useful, for we need a beauty which could
convince us: we need desperately to experience
magic in so direct a way that our very notion of what
is substantial could be changed.
It is not as though the period of necessary debunking
were now over. On the contrary, all through the

world in order to save the theatre almost everything
of the theatre still has to be swept away. The
process has hardly begun, and perhaps can never
end. The theatre needs its perpetual revolution.
Yet wanton destruction is criminal; it produces
violent reaction and still greater confusion. If we
demolish a pseudo-holy theatre, we must endeavour
not to bhamboozle ourselves into thinking that the
need for the sacred is old fashioned and that
cosmonauts have proved once and for all that
angels do not exist. Also, if we get dissatisfied
with the hollowness of so much of the theatre of
revolutionaries and propagandists, we must not for
this reason assume that the need to talk of people, of
power, of money and of the structure of society is a
passing fashion.

But if our language must correspond to our age, then
we must also accept that today roughness is livelier
and holiness deadlier than at other times. Once, the
theatre could begin as magic: magic at the sacred
festival or magic as the footlights came up. Today it
is the other way round. The theatre is hardly wanted
and its workers are hardly trusted. So we can not
assume that the audience will assemble devoutly
and attentively. It is up to us to capture its attention:
and compell its belief.

To do so we must prove that there will be no
trickery, nothing hidden. We must open out empty
hands and show that really there is nothing up our
sleeves. Only then can we begin .....
O

The music that has finally taken shape in the play has
the vedic, traditional, folk and modern elements.

Traces of the narrative forms like the Chadhiya
Nach, Katha, Pala singing and kirtan can be found,

once in a while. There is again a variety of rhythm
like the Dhumsa and Maddal beats of the Santhal
tribes (they were our distant neighbours at the base
camp), the Khol, the Chenda, the Ihanj, Chhau

Dhol, Tabla, Jazz, Manjira, etc. Some of the sounds

that are heard in rituals in the region like the ”Hqu
thani” and Shankh have also occupied a place in
the play. Sometimes one may not miss to hear a note
of the Japanese ﬂute or the Kabuki Stylization in
voice. There was no conscious effort to incorporate all
these folk and narrative forms into the production.
They naturally merged as the production
progressed. Keeping the production in View an
attempt has also been made to develop improvised
musical instruments like: carved wooden pieces
producing different round patterns, Khasa tarang
(the Oriya people use this as a vessel in their
kitchensl), earthern pots covered with leather, etc.

The‘students and the musicians contributed
substantially in developing the musical graph.

B. RATNA

