‘Theatre ’3 my

ﬁrst love, will
always be’

7'
111३ may not come across as someone familiar but chances
are lllrll 11 you veheard olChunnl olDet/ l) or lottery of
tirrrmxm twirling. 11 nnn‘t be dillicult {or you to piﬂurtse

- 4- H’TV‘

Dibyendu Bhaﬂacharya isn’t any
longer iust a face in the crowd,
says debameeta bhattacltarya

this lllullllﬂl‘tlt'll and extremely talented actor leyen ll
Bhattaehaitu hat his mots in theatre and says it wall always
he hit fin! low He's now doing a cameo in Star P us 5

new ६111111 Burlimnrezdtl . . Excetpts from an interview:
' 7 when and how did ﬁlms come our w
“ After hating completed my course at the National
Sthool of Drum in 1997. 1 joined the National Repenoite
Company at a senior actor, Then. alter three ycats. in 2000

l;

llound out that Mira Ntrr was asting and auditioning for
‘ ltL‘rJlartsomt reading But by the time 11all worked out l
[or me. 1 heard it wasall over and that the casting had
been linaliscdand closed. But then, it was dstiny because

, when l returned back to the NSD tlte people there told me
that thetasting director for the movie had been on the

‘ lookout for me since he thought i was aptfor the charmer ‘
because there was some last minute reasting happening.

‘ itwas as if1 was destined I0 be a pan ofthis ﬁlm and it
wurkcd out for me. ‘lltat's how 1 bagged my ﬁrst ﬁlm in
Hollywood. Then, aftertins ﬁlm. 1went toMumbai with a

hope of making it big in 1111- industry andtry God's grace:
bagged all myother moms — Mango] Ponder. Ab Tab

Cbappan, Blade Friday and Goal.
दू') You will be tom doing a cameo inStar चिं।

‘

till... what's yottr dial-actor क्याम्पhe all

l play श्याhhai who isa popular lep'slatorwlth a lot of
respect from the people amund him. He isan inﬂuencer
and doesn't take nonsense (min anybody, All hell breaks

loosc whenAbeer (Pearl v Port) lands up in a brawl with
' him whilesaving Meher (Armin Sood). Finitybhal is some-

1.

३ one who will not back down until he has the upper hand
‘ in the situation. lie ‘5 an emetnclypowerful person and
‘ won‘t leave any stone tinnimerl {orhis own beneﬁt.

३ Q What B itthat you ate always seen in myth: mini is
this स्था dyour

,

No, not at all. When people ask in: about my negative
३ characters, Iolten tell them about mylife and they end up
changing theirperception about me. Acting is all about

being myselt Itll the good. had. negative. positive,etc.
qualities are inside you. And they come out depending on
the character you're portraying. You become what you nun-

३ ture. Apart from my negative rules. i atn justa simple per५ son surrounded by thepeople i love; my family. I am a different person on screen and ०11 lt.

l
1

Q Alot indbeen aid ﬂat when
,
awards
1 Not really. I don‘t belteit- In commenting on others' 511८-

r

‘ cess I am busydoing my own thing. My wnrltls olptime
pnonty lnr me itsa matter it!faCt. peopleare in theindus—
try because of titetr talent and callhte. The audience loves

them tar their body of work and mal':why th=y‘t'csupertun m tht-n-own right.

‘ ;’7Are you gettingback In यज्ञ andthan?
‘ ‘ listing trained at the National School ofDrama for

८

12

9.
a.r

S-

n
हैं
ठेS

E
1’

S

.5

८ट
a
दृ
हृ
.5.
प्र

tint-e years. 1 can proudly say that theatreis my Histlove
and will always be I did eventually start doing ﬁlmsand
tclt-t‘tsmtt rules but theatre tswhere 1 belong, As an anor, I
want tn bi: a pan 0! all thechannels there are. i want to

upcn to whatsoever comes my my

:3 One actor/amass you‘d liketo workwith?

1 ।नागांअ०या lit-Ming but we- didn't than men space. l‘d

line u. wont turn lircptlia Paidukortc the:seeing h
lurinante in Film 5hr: Lt a phenomenal ac

. .

.

.

mum and shah श्याओ Khan fortheir Miami":

boil» it! work It‘ll be Fun to work with them I V:
.ilrvnlt lMtfltcil with Aamir Khan tn .liattgul Amig- but
it: tulll deﬁnitelylust: I0 nut‘a भायो tin again

1'1/'ष्णादृ1'
M ८11 mm 1

i
111-11३111८०" mum. lhave a few liltm

lined up later mul‘n- year 11somethtn on W coitusup “I

‘ dciirrrrriy tx- open to 11 1 am tit-n: 1० o substandal Ivorlt
, tllal \atnlit's 111८ 1: nt actor

दृ "३१५.- ८

litere's not one but many people who I want to writ

with ﬁrst. Nasceruddtit shah l3 someone Iam looking at
. muting tutti tor a really lung time We wen. ogethcr in

‘

