तृतृहूँहँद्धाद्धायुझुधपुआ ‘Baasi Bhat
Mairfkhuda Ka Sanjhha’
Excelsior Correspondent
JAMMU, Sept 11: ‘Baasi Bhat
Main Khuda Ka Sanjhha’, a new

play in Hindi based on Munshi
Prem Chand’s story was featured at

A scene from Hindi play
Sanjhha’.
Natrang’s Sunday Theatre series at
its studio here today.
The play was directed by
Neeraj Kant. A very tough pondering message was rooted in the play
which had a lot to convey to the

audience.
The play, in a very subtle manner, projectshow a person’s faith is
changed because of changing circumstances. One ‘Dina Nath’ is
shown in a very pitiable condition
in the beginning of the play as he
is without any job since months.
To meet his day to day expanses,
he had exhausted all the resources
even household things and whatever meagre jewellery his wife
possessed was also sold.
He had borrowed money from
all his friends and acquaintances
which increased his worries even
more as people started to grapple
him ﬁ'om neck to get their money
back but as there was no regular

source of income, every penny
was exhausted, this frustration had
made him atheist and he blames
God for all his miseries. One day,
he ﬁnds a good job and aﬁer a few
months ofregular income, his con-

Baasi Bhat Main Khuda Ka

dition improved and he again started believing in God and his blessings, he got promotion in his job
with the condition to do some illegal work, which made him fearful
of God’s fury but somehow he got
escaped and suddenly he turned
out to be an atheist once again considering that he himself is the master of his destiny.
This inconsistent belief and its
shifting with the shiﬁing ofcircumstances is in very nature of all those
who don’t have any conviction and
this ironical behaviour was very
aptly expressed in the play.
Actors of the play included
Shivam Singh, Meenakshi Bhagat,
Sachin Saini, Rishav Sharma and
Kuldeep Angral. Lights were operated by Neeraj Kant, music was
scored by Brijesh Avtar Sharma.
The show was coordinated by
Mohd. Y'aseen.
/ I

