HYDERABAD l FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2015

03
Cl

as, EIL’C,8_CCUIULI€

ittiiig/tribute to the Lord ofseven hills
The 57th SICA Art Festival’s final two days ended with precision, perfection and a pleasing feeling among audiences.
Day 6 saw a dance ballet by Krishnakurnari Narendran and his team portraying the seven hills, and the final day
ended the celebrations on, a pleasant note with a vocal recital by classical musician Vijaya Siva

ऊं'" Annual Art Festival - 2131२

;,
pr ., ‘
,m u
,हँ4 I ix

BIRTH CENTENN-lt‘ i’itlBUTE TO THE MUSICAL LEGEND

BHARATH RATNA smi. ltl.£ .

५
\.

‘

दृ ,

ord of Seven Hills, the celestial God
Venkateswara (Swamy) Viabhavam
Dance Ballet portraying the seven hills
episodes and Vaibhavams of Alwaruswamy,
Garudaswamy and Utsava Sampradayam followed (Temple rituals as envisaged by Saint जिmanujacharyulu) was neatly presented byAbhinaya Natyalaya ofChennai with a team of‘30
students. The choreography by Natya Guru Krishnakumari Narendran with all its precision
was performed, and proved to be a showpiece
ofthe ongoingseries ofSlC/t's Art Festival 2015
1n the one-and-half hours’ brisk display of

this dance ballet, they narrated the nomenclaturesoerushabhadri, Neeladri.Anjanadri.Seshadri, Garudadri. Narayanadriand Venkatadri
(Seven Hills) brieﬂy depicting the relative
episodes. The ballet started with Swagatha

Nrityamfollowed byAlivelu Manga Vaihhavam,
(iowpooja (adoring cow), Venkateswara

Darsanam, (iarudotsavam, Dolotsavani and ﬁ» sented. A majority of people agree that Thya—
nallyfollowed byUtsava Samprdaya keerthans garaja, Muthuswamy Deekhsuulu and y८ 1 a
related to daily rituals as is being practiced in Sastri popularly known as the ‘Music Tri ity'.
Thirumala Temple even today. While some the pioneers oft‘aniatic classical mu c striv
songswere in Tamil, some were in Telugu. The
ithis as possibleduring
v - r . . I.…
.~
i
young dancers gave a scintillating display with
apt loot work andwith fascinating abhinayathat that tradition, Their lyrics are tinie~tested
suited the familiar songs such as “Kanti krithis even applicable to the presentthy world
Sukravaramu", “Chakkani Talli Changu Hhala", in letter and spirit. Of late, many mus ions are
“V'enkatachala Nilayam' and “Tandanaana ahi not giving much importance to the t ' ity
Tandanaana" and other songs, which received sahityarn during their concerts. It was pleasing
wide applause from the audience
to note that the C
simns
'
\vho partit»
The music provided by theviolin wiuird Kun» ipated in SICA 57th Art Festival devoted their
nakkudi Vidyanath anwas pre-recorded, yetthe
' ispect. 0n thut-oncliidiiigday
students followed with precision and perfection.
L. val. veteran musician N Vij. , .i
But it is to be pointed out that the performance
३ ' 1 a
yam. much to the
otharathanatyam in the balletwas done with delight oftltu audience who \vitnt‘sst-tl tliv 1३11।।semi-classical music, Besides. it was more of a cert with pinadrup silence.
folkstyle with nonstop display of artistes and
. r dthe Convert \\ ilh है lliniilizir
with a heavy sound system that spoilt the sereniam
asudii" \vitli .i mdklllll}!
ity of the classical form (it Hharthanalyain. Ex—
a
a too He then took oath of tincept for this vitalpoint. the ballet was well-pro I riiiityworks in .in order. ३1.111111६111।11 "Itaiiia
rea.

CanUKULA RAMA MOHAN
I

ट

I

lt1

Nannu Brovaraa" (Hari Kambhoj i),“Arunachalanadiam Smaraami' (Saranga), “Mariverey

Gathi Eavaramma Mahiloh‘ (Anadabhairavi)
which Vijaya Siva rendered with beﬁtting Ra»
galapana and lucid swaraltalpana. While
dwelling N r-nrll:
I
५' inw“u5(0t1dly
emotive andspread “Atiiianubhoothi' to the au—

dience too, He thenmoved onto afamiliarnum—
“
'anarn Kandarku" (Mohana) of
Gopalak shna Bharathi. "Karunichutaku’
(Sindhu Mandhari) of Patnam Subrarnanya
Ayyer. both rendered appealineg withsizeable
ragalapana.Young and promising violin music iari (‘ ha rumathi Ragburam folloned theweal»
i st with ease and gavean outstand i ng perfornv

aiice. Similarly. Mano] _ atMridang-am) and
K rish n an tGhatam) provi ed good instrumental
support V Rajagopal, secretaryofKalasagaram
honoured the artistt
(
The week-long Annual Art Festival of SICA
it As .ihly monitored and turned out to be «ill

९111३111111111'11५1111३९३311०'1६'11५१३

