EVALUATION OF SAIYID
WIZA RAT

The inability of the Saiyids to
consolidate their power may be
ascribed largely to the opposition
offered by an important section of

and Bahadur Shah, and the Rajpﬁts,
Marathas, etc. But it suited their

opponents to misrepresent the policy
of the Saiyids, and to give to the

the old nobles belonging to the time
of Aurangzib and Bahadur Shah.
This section looked upon the Saiyids
(as upstarts, and was not prepared to
be over-shadowed by them in

anti-Saiyid struggle the outer

conducting the affairs of the empire.
The leading role in the opposition
to the Saiyids was played by a small

Siyar. The question has been argued

character of a struggle between the
Mughals and the Hindustanis.
Politically, the biggest error of the

Saiyids was the deposition of F'arrukh

on a moral plane-whether “the

but powerful group centring round

Saiyids were disloyal to their king”,
or whether they “treated him as the

Nizam-ul-Mulk and M. Amin Khan.
These capable and ambitious nobles

case required”. Irvine has opined
that the deposition of Farrukh Siyar

aspired to exercise supreme power in

was, perhaps, unavoidable “but the

the state. They also disliked the
Saiyid policy of making large
concessions to the Rajputs, Marathas

way of doing what had become
almost a necessity was unduly harsh
and the taking of the captive’s life
was an extremity entirely uncalled
for’ ’ .
This really is to beg the question.
The execution of F'arrukh Siyar,
though performed with unnecessary

etc., and to the Hindu opinion

generally, regarding it as being a

departure from the policies of
Aurangz’ib, contrary to the Islamic

character of the state and against the
best interests of the empire and the
monarchy.
The Saiyids attempted to associate
in the higher ranks of the nobility
all sections including the various
ethnic groups at the Court, the nobles
belonging to the time of Aurangzib

cruelty, was a logically unavoidable

corollary of his deposition. As long
as he was alive, the Saiyids could not

feel secure. What the Saiyids had to
decide was whether they could realize

their objectives without deposing
Farrukh Siyar. ‘Abdullah Khan was

