apparently of the opinion that they

He desired that Nizam-ul-Mulk,

could. He felt that there was no harm

M. Amin Khan, etc. should be

in leaving the sikkah and the khutbah
in Farrukh Siyar’s name as long as
all the important ofﬁces remained in
their control, and were ﬁlled by their
nominees. The deposition, for which

destroyed at the earliest possible
moment, or at any rate, rendered
incapable of any mischief. This
divergence of outlook and approach
accentuated the differences which
had already appeared between the

Husain Ali seems to bear the primary
responsibility, created apprehensions

in the minds of many nobles about
the ultimate intentions of the Saiyids,
and alienated their own supporters
who were not prepared for such
extreme measures. Considering the

weakness of their actual position, it
was a political blunder, for it enabled
their rivals, the ‘Chin’ group, to
appear as the champions of the
i Timurid monarchy and to utilise the
public revulsion against the Saiyids
for their own ends.

Secondly, the Saiyids overestimated their strength and

resources, disagreed among themselves about the policy to be pursued
towards the powerful ‘Chin’ group,
the ultimately precipitated a
premature showdown with it. It
would appear that ‘Abdullah Khan

understood better than Husain ‘Ali
the real weakness of their position.
By patient and careful diplomacy,

he had succeeded in detaching
M. Amin Khan, Nizam-ul-Mulk and
Sarbuland Khan from Farrukh Siyar.
He was keen that the understanding

with these nobles should be maintained and, if possible, strengthened.
On the other hand, Husain Ali who

was inclined to be haughty and overbearing, apparently held the view
that such a policy was unworkable.

two brothers over the division of
power and the spoils of victory.
The Saiyids did not enjoy supreme
power long enough for a proper
estimate being made of their
administrative capabilities. The spirit
of party strife which kept growing

from the accession of Farrukh Siyar
paralysed the administration, and
“everywhere zamirgdars and
malcontents raised their head.”
Established rules of business were

ignored. The dependence of the
Saiyids on subordinates like Ratan
Chand made them unpopular, and
reﬂected unf'avourably on their
administrative competence. The

responsibility for bribe-taking and
harshness in revenue-farming is
ascribad to these subordinates. On

the other hand, it is not denied even
by those writers who are strongly
opposed to the Saiyids that they
strove hard to maintain law and
order, and that their military

reputation and capabilities prevented
a ﬁnal break-down of the
administration.
By concentrating power in their
hands, the Saiyids sought to save

the Mughal empire from the process
of disintegration which had inevitably
followed the accession of a weak or
incompetent king. Simultaneously,

