३ Purvardha—A Review
P. N. Singh
acocz’urer z'n (Sang/2'55

It was an overwhelming experience for

any one who happened to be in the an—
cie wt town of G hazipur in the evening of
January 4, 1981 and had the privilege of
witnessing Dr. Sheomurat Singh’s play
Purvardha

length.

In terms of content it is a multi-

forked attack on the capitalist system wich
the Writer calls ‘Mahajani Vyavastha' folio
wing Prem Chand.
new.

This is not something

Hindi theatre has been doing this

(The First Half) staged in the

for long in the form of social criticism.

quandrangle cf Adarsh lnter College. That

But what is new in the play is that the

eveing Ghazipur with its dilapidatet mate—

writer has successfully shifted emphasis

rial glory and wreaked cultural ethos ap-

from characters to circumstances.

Man as

such ceases to be good or bad.

lt/is no

peared to have rolled back to its old cuttural splendour, momentarily transcending

use passing judgment on or getting angry
the oppressive conditions of its material
with the individual for his failings, aberralife.

Apart from being artistically impre—
tionsand degenerations. He is not to be

ssive and aesthetically satisfying, Puwar-

looked at in isolation. Having created a sysdha did succeed in whelting the cultural
tem man himself has become its helpless

appetite of the local inteligentsia; and navictim.

The system Once in operation had

turally since then there has been a widely
devel0ped its own momentum and logic
felt need for such cultural sh-xtws.

This is
not only independent of but even contrary

actually a real tribute to the creativity and
to the pious wishes of its creators.
dramaturgy of its writer.

The

Dr. Singn, and
various actors in the play assume various

the histrionic ability of Shti Ram Nagar
roles in fast changing circumstances best
and his troupe but for whom, probably,
expressed by its
the presentation would not

episodic nature.

Man

have been
does not choose any role for himself; it is

what it actually was.
for the prevailing circumstances to assign ,
Purvardha is remarkable in many ways

roles to him. Man, as in the case of Sha-

in termsof technique, form and content it

kespeare's tragic universe, has to act un-

is undoubtedly an achievement deepite

der impose situations His own likesanddis-

the fact that it is the author’s maiden effort

likes, ambition's and aspiration's are ren-

at creative writing of some considerable

dered irrelevant contributing to the sense

