[

18

l

writer very much belongs to this class and
thus his class syrnpathis, admiration and
ideo ogy have knowingly unknowingth
found way intothe structure of the play The

between the prevalent obscene mundaneness of the pOpular cinema and the sophistication of fhe Drama prOper.

writer does not seem to appreciate that

4—Stage-setting,
decoration
and the
light and shade arrangements had reached

the lowermiddle-class can at best work
out its salvation. It cannot be a conscious
toolofhistory to end explortation for 9000.
2—The second lin‘litation issues forth from
the first one. One. It is true that the play
does attack the capitalist system in all
its ramifications. But at the same time
atleast in one place it openly defies the
material and humane achievements Arnerican Capitalism wlthout even tryin to
understand that it is American Capitaiism
which is the arch defender of capitalism
expleritation all the world over, and that
the glitter of the American gold is heavy
with human tears and srneard with human
blood as it is the result of the war—orien—
ted giant industries. Once woncers whether the play attacks the system from the
right or from -the left. The writer, however, considers his attack from the positlon of the left. It is some what necessary
for no writer to acquire a bit more penetration into the nature of capitalist exploitation and the dlalectics of socio-econumic forces.

3-Thirdly, the language is a bit too literary, occasionally even deliberately osten—
tatio sand ornate. One is reminded of
a Jai Shankar Prassad robbed, of c3urse
of lyrical effusions and Jingling music.

Naturarly the language limits its commu—
nicability. Audience without necessary
literary cultivation will find difficult to
relish it. This probably the limitation of
conscious theatre struggling

to mediate

the levels of sophistication.

The entire

setting had been rendered too gaudy. It
struck me firstly because the sophistica—
ted setting was in utter contrast with nine

halt naked characters having small wooden stools as their only material accessory
or. the stage, and secondly because it
stood in the way of easy communication
for which the play was overt by anxious.
This anxiety for communication requires
the stage to be dragged down into the
streets, fields and factories. This is possible Only when the decorative frills of the
stage-setting are consciously done away
wiih.
But when looked at from another angle
this contrast on the surface emphasises
yet a deeper contrast. It reveals the ironic
dimensions of the human situated—halfnked men busy in thier OWn selfish pur-

suits. chasing and being chased, exploit ng and exploited in turn in a world for
which then have sweetened and even bled
and have thus flooded it with material
comforts and glories always remaining
beyond their reach. The contrast expresses a grim and ironic sense of poverty
amidst plenty, nakedness amidst plethora
of commodities from which the
ducer has been alienated.

real pro-

In short, Purvardha‘is basically a Problem Play with something of
pity and irony rather than
eloquence and humour, It
cal led, to use an expiession

Galswordhi an
Shavian wi t,
may also be
or G3. Shaw

