NATIONAL SCHOOL OF
DRAMA REPERTORY
COMPANY

through photographs, models, Jewellery,
costumes etc. This exhibition has been on
view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay,
Pune, Goa and Bangalore.
In December-January 1992-93, the Repertory
was the first to commemorate Mohan Rakesh
twenty years after the his demise and
organise a major festival of all his plays and
adaptations of his short stories. It turned out
to be a major event in threatre in recent
times.
Actors who worked with the Company in
the past include Late Om Shivpuri, Sudha
Shivpuri, Meena Williams, Mohan
Maharishi, Anjala Maharishi, Ram Gopal

The Repertory Company of the National
School of Drama was formed on an
experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi, who
played a major role in nurturing and
expanding the Company when he was the
Director of the School (1962-77). In the
beginning, the Company consisted of only
four actors which later expanded into a
larger group of actors, musicians and
technicians, mainly graduates of the
School. Inititally in 3964 late Om Shivpuri
was leading the Company and later in 1977
Shri Manohar Singh was appointed as the
first Chief of the Company who continued
till 1985.
Over the years the Repertory has produced
a variety of plays ranging from stylised
musicals, realistic contemporary works of
Indian drama and also translations and
adaptations of foreign language plays.

Eminent directors from within the country

and abroad have worked with the Company
inthe past years.

Apart from performing in Delhi, the
Company undertakes extensive tours all over
India and has also made successful trips to
Germany, Poland, Britain, and Nepal.

As part of the Silver Jubilee celebrations
the Company took an extensive tour and
organised Rangyatra Theatre Festival and
put up a special exhibition designed by Shri
Bansi Kaul depicting the work of N.S.D.
Repertory Company since its inception

Bajaj, Karnlakar Sontakke, Rajendra Gupta,
Usha Banerjee, Uttara Baokar, Manohar
Singh, Surekha Sikri, Jyoti Deshpande,
Rajesh Vivek, Vasant Josalkar, Vijay
Kashyap, Madhurnalti Mehta, Sudhir
Kulkarni, Pankaj Kapoor, Raghuvir Yadav,
Virendra Rajdan, Raja Bundela, K.K. Raina,
Deepak Kazir, Anang Desai, G.P. Narndev,

Dolly Ahluwalia, Anila Singh, Yuvraj
Sharma, Lalit Tewari, Lokendra Trivedi,
Himani Shivpuri,.Nutan Surya, Hema Singh,
Shrivallabh Vyas, Anuparn Shyarn, Jitendra
Shastri and others.
Some important actors who worked for a
brief period are: M.K. Raina, Naseeruddin

Shah, Om Purl, Anuparn Kher and Zohra
Segal.

Acting Chief of Rep. Company
Ram Gopal Bajaj
Business Manager
A.C. Gandhi
Stage Manager
Yashwant Nikose
Sound Technician
S.N. Dasgupta
Wardrobe lncharge
Gursharan Kaur
Workshop lncharge
Abdul Hakim
Technical & Administrative Staff

O.P. Sagar, C.D. Tewari, C.S. Bhatia,
Rarnesh Athwal, S. R. Yadav, Tikararn Bhatt
Director of National School of Drama
Kirti Jain

