Life and
Times of Binodini

Paramhamsa Dev, who, as the legend
has it, after seeing her performance in
Chaitanya Leela went into a trance. In her
twelve year career in theatre, she

appeared in more than sixty different roles
and took to writing after retiring from the
stage at the age of 24. Apart from their
literary merit, her autobiography, Amar
Katha and unfinished serial, Amar
Abhinetri Jiban, remains till date an
invaluable document of the Bengali
Theatre of those days. She also penned
two volumes of poetry Vasana and KanakO-Na/ini. She died in 1941.

No account of 19th Century Bengali
theatre, however sketchy, can be
complete, without a reference to Binodini
Dasi. She was born in 1863, a period
when Bengali Theatre was taking its first
tentative steps into the world of
commercialism. Her first stage
appearance, at the age of eleven, was in
a bit role in Great National Theatre's
Shatru Sarnhar in 1874. Ambitious; eager
and quick to learn, she drove herself
relentlessly to develop her natural talents.
She had no formal schooling but acquired
a remarkable command over the Bengali
language and information about English
actors, actresses and English drama.
Under the guidance of the great teacher
Shri Girish Chandra Ghosh, she
developed an acting style uniquely her
own, and by the time, she was twenty,
she was being referred to as “the flower
of the native stage” and “prirna donna of
the Bengali theatre” in the English press.
To popular acclaim were added tributes
from eminent persons like Bankirn
Chandra Chatterjee, Edwin Arnold, the
author of Light of Asia, Col. Olcott, the

theosophist and above all Ramakrishna

Contemporary commentaries on Binodini’s
acting talent are regrettably few. One is
the preface Girish Ghosh wrote for Amar
Katha where he gave many instances of
her range and her meticulous attention to
detail. Another is by Sarnbhu Chandra
Mukherjee, editor of RAIS and RYAT.
After seeing a double bill performance,
he wrote in his paper: “But last no least
shall we say of Binodini? She is not only
the Moon of Star Company, but
absolutely at the head of her profession in
India. She must be a woman of
considerable culture to be able to show
such unaffected sympathy with so many
and various characters and such capacity
of reproducing them. She is certainly a
Lady of much refinement of feeling as
She shows herself to be one of inimitable
grace. On Wednesday she played two
very distinct and widely divergent roles,
and did perfect justice to both. Her Mrs.
Bilasini Karforma, the girl graduate,
exhibited so to say an iron grip of the
queer phenomenon, the girl of the period
as she appears in Bengal society. Her
Chaitanya showed a wonderful mastery of
the suitable forces dominating one of the
greatest of religious characters who was
taken to be the Lord himself and is to this
day worshipped as such by millions. For a
young Miss to enter into such a being so
as give it perfect expression, is a miracle.
All we can say is that genius like faith can
remove mountains.”

