Director’s Note

For me, she was the first ‘living Martyr’ of
Indian theatre. She was not only an
actress but also a singer, painter and
poet. Her literary works, ‘Amar Katha’ and
‘Amar Abhinetri Jiban ’ are treasures of
Bengali literature, but remain

unappreciated because Binodini was a
child of red light areas. She struggled

hard to overcome this by devoting her life
to theatre and educating herself in the
process. Despite being known as ‘Natikul

Samragyi'-Queen amongst actresses, she
is yet to receive the recognition she
deserves.
In this play, l have tried to analyse how
Binodini had been exploited by the male
dominated society, by the ‘Masters’, in the
name of theatre. I consider the treatment
meted out to Binodini as an insult to the
entire wornenhood. I, therefore, think that
this play is very relevant to our times. If
Draupadi could be called ‘Sati’ why not
Binodini? Both the women were treated
like commodities and discarded by men.

I have tried not to be bound by any ‘ism’
nor make historical characters look right. I
have, instead, tried to design to play
simply, to create a functional and

convincing atmosphere to reinforce the
theme and to put forward the facts about
the life of this great actress.

Nati Binodini has been my obsession.
This production is my humble tribute to
the legendary actress of the 19th century,
Flower of the native stage, the ‘Prima
Donna’, of the Bengali Theatre, Binodini

Dasi. It is also an attempt to trace the
roots and discover the veiled story of the
makers of Indian theatre and their
sacrifices- the story of the people who
made it with their blood and sweat.

This is my first venture with N.S.D.
Repertory Company. I would like to thank
the Director of the National School of
Drama and the Chief of the Repertory
Company for making it possible for me to
direct this play.

I would also like to express my gratitude
to my teachers —— Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj
and Shri Ranjit Kapoor, from whom I
have learnt a lot. My thanks and best
wishes to all the members of the
Repertory Company.
—Bapi Bose

