The Director

He has also played lead roles in Andha
Yug Hayavadana, Ashwatharna,
Agnigarva, Lena, Asarni Hazir Yudhishtier,

Bhorai Kheya, Agnigarva, Hekempur,
Swarvarna Bhorer Micheel etc. in Bengali
and Epilogue of an actor and Urubhangarn

in Hindi. He has also aCted in the
following major Hindi productions: The
Servant of two masters, Sharvilak, Mashirqui-Hoor, Khabsurat Bahu, Muavze, Pair

Tale Ki Zarneen etc. He has designed
sets and lights for all his productions as
well as for others including foreign
directors - some of the designs were for
plays like-King Oedipus, Spartacus,
Broken Jug, Kharnosh Adalat Zari Hai,
Agnigarva, Lena, Lata Kharnba, Qaid-EHayat, Pair Tale Ki Zarneen, etc. (Sets &
Lights) Hamlet, Seagul, Pygrnalion, Great
peace, Mitro Marjani, Traveller without
luggage, Mother Courage, Loot, A letter
to a child never born etc. (Sets). and light
design for Surya Ki Antirn Kiran Se Surya
Ki Paheli Kiran Tak, The trial, A view
form the Bridge, Muktadhara etc.

Born in Kanchanapara, 24 Parganas,
West Bengal, Bapi Bose grew up in an
atmosphere of ‘Jatra’, the traditional
theatre of Bengal. He was involved with
l.P.T.A. and Group theatre movement of
West Bengal in the mid seventies. He
received his Senior Diploma in Drama
Direction from the Institute of Indian
Theatre Arts, Calcutta in 1982 and
graduated from the National School of
Drama, New Delhi in 1986 with
specialisation in Direction. He worked in
the NSD Rep. on a fellowship. He has
directed twenty plays which include:
King Oedipus, Broken Jug, Spartacus,
Kharnosh Adalat Jari Hai, Sattar Dashak,
Swarvarna, Lata Kharnba, Agnigarva,
Lena, etc. in Bengali and Lata Kharnba,

Bapi Bose has worked with eminent
Indian Theatre personalities including
Ebrahirn Alkazi and Habib Tanveer and
internationally known directors like : - Fritz
Benewitz (G . D . R) Konrad Zschiedrick
(GD. R) Rodney Marriott (U.S.A.) and
designers like Franz Havernan (G.D.R)
Brian Thomson (Australia) Peter Cook
(Australia) etc. He has worked for Children
Theatre festival of USSR. in India and
conducted workshops in West Bengal,
Orissa, Assam and Delhi. He has been
invited as visiting designer in N.S.D.,
Repertory Company as well as in National
School of Drama. He also participated in
Berlin Theatre Festival. Recently be has
done a special course in Stage design
and theatre tehinques in the National
institute of Dramatic, Arts, Sydeny,
Australia under cultural exchange programme Bapi Bose, is currently working with
the N .S. D. Repertory Company as an
Artiste and is a visiting faculty member of

Swarvarna in Hindi.

the National School of Drama.

