Synopsis

Subsequently, National Theatre suffers
financial losses and is bought over by
Seth Pratap Chand Jahuri, a Marwari
businessman.
Around this time, Binodini becomes the
mistress of ‘A’ Babu, but continues to
work in theatre despite his opposition.
Her relations with the theatre owner,
Pratap Chand, turn hostile over issues of
leave and salary, following her return
from a month long tour of Kashi, where
she had gone with ‘A’ Babu to recuperate
from illness.
Gurmukh Rai, another Marwari
businessman, becomes interested in
Binodini and offers to build her a theatre,
provided she becomes his mistress. The
heart breaking news of ‘A’ Babu‘s
marriage to another woman, her
colleagues’ coercion, andabove all her
love for theatre, makes her agree to
Gurmukh’s proposal. But her colleagues
after promising to name the new theatre
after her, retracts on the plea that a
theatre named after a prostitute will not
attract audience. The new theatre is
named STAR.

Act I I
Act I
Why did Binodini Dasi, one of the finest
actresses of 19th Century Bengali theatre,
give up acting at the young age of twenty
four, particularly when she was at the
height of her fame? The Narrator
attempts to find an answer to this vexed
question by reconstructing Binodini’s short
but eventful career on stage.

Like most actresses of her time, Binodini
is a child of the red light areas of North
Calcutta, and is initiated into theatre at
the tender age of eleven. After a four
year stint at the Great National and the
Bengal Theatre, Binodini joins the
National Theatre, where she comes in
contact with the great actor, playwright
and teacher, Girish Chandra Ghosh.

Star Theatre becomes popular in no tlrne
with Binodini achieving greater
professional heights. But behind the
curtain, there is intense professional
rivalry. Gurrnukh, under family pressure,
decides to sell the theatre and offers
Binodini fifty percent share. However, she
is persuaded by her colleagues not to
accept the offer and instead four of her
co-actors buy the theatre.

Binodini meets Ranga Babu, a great
admirer of her acting talent. Her
rnesmerising performance in Chaitanya
Leela earns her all round applause and
Rama Krishna Paramhansa Dev blesses
her. Soon after she bids good bye to
theatre for a life with Ranga Babu.

