About Ourselves
Uttarayan was founded in 1983 by a band of young and talented enthusiasts who, had in
common an impassioned dedication to the performing arts. Like a flower it has gradually blossomed, displaying its beautifully coloured petals, as more and more young people have gathered
under its banner.
The aims and objectives of Uttarayan are simple—to promote and nurture all forms of
creativity and art with particular emphasis on and keeping in mind, our
very
own traditional
culture and values.
Our plans are ambitious and the sky is the limit. We hope, eventually to
institute and establish a system of scholarships and grants for deserving artistes in any branch
of the creative arts. It is common knowledge that lack of facilities, funds, and the inevitable red
tape combined with indequate patronage, have stifled many a young talent. Uttarayan may provide the platform and be the ﬁrst stepping stone to.success in the case of many a young aspiring

artiste.

We are sure, that with the grace of God and the

good wishes and the patronage of

lovers of the creative arts. we will be able to see our dream come true.

Uttarayan took the first vital step by staging Rabindranath Tagore's symbolic musical drama
'PHALGUNI' at Kamani Auditorium on the 29th January, 1984. Many of Tagore’s dance dramas
have been repeatedly staged in the capital, but this play, which is perhaps one of the most difficult to interpret among Tagore’s dramas, was performed for the first time in Delhi. It received a
tremendous ovation both from the theatre loving puplic of Delhi and the press. This over whelming response has been very encouraging and heartwarming for the members of Uttarayan who
had spared no pains in their efforts to make their maiden venture a success.
On the 19th May 1984, we staged a classical dance recital by four young dancers - Maduchhanda Chatterji and Anurabha Roy brought out the sheer grace and beauty of the Odissi style of
dancing, while Sanjari Gupta and Ranjani Ramakrishna presented scintillating Bharata Natyam
numbers and thrilled the audience. We are sure these four artistes will shine on the horizons
of Indian classical dance and keep our precious traditions alive.

This year, we are proud to present to the theatre loving public of Delhi a famous musical
artiste of Calcutta - Geeta Sen and the drama group ‘CHARBAK'. Geeta
Sen will stage her
extensively researched repertoire of songs from Bengali dramas dating back
to 1874,
truly a
feast for music and drama lovers. The renowned dramatic group ‘Charbak’ are staging 'E Ek
Itihas’ which is literally a page straight out of the annals of Indian history, the backdrop being
the great sepoy mutiny of 1857, the first step taken

by Indians which eventually broke the shack-

les of bondage and resulted in our independence in 1947.

We hope you will enjoy the shows.
We take this opportunity to wish our partrons and well wishers a very happy and prosperous

New Year.

, , ,_j 1‘ '
.

_

’

: १३३३०- 33 ll ३ ’
है

Dipali De.
Cultural Secretary

