YUV KALA SANQAM
607, Asia House, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi- 1 7 0007 (Phone : 3824.96)
Yuv Kala Sangam is a cultural society and has been organizing musical functions,dances,
dramas, etc. its 10 point programme for cultural devel0pment is :
(1 ) To bring new talent (particularly frorn schools and colleges) on stage,

(3)

To provide free guidance to up-coming artistes and introduce them to proper institu.
tions/teachers for future training,
To increase the sphere of activities of other cultural societies, institutions, groups

(4)

To promote the idea of ’Brotherhood of Cultural Societies' by introducing new

(5)

T: organise branches in other countries for the benefit of Indian artistes visiting

(2)

music and dance schools by sponsoring or co-sponsoring their stage shows,

I

artistes to other societies or groups,
a road.
To perform free shows for Clubs, Societies, Residents and Office Associations or to
३
invite their members to our programmes,
(7) To provide free advice regarding choice of artistes, etc. to other organizations/indivt.
duals who wish to organise public/private functions,
(8) To develop a close fellowship with service-oriented organizations like Lions Clubs
'
Rotary Clubs, ”Freemasons, Round Tablers, etc, or other welfare organizations
५
(9) To involve distinguished citizens of Delhi in the development of art and culture
(10) To discourage vulgarity and groupisrn, and encourage quality and punctuality of
stage shows.
(6)

AMARJIT SINGH KOHLl
(Honorary Secretary)

A g. , 4L ‘5

.

m KALA SANGAM
is interested in :
(l) Sponsoring dramas. musical functions etc. of deserving societies and
individuals,
(2) Giving chance to young and upcoming artists for stage performances,

(3) Co-sponsoring cultural programmes in
cultural societies groups or individuals.
Those interested may please Contact :
A M A R J I ‘1' S I N G H K O H I9 I
Secreta ry
Y U V K A LA 5 A N G A M

‘ 607, Asia House.
Kasturba Gandhi Marg,
New Delhi—110001.
Phone : 382496

collaboration with other

