SCENE I I: PANDAV'S CAMP: Abhimanyu 15 year old son of Arjuna, the brave Pandava warrior has an evil
स्का his old and loving charioteer Sumitra, under whose care Subhadra, Abhimanyu’s
mother has given him.
_
.
‘
.
Yudhisthira the eldest of the Pandavas enters wrth Bhima the second son of Pandavas and informs Abhimanyu
about the formation of Chakravyuha by the enemy. They are worried that there is no warrior in the Pandava camp

who can penetrate this formation in the absence of Arjuna who has gone away‘to some other battle. Abhimanyu
informs them that he knows the art of penetrating the chakravyuha. Yudhisthira IS surprised by this
lnforrnation and wants to know how Abhimanyu has learnt the intricacies of this war strategy. Abhimanyu
tells him.

FLASH BACK: Subhadra and Arjuna, Abhimanyu’s parents, are talking when Abhimanyu is only a five-month-old
foetus in Subhadra’s womb. They are talking about the difficult times to come and how they should protect their
forthcoming chi ld from the vagaries of life. They talk about the materialistic attitudes of people who compromise
their morals and values for petty gains.
_
.
‘
.
Arjuna describes to his wife how he wants to make his yet to-be born child a perfect warrior by teaching him all
crafts of warfare. He tells her about the chakravyuha the cosmic formation of warfare. The child in the womb listens
to this description but unfortunately he is unable to listen to the method of escaping from the Chakravyuha after

entering it as Subhadra falls asleep.
FLASH BACK ENDS: Yudhisthira asks Abhimanyu to embark on the assignment of breaking into the formation.
He promises to rescue him through reinforcements of armed help.
SCENE I I I: BATTLE SCENE: Guru Dronacharya is instructing the seven charioteers regarding their placement in

the formation. He places Duryodhana—the Kaurava prince at the centre surrounded by able warriors on both sides.
On another spot in the battlefield, Abhimanyu is instructing his charioteer Sum itra as to how he should decorate

his chariot with all the war motifs, and weaponry. He also de scribes how he will prepare himself and dress like a
gallant and brave man. He feels very enthusiastic about this venture.
Both sides follow the ritual of marching towards the battlefields.

SCENE IV: ENTRANCE TO CHAKRAVYU HA: Jayadratha, one of the seven charioteers of Kauravas is guarding
the entrance to the chakravyuha. He worships Lord Shiva, the god of—cosmic destruction for help and blessings.
Abhimanyu appears on the scene and tells Jayadratha to allow him to enter. Jayadratha refuses and there is a fight.
Jayadratha flees the scene wounded.

SCENE V: INSIDE CHAKRAYUHA: Abhimanyu continues to fight inside the chakravyuha and succeeds in
overpowering several charioteers. Cunning Shakuni and Kaurava prince Duryodhana talk about new strategies and
they plan to trap Abhimanyu inside the formation. They prepared to play foul to achieve their goal.
SCENE VI: CHAKRAVYUHA: Abhimanyu continues his desperate battle within- ”Chakravyuha”. He needs the
promised reinforcement very badly but there is no news about them. Single—handed, he fights valiantly. His awn
chariot-diver is over powered and killed. Treacherous enemies surround Abhimanyu. There is no help from his
elders. He is left alone to die. His cries of anguish for his father’s help rent the air for nothing.
EPILOGUE: Abhimanyu ascends to heaven. In his farewell to mother earth and to the audience he refers to the
fruitlessness of the spiritual truth of his uncle Yudhisthira who is known for his truthfulness and the materialistic
truth of Kauravas, which has led to this great battle of destruction. It is all, futile. He asks a question as well-whatever
he has done-was it an act of bravery? Was this blind march into the death trap necessary? Is he a martyr? Or a
scapegoat of the system, which wages war against innocents?
Cast:
Sutradhara

Dorendra

Credit:
Stage Manager

Prernananda

Egllggljllltll

Arlirglcilutombi

Set & Props

Jilasana, Nimai, Lupachandra

Abhimanyu

Ibomcha Sorok

Costume Assistant

Chingkheinganbi, Sushma,

Sumitra
Yudhisthira

N. Tornba
Modhusudon

Bhima

Somo

Dronacharya

R.K. Bhogen

Duryodhana
Dushasana
Shakuni
Jayadratha
Ashwatharna

5-K- Mangang
Prernananda
Robindro
|bochouba Meetei
Nimai

Karna

Ningthembir

tha Modhurnangol,

Kripacharya
Arjbufna
Su tadra

Jilasana
Dorendra
Chin khein anbi/Sushma

tha Devbrata
(Assisted by Khelton)

Lanmee

Jilasaérgia, Anggoutombi,

Adrnn. Prod. Manager

Dolendro

Nimai, Kurnarjit, Shantikurnar,
T. Ibomcha, Lupachandra

Script, Music,
Design & Direction

Ratan Thiyam

Rasheghori, Somo
,

.

Musrc Ass:stant

Manisana, L. Tornba, Basanta,

L' Ratan, Rasheshori
Light Assistants

Ibochouba Meetei, Nimai,
Avtar Sahni

Consultants

Guru Thiyarn Tarun Kumar,

Guru Parijat, tha Arnuyaima,

