रेंश्याश्या, TRADITIONS, टात्मा/ष्ठक्वीर्दे .

j .

''

३ हूँ

Five day …"^/यां1था/८ Sam gama" ends WIth
C O '"

performance of "Naut'ank",' "30ij1
KT NEWS.SERV'CE

I

. .

_ .

,_

REASI, Sep 28: The EVe day "Natak
Samagma" commenced today: at ’Abhinav

Theatre with much fervour" and festivities.

'

A festival 2 of coritempdfaﬁykitheatre I
practices, traditions and diverse cultural

expressions of India, the ﬁfth day started
with the meet the directorﬁgustom of the
Samagama where Young Director Kachoo ९

Ahmed Khan was the lini‘élight 'of the
meet as he was the first Lpersbn to portray
a Purgi play living in- difficult circumtionship with the quotidian.
stances and place like Leh. Further Jyoti
In this Show she has virtually donned
Dogra Director and Actor of "Notes on
the skin of the people she performs— her
’ Chai" told' about the play followed by
transitions are so complete that it is
Assistant Director of "Babuji" about the
eerie. Yet this quality is constrained by
play and how it evolves 'Nautanki‘ in it.
its gambit that is more lampoon than
The Samagama furtheryvitnessed' the
subtle. The piece juxtaposes the speech of
traditional ethnic folks of J&K like
everyday conversations with segments
"Haran" by Charan Dasv‘M‘angotra and
that use the voice" simply as an instruparty "HARRAN" is a common folk dance
ment of sound. IN NOTES ON CHAI, the
performed during Lohri festival around
uncommon performer builds on her show,
Makkar Sakranti in the hilly tracts of the taking inspiration from tea- the ubiquiJammu region. However, sometimes, it is
tous beverage that is not without its
also performed, on Lorhi. "Gagail" by
many associations and the feelings it
Sanjeev Shastri and party, Katra is a
inspires, depending on where you are and _
form of religious dance which is perwho is talking about it. But this may
formed on the special occasions. It is a
have just been the starting point for
form of followed by "Shihilkul Pather" by . Dogra who otherwise seeks to delve deepSultan‘ Bhagat Theatre, Gundpora
er into the physiognomy and the psycholKulgam based on governed scheme 'Beti
ogy of the characters she plays. ,As the
Bachao Beti Padhao‘ followed by
performance proceeds, it is less and less ‘
"Karkaan" is a folk narrative in which the
about the wonders of 'chai' as it is about
artists use of the form of lyrical storythe people who have caught Dogra's
telling to worship their 'Kuldevta'. This
imagination.
"
was followed by Suﬁana "Chakri" by
This was Followed by the Nautanki ~
Manzor Ahmad Shah and Abdul Rashid
"Babuji" Based on the story of
Hafiz which is a mixture of Gazal and
Mithileshwar, adapted and directed by
"Kawali"
like
"Sartapa
Daftar
Noted theatre personality Zafar Sanjari
ChuChauni Varm Nahak Chukh Divan"
in nautanki style. The play depicted the
by Samad Mir meaning everything is . internal and external struggle and drawdone by the lord then why to blame
backs of an artist. In the end of the play
humans. This was followed by the main Babuji was shot by a local gunda in the
attraction "Kud" by Khem Raj & Party,
marriage of his own daughter. The role of
Udhampur in which the audiences Chhotkau is very impressive and heart
swayed with the tunes of ﬂute and dhol
touching. He was only person in the famand the colourful vibrant twirling cos—
ily who have respect and good feeling for
tumes of the group.
.
’
his father.
. .
‘
This was further followed by the play
This commenced the five day amalgam
"NOTES ON CHAI" directed and acted by
of various theatrical dialects and perJyoti dogra, Notes on Chai" is a collection
formances that happened for the first
of snippets of everyday conversations time in the state and was appreciated
inter woven with abstract sound exploand liked by the people of Jammu.
rations that attempt to relocate our rela\

