Later sensing the inadequacy of
words to sum up a whole life,
IVIahesh hesitates from describing
Bisu in two sentences as demanded
by Saxena:
“In two sentences? You want to understand
a man’s entire life, his struggle, his
murder, in two sentences? And even if
it could be told, would you be able

toﬁel, comprehend his problem, his
agony?”
The play then ﬁnally concludes
with Nlahesh realizing that words
both spoken and written are noncommital expressions which cannot
completely fulﬁll the need to be
engaged. The play closes with his
pledge to act. In this way Mahesh
sums up Mannu Bhandari’s attitude
because it was with this some
awarness of wanting to come closer
to the realities that surround her
and contribute more concretely to
society that she wrote this novel on

a subject she had never attempted
before. As she says——
“It seems to me that it is very important,
comfortable and reassuring to observe
the interior drama ofone’s life, to
consider one’s personal distress and
inner turmoil But when one’s house is
onﬁre, conﬁning oneself to one’s inner
world and giving expression to only that
appears irrelevant, ridiculous and to
some extent indecent. It is perhaps this
consideration that underlies the creation
of this novel. I look upon this work as
an expression of the debt I owe to my
environment which has determined my
personality and destiny. Other expectations
and projections are the reader’s own.”
The social reality which Mannu
Bhandari talks about in Mahabhoj

then, as a consequence of her
attitude, manifests itself both as a

biography of herself and as an
objective documentary of society
rather than ﬁction.
Acting Style as Related to Structure
In a play such as A/Iahabhoj
characters are not primarily seen
as development and growth, except
in absolutely the minimal case of
Mahesh. Character development
only becomes possible in this kind
of a play if and when the individual
is able to use his resources to make
sense of his world. Thus Mahesh
is surrounded by ﬁgures who merely
exist, "are there” in the play. The
fact that there is no development
for these ﬁgures is a paradigm
of their stagnation and corruption.
They are placed in a context which

