WEDNESDAY 21 JANUARY 2004

Kacfomdarw Cﬁatﬁsiﬁu
Script, Design 86 Direction: S. Thaninleirna
Cosmopolitan Dramatic Union. lrnphal

Synopsis
Kalidas is carried away in his world of poetry
while Mallika tends his cowherd. Mallika gives
hope and encourages Kalidas to continue
writing when Kalidas contemplates himself on
the question of bare necessities for life's
existence and poetry. Nikshep brings the news
of Kalidas being summoned by the Emperor
at Ujjain to be Rajkavi, the royal poet. When
Kalidas hesitates Mallika insisted him to
accept the royal offer and go to the palace
where he can write independently acquiring

both fame and money. Kalidas is brought to
the palace where he mingles with the palatial
environment. Within himself his mind and
thought are in constant confrontation. The
former demands persistently to indulge
himself in his newfound world of splendor.
But the latter hesitates to do so. At last mind
overcomes thought resulting in the marriage
of Kalidas with princess Priyungumanjuri. Far
away in the remote village
Mallika still waits for Kalidas.

Kalidas is a p p p o i n ted as
governor of Kashmir. Fed up
with political intrigues and
machinations Kalidas drifted
away from his political duty. This
negligence in his governance
work made Priyungumanjuri
angry resulting in a sharp line

of difference between the two.
Kalidas indulges in heavy drink
and in his dream he sees Mallika
being tortured mentally by
Vilom, her husband.

From the aristocratic entanglings

Kalidas frees himself. Now
Kalidas steps out of the palace
gate.

Director ’5 Note

My Approach towards this production is to
find a new language of expression which can
theatrically create a sense of involvement in
the audience mind. After going through
Mohan Rakesh’s Ashaad Ka Ek Din, I try to
explore the unseen areas giving clearly to the
situation that Kalidas might have faced in his
life. We live in a particular space conditioned
by definite circumstances in a time. Kalidas
was not an exception to this. There is a constant
conflict between mind and thought within
the inner world of Kalidas. With the use of
traditional elements and modern devices the

play aims at creating both meaningful as well
as aesthetically acceptable piece of art work.
—Th a n i n l i e i ma

