TUESDAY 27 JANUARY 2004

Hingrtingfeeﬁa ’I‘ﬁawai
(The Yearning Soul)
Design & Direction: Laishram Prakash Singh
Leirnayol Arts Centre,
Chingamakha, lmphal

Synopsis

Director 3 note

"The Yearning Soul" is a symbolic play dealing
with the present socio-political scenario in our

Hingningleeba Thawai is a play based on the
lost of humanism in the society which is
expressed through symbols. As the lines of
poetry represent a thousand meanings,
symbols in this play also interpret the
enormous issue of the society. The genre of
the play is founded mainly on the Manipuri
indigenous art forms like Nata Sankritana,

society. It is an issue to dead man voicing his

protests. But he has been implemented man
of innocent. This very man's soul express his
yearning for survival.
A man dies of a stray bullet from an encounter
which is almost a daily routine in our society.
His corpse was brought home after the post
mortern charges of various kinds were brought
against the dead man. However, the dead
man's soul refuses to accept the charges hurled
against him after his dead. His protest and
appeals go unheard and unheeded in this
society where money and political muscle
powers only work. Yet the presiding judge,
who is represented by the old vulture, knows
the dead man was free from any of the charges
brought against him. This issue pricks his
convenience and the judge had to pass the
judgement against his will because he too
longed to survive. This world is a world of
hypocrisy. The yearning from his own survival
compels the judge to pass the unwanted
judgement.
How long can such things continue?
Will such things continue for ever.

There is no definite answer to these thorny
problems. However this cannot be the way of

life, come what may this has to stop someday,
somewhere. The judge comes out and openly
expresses his protests. He too becomes out and
openly expressed his protests. He too becomes
a victim of political assassination. This is the

state of affairs in our society without any
solution in sign.

Manipuri Martial Arts (Thang—Ta) etc. Every

man in the society knows what is right or
wrong. But for survival they ignore right and
become selfish leading to destruction of
human relationship. Last of all, I would think

myself success if the audiences understand the
symbolic interpretation of my play.

