WEDNESDAY 28 JANUARY 2004

Tintﬁrok
(Earthworm)
Design 8i Direction: Domarendra Akham

Public Theatre, Phoijing, Narnbol

Synopsis
The paddy fields of Yairna had long been
inundated with the water of Loktak Project
thereby obstructing further cultivation. As a
result, there grew masses of Ishing/eambong
(Zazania Caducz'ﬂom) in the entire field. Yaima

was a poor tenant peasant who managed to
maintain his family only by physical labour.
Life with many dismal facet posed many
puzzling questions with a serious psychic blow
upon the life of Yaima. One morning he saw a
mysterious mist among the Ishz’ng‘kzzmbong that
might be more imagination than reality. But
the impact was such that he was left a disabled
person due to the trauma. As he was the only
bread earner in his family, his untimely

disability impoverished the family to the
utmost extent. Ahanbi, Yaima's wife had to
bear the whole load of the family all alone.
She had to strive for living by
catching
fish
amidst
Islaingkambong in the vast lake
in order to feed her bed-ridden
husband. She needed Tint/aro/e
as fishing bait. She had to take

the help of a man of the village
for Tint/arc}? who, later on,

frequented to her and supplied
Tint/Jrole sometimes even on

credit. Yairna still lying bed—
ridden, suffering trorn acute
trauma, was often tormented

by the thought of the youth
777zt/Jrok—seller as he was ever
more suspicious of Ahanbi's
relationship with him. To
Yaima, it seemed that the
relationship between Ahanbi
and the Tint/arole—seller was
rather closer than their

husband—wife relationship.

Even in such melancholic and death—in—life
state-of-affairs, he was unable to express his
own sense of discontentment and
disagreement truly. Thus, he was drowned in

this afflicting thought of the situation. His
heart is always haunted by the thought of the
greedy hands stretching to loosen Ahanbi's
knot of hair and the visionary glimpse of the
[shiwzg/eambong of that cloudy morning.
On the other hand, Ahanbi stood firm with

her ideals of womanhood. Left helpless and
broken hearted, we can ask, what is Yaima's

life waiting for — scorching sun of the barren
and waste paddy fields with dried straw roots,
Langban (July-August) or something else?

