BERTOLT BRECHT AND
THE THREEPENNY OPERA
Brecht was born in 1898 in the sleepy
Town of Augsburg- Germany where his
father managed a paper mill. He grew up in comfortable
circumstances. He was a revolutionary right from his

school days. He was almost expelled for taking an antipatriotic line when he was told to write an essay about
his country. Later he wrote his first play Baal in 1918
which was a rurnbustious, and outrageous tribute to

natural drives and anarchic sexuality.
Brecht wrote the Threepenny Opera in 1928 which was

based on a translation of John Gay’s Beggar’s Opera
staged in London in the 16th century. Its music was
composed by Kurt Weill in Berlin and it became an
instant hit. With its underworld setting, the police
corruption, its rapacious characters and its risque songs

the play cocked a snook at respectable society and the
respectable society loved it. Only later when he was
preparing a film version, did Brecht seriously try to put
political teeth into The Threepenny Opera, for by that
time his political views had hardened.
Brecht was torn between the desire to return to the vital,
popular tradition of folk theatre and an equally strong
conviction that drama should be an instrument for social

change, a teaching aid rather than an entertainment.
The Threepenny Opera manages to clothe its social
purpose in a highly entertaining and popular form, so
much so that, to Brecht’s disappointment, the majority of
it audiences overlooked the social significance of the
piece and merely found it entertaining. Being a parody
the play makes its point in a negative manner, by
derision and irony, which tends to be missed by the

audience. It deals with bourgeois conceptions, not only
as content by representing them but also by the way in
which they are presented. It is a sort of summary of what
the spectator in the theatre wishes to see of life. Thus he
is able to give the theatre a new function. Brecht was

well aware of this and that is why he used the quality of
overwhelming popular appeal to his best in this play.

