AUTHOR ’8 NOTE
When my friend

Shridhar Kamat

Barnbolkar approached me with the
request of adapting Brecht’s The

Threepenny Oepra into Konkani.’ l was
startled and thrilled. Mainly because
- to
Brecht has been my favourite writer. His strong down
ng my col- earth poetry had almost possessed me duri

lege days. For a long time I had nurtured the dream of
ence.
translating one of his plays for the local audi
adaption, I
And yet, when I began with the process of

nal
realised how difficult it was to retain the origi
is to be
‘Brechtian’ flavour when one piece of art

.
transcreated into a totally alien culture and language
ve
Throughout his lifetime, Brecht remained an elusi
He
figure. His work was as ambiguous as his behaviour.
cs
liked to be controversial, given his penchant for politi
ory
and social revolution. He regarded the conternper
theatre as a dream factory that churned out comforting
illusions. That is why he floated the idea of “epic theatre”
- which would tell stories but in such a way that the audiences would be forced to weigh up and judge the events
they saw. Brecht believed that the characters could be
chardismantled and reconstructed; he showed that his

acters would change when the situation changed. At the
same time he saw the individual as the agent of social
change.
I have not allowed myself to deviate from this basic
c
Brechtian theory, even as l have tried to take the artisti

liberty of creating my own characters with a peculiar regional appeal, like those of Anthony, Apubai, Rama
s
Shetty, Seetadevi etc. I have also deleted certain scene

from the original play which could have hampered its
speed and appeal. I have taken the best care to see that
this transcreation would look authetic and bears no
resemblance to “Teen Paishanche Tamasha” - adapted

into Marathi by the late P. L. Deshpande.

l am sure the audience will like this adapation - and l
hope it will surpass the linguistic barrier with the help of
its intrinsic cosmopolitan, pluralistic appeal.

— Visit nu 8L1 rya Wag}!

