T E EN PAIS HA N C H 0 TIATR
Inspired by the great German playwright Bertolt Brecht’s

evergreen musical play - “The Threepenny Opera” Rangmell’s “Teen Pa/shancho Tiatr” throws glaring light

on our decaying social values. It may seem to be a
hilarious comedy from outwards, but from deep within it
is a serious comment on our devastating effort to

dehumanise ourselves by playing false, gaudy,
larger-than-life roles that we are destined to play. This is

a world where not only dreams are sold - but emotions
and human values are also set to action.
Set against the backdrop of a cosmopolitan city in Goa,
this play attempts to re-orient Brechtian theories in the
modern context. Cosmopolitan/5m has been a hallmark

of our life- it has reduced our existence to a mere
commodity - which you either have to buy with money,

muscle and power when you belong to the ‘haves’ or
steal and beg when you belong to the ‘have-nots.’ In the

end, you find yourself being ruled by the same dernonical
forces which you despised... which in turn makes you

shamefully realise that your life is not even worth three
paisas !
Though the play is named ‘Teen Paishancho Tiatr’, we

have not used the style and decor of ‘Tiatr’ in its original
form. We have deviated from the popular pattern of what

we know as ”Tiatr.” Here by ‘Tiatr’ we merely mean a
theatrical presentation - which may be an amalgamation
of all the contemporary trends that cater to various
audiences in their own way. As a result, you will find this

hotch-potch has been blended with Tiatr cantaras, folk
songs, natyasangeef, bhavgeet, devotional music and

also Hindi film parodies. Even the characters of this play
have been given ample freedom to choose the best form
of expression - regardless of the language they speak.
That’s why we can call “Teen Paishancho Tiatr” a
modern play in theatrical language !

We hope you will like this presentation. We hope it will
nment and
quench your thirst for light, speedy entertai
yet will continue to haunt the innards of your mind even
after you go home.
Happy Viewing ।
Brochure Design and Concept : VISHNU SURYA WAGH

