Immediately after its formation, the
Natya Sangham organised the regional
festivals and since 1959, annual festivals

are conducted on every 1st November,
the formation day of Andhra Pradesh.
The Natya Sangham organised Nataka
Kala Parishad Competitions in Drama
three times at Hyderabad. In 1964,
the third Andhra Pradesh festival of
Drama was organised and the proceeds
amounting to Rs. 17,500 were donated to
AndhraPradesh FloodRelief Fund .In 1965,

the 4th Drama

Festival was organised

and the nett proceeds were donated to

National Defence Fund.

7

Under the progamme of sponsoring
theatre troupes at Hyderabad, many
foreign and national troupes have suc—
cessf'uly staged their shows at Hyderabad
by utilising the service facilities.

Rao, Shri S. R; Mantri, Shri S. Gopala
Murthy, Shri A. R. Krishna were spon—
sored by Natya Sangham for studies at
National School of Drama, New Delhi,
Bombay, U. K. and U. S. A. ८ With their
experienced and trained personnel the
Natya Sangham venturned to start a
training school in Dramatic Art at Hy—
derabad, in the Natya Vidyalaya.
An experimental course for a period of
6 months were started in 1959 and a Certi—
ﬁcate Course of one-year in 1961, Under
the Directorship of Mr. Abburi Ramakrishna Rao.
The Natya Vidyalaya is
now conducting a 2-Year Diploma Course,
which is recognised by the Government of
Andhra Pradesh, In the 3rd-Year, the
students are required to work solely in
Vidyalaya Repertory, started in the year
1965.
The aim of the Natya Sangham is to

The Natya Sangham always stressed
the necessity of training and intellectual
equipment in the ﬁeld of Dramatic Arts.
Keeping this in View, it has never lost
any opportunity of sending its members for
obtaining advanced training in the- ﬁeld.
Shri Bakshi Shri Ram. Shri K. Prasada
rस्था… . T

provide a Theatre workshop as an adjunct

to the Natya Vidyalaya where practical
work could be done in Play Production,
puppetry, mask—making etc. The Vidya—
laya has to develop as a research—cumproduction Centre in folk and traditional
theatre forms also, in course of time.

The I Natya Sangham has conducted
'Iectures, forums and discussions on various topics on different occasions. Miss
. Rosamond Gilder,’ the present President
of- International Theatre Institute, Mr.
A. C. Scott, Director, Asian Theatre programme, Wisconsin University, U. S. A.

Prof. Jordan Y. Miller of Kansas University, U.S.A., were some of the visiting
theatre personalities, who spoke to inteé
rested audiences at Hyderabad, under the
auspices of Natya Sangham.
‘
हैहरीह११न्दिम३१थतल३१निल

