{it

Th e Dire ct or

Born on 6thjuly, 1928 at Almora (U.P.) Shri Mohan
Upreti obtained his Master's degree in Diplomacy and
International Affairs and Senior Diploma in Hindustani

classical Vocal Music from Allahabad University.
Shri Upreti is a multi—faceted personality. He is
a. music composer, teacher, director, folk lorest,

singer,writer, advisor. Founder director of Lok
Kalakar Sangha, Almora, he was Programme Director, Sriram BharatiyaKala Kendra New Delhi (1964—

1973). Associate Professor of Music: National School
of Drama (1977-1990).Visiting Professor of Music at
the Institute of Advanced Studies in Education,
Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi (1992-93). He was

also the Producer, Folk Theatre Festival organised
by Bharatiya Natya Sangh, New Delhi (1961) and
Music Director of Folk Dance Ensemble, Govern-

ment of India, Department of Culture (1974-75). '
Shri Upreti has done extensive work in
preservation and presentation of folk songs and

dances of Kumaon.His experience of adaptation of
folk lore

of Central

Himalayan

Region

to

contemporary stage includes music composition for
folk operatic plays presented by Parvatiya Kala
Kendra. New Delhi, They include Rajula Malushahi.
Ajuwa Bafaula, Rasik Ra17zol,]eetu Baga’wal, Bhana

Gangnath etc.
Shri Upreti has composed music for ballets and
plays presented by Song & Drama Division, Hindustani
Theatre, Abhiyan, Yatrik, Prayog and National School
of Drama. Plays include Bhagirath, Mudra Rakshas,

Mohan upreti

Ghasi Ram Kotwal, Mahanirvan, A 1zdha Yug,
Skandgupta, Damon's Death, Mother, Caucacean Chalk
Circle Mashrioz' Hoar, Uttarramcharit, Gandhi, Kanupriya
etc.

His directorial ventures apart from Ina'er Sabha,
include Vana’e Matmm—multi—media show for Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Rami, Megha’oot, Ramlila, Bhana

Ganganath, jeetu Bagaa'wal, Rasik Ramola etc. Shri
Upreti has written scripts for many dance—dramas
produced by Sriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, NewDelhi,
including Sitayan, Mirabai, Surdas, Krishnavatar,

Urvashi, Megha’oot etc. His published works include
Malushahi—the Ballad of Kumaon, Kumaoni Lok Geet,

Folk Songs of Kumaon for Hindi Sahitya Ka Vrihad
ltihaas.
Shri Upreti has received Bharatiya Natya Sangh

Award for Music Direction (1981), UP. Sangeet Natak
Award for Folk Dance (1985), Sumitra Nandan Pant
Award for services to Kumaoni (1987), North Sahitya
Kala Parishad, Delhi, Award for Theatre Music (1991)
Yash Bharati Samman of UP. Government (1994) He
has been conferred Ratan Sadasyata (Fellowship) of

the UP. Sangeet Natak'Akademi for his adaptations
of folk ballads for contemporary stage in 1994- He was

honoured, by Almora Municipal Committee in 1992.
Shri Upreti, who has visited 22 countries as leader

of the cultural delegations is presently President and
Hon. Director of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi
and Vice—President of UP. Sangeet Natak Akademi,
Lucknow.

