A Fascinating Entertainer
Amanat's Inder Sub/m written and ﬁrst staged in

traditional perfonning texts all over the country.

Lucknow in the early fifties of the 19th century, is

But its specific structure follows a performing pat—

an instance of a typical development of the traditional performing arts in north India particularly
the Hindi—speaking region. Like many other cultural
expressions here, the story of Inder Sablza also has

tern developed by that unique royal patron of arts,

a very mixed and many—layered source, including
Vikmmorvashiyam of Kalidasa and its various ver-

sions found in legends, folk tales as well as the
Urdu narrative poems called Masnavis written in
the last century. Similarly, its dramatic form is a
curious amalgam of elements from the theatrical,
musical and narrative genres, of the region like

Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, the ruler of Awadh, who
not only wrote scripts, created music and dance
scores for numerous Rahas and other performanc—
es, maintained elaborate establishment for the purpose, called Parikhana, but also participated in them
himself along with his queens. concubines and
hundreds of dancing girls, permanently employed

for the purpose.
With such emphasis on colourful dance and

music, it is not surprising that Inder Sabha became
Rasleela,

Rasak, Rahas, Bhagat, Swang, Kathak,

very popular in Lucknow when it was written and

Aalha, Dastangoyee (Storytelling) etc.
Inder Sub/2a, is designed totally as a play for

performed and later in other parts of northern India. Naturally, it was also often in the repertoire of

singing and dancing, without almost any prose dialogue, and has an in—built provision for prepon—
derance of dance which makes it substantially different from a Swang or Nautanki play. As a result,
the musical forms like Thumri, Hori, Dadra, Ghazal

famous parsi theatrical companies for almost a century. In spite of its ﬂimsy romantic narrative, it is a
fascinating entertainer,which if properly prepared can
build up audiences and sustain a theatre
company,though it requires a very resourceful team

and others have been incorporated in the text in a
manner more suitable for a Kathak dance recital
than for a dramatic performance. Even so, Inder
Sub/la is basically a musical play like many other

accomplished in music.dance as well as acting to
make its production an effective and worthwhile
theatrical experience.
N e mi Chandra J ain

