W मंV ५५५_

दृ"

८५

Beslrooked!
Enjoy all things scary at this two— day Halloween carnival
गृ' a m

SHRADDHA UCHIL
shraddha.uchil@mid-day.com
LOVE BOOKS? Love horror? Then

this is the place for you. At the
King’s Screech, a Halloween
extravaganza that will take place
this weekend, you can get your fill

of both. .
Movie buffs can look forward to
a free screening of Carrie, a film
about a shy, reserved girl who,
after becoming the buttof ridicule

in school, unleashes her telekinetic
powers on her classmates. There
will also be a free screening of The
Shining, the 1980 Jack Nicholson
starter that continues to be eerily
terrifying. For those who didn’t
know, both movies are adaptations

of novels by Stephen King.
Tickle your funny bone by attending Paranormal Schizophrenia, a horror comedy show by
Utsav Chakraborty R350). While
we’re on the topic of stand-up
comedy, All India Bakchod’s Rohan
Joshi will be hosting a fun Stephen

King Quiz (i500). You can also be a
part of a fun Defence Against the

Dark Arts workshop On how to
banish demons, vampires and
zombies by Kaneez Surka.
If panel discussions pique your
interest, head to one moderated by
Vivek 'I‘ejuja and featuring Kiran
Manral and Sukanya Venkat, both
authors of horror books. There will

Children attending a previous Halloween event at the venue
also be a session featuring actor- both adults and little ones (000)Besides all this, there will be a
singer Suchitra Krishnarnoorthi,
who has just released a new Neil Gaiman-‘inspired aural maze
by Sound.Codes, Tarot card readhorror novel.
There is also plenty in store for ings, and Halloween —- and horror—
kids. Theatre artiste Akriti Singh inspired ३ food at The Hungry
will spook children aged eight and Traveller Cafe.
Don your best Halloween cosup with hair-raising ghost stories
written by Ruskin Bond (२25०). The tume (best outfits win prizes) and
artsy kinds can head to a print- head to this fun carnival.
making art workshop by The
October 22 and 23
Pomegranate Workshop con, The Hive, 50-A, Huma Mansion,
- ducted by artist Komal Suryawan—
shi. The workshop will be next to Ahmed Bakery, Chuim Village
accompanied by readings of horror Road, Khar (W).
bookmyshow.com
stories written by Edgar Allen Poe

and narrated by dancer, storyteller
and dramatist Advaita Mane (.50
inclusive of art material). Selftaught magician Karan Chauhan
will hold a comedy horror magic
show, which can be enjoyed by
Comics Rohan
Joshi and
V
Kaneez Surka .
will be hosting.
some of
the events

3e greeted by spooky interiors

