TRO है OF THE

श्या BEARER
"i

ri(

Lakha Khan is the seventh generation in a family of rnu'sicians tho have been carrying forward the tradition of'
Rajasthani folk and suti music whose legacy is said to date ha airnost 400 years. By J iGYASU JOSHI
r ,: “v

है स्था

दु;

दु I»...

19

l

i

ation in a family of musicians
who have been carryin forward
the tradition of Rajas ani folk
and suﬁ music whose legacy is
said to date back almost 400
years. He reminisces the time

s
Lakh a
Kh an
Manganiyar stands on
the stage to present his
folk culture to the patrons of
music, he ﬁrst raises his hands
to “greetthe Maharaja ofJodhpur
and expresses his gratitude for
being invited to perform at the
३ . onﬁping Rajasthan International
F0 Festival in Jodhpur. He
mesmerises the audience with
५ his three back—to—back performances and goes backstage in
thunder of applauds. “I feel so
honoured to . perform for the
audience who appreciate every
bit of the music,” he says.
He speaks of a bygone era
when his father Tharu Khan
urged him to continue his legacy long after he was gone. Like
an obedient son and a faithful
pupil, Lakha Khan strictly
adhered to his teachings on
how to hold tones and internalised the stories behind ragas.
“When I was eight years old, I
use to sit next to my father while
he played. I wasn’t learning to
playat that time butI lovedwhat

when he ﬁrst went for his international performance. “I ¸ was
wondering the whole .time that
what will the foreigners under—
stand ofthis music andlanguage
of it? It was ver confusing to
me. However, er every song ,
we performed, the audience (
applauded us. It was then I I
' understood that it was not lan-

guage but the universal language I
of music which had bound
usi’explains Khan.
':
Lakha Khan shares that
despite gaining recognition, the
Government doesn’t extend support to the community of folk 1
musicians and have almost
abandoned them. He says, दृ

he played. It was when I turned formers and their repertoire.
-11 that myfather started teach- Masters like Siddique Khan for
ing me how to play Sindhi the khartaal and Sakar Khan for
sarangi,” he says.
the kamaicha have passed away
Speaking about the chang- and the next generation do not
ing status of folk music in know as many songs,” says the
Rajasthan, he feels that the pre— folk singer and musician. Now
sent generation does not know in his 703, Lakha recalls that
as many songs. “The quality is when he was young, he himself
going down. It is not the same didn’t care much about the raga
quality as before — both in मृ and just sang and played saran—
terms of the quality of the per— gz' with passion. “I just sang in

’WHEN I WAS EIGHT
YEARS OLD, I USE TO SIT
NEXT TO MY FATHER
- WHILE HE PLAYED. |
WASN’T LEARNING TO
PLAY AT THAT TIME BUT I
LOVED WHAT HE PLAYED’

“Political parties come and go ३
Raga Bhairavi anytime. Didn’t but theyhardly ask after us. They द
really think ofthe audience. But have left us to earn and eat how- र
gradually I came to know that it ever we can. It is sadas In future :
is only dishonesty that I was generation might face '3 too.
showing towards my work Now Ifnot for music, we do not have _
I sing in all the ragas according anyother skill and won’t be able '
to the time. Like Bhairavi is to survive at all.”
meant for the morning, and in
A recipient of the Sangeet
the evening you sing Durga Natak Akademi award, Lakha
Kalyan. I am now honest to my Khan is among the last in the
Manganiyar lineage to have
art,” he says.
Khan is the seventh gener- mastered the Sindhi sarangi.

