MASS MOVEMENT IN THEATRE -' A PANORAMIC VIEW
39
Darshan Chaudhary

People’s theatre (Garla-Natya) with full of promise emerged as a natural
need when the tidal bore of the diabolical tyranny and macabre Vlolance
prOpetrated by the Fascists and Imperialist machinery of the second world war
hit the planes of our socio-economic and cultural fronts.

But as years wore on, the gloss over the expectancy of the movement
started fading and this trend Was evidenced markedly a year after independence. Protugonists of this movement mainly drawn from the middle class failed
miserably to shun their inherent armchair-revolutionary mentality and also
sustain the rigour and austerity involved to this type of movement. That real
art is an assential weapon for mass movement they failed to grasp Thus, a
bunch of misﬁts smitten by stark reality were in frantic need of a refuge which

would nestle their bourgeoise character as well show off a nuance of art, resu1-.
ting the formation of ‘Nabanatya’ (theatrical nu wave). The emergence of art
Nabanatya came as relief to the capitalists and vested interests who were totally

unhappy with People’s thearte and they seized this opportunity to foster this
Nabanatya movement with immense resorces at its disposal. Eventually the
workers of this movement, being isolated from mass, which is live wire of class
struggle were waylaid to the road of commercial exposition of ﬁction tales
delineation of boy-meets-girl type story and development of meticulous, details
of stage craft and treatment.

The nu-wave, backed by establishments ‘patronage, generous funds and
wide publicity by press achieved its height of fame and fanfare in no time No
wonder through the characters such as Amal, Bimal, Kama], Indrajit Manasee,
the audience were suﬁiciently confused and distracted from uncompromising
class-stuggle and led to the mystic world of frustration, cynicism, individual
tragedy/helplessness and obscurity , Due to inherent middle-class mentality, they
could not resist the temptation to blow-up of their image. through newly chri-

stened brand "'GrOUp Theatres”. The cultural movement ultimately became a
platform for individual fame, devoid
sibility. Those, once champions for the
more proﬁtable yatras or established
cinema, And poses no surprise to us

of any social-awareness and responcauses of have-nots unhesitantly joined
them selves as cloums or villains in
when we ﬁnd an artist of a celebrate

