group theatre; appreciating the sensuous hep-swinging of a Cabaret danc
er.
All these in the name of pure art, alias aba-natya alias Group-theatre.
But shrewd and pragmatic a they were, these “Group-theatre’ soon
sensed a muffled rejection by the audience and they changed the label; an
offshoot “Theatre with different form” (Anya Theatre); just by coining new
words, they endeavoured to save their hides. Assuming an outlook purely
akin to that of a commercial theatres; i , e , “feelings a rightists and aspirations
a capitalists”, there groups, “theatre with different form” ultimately fell prey

to the self-establishment and magniﬁcation of personal images. Totally oblivious of the essence and spirit of mass-movement, these theatrical groups
thought of' pipelining culture from their citadel of art i. e, Calcutta. Thus, one

can easily discern the root causes of the fissi, parous tendencies that lead to
the collapse of such groups like house of cards.
The modus operandi of these turn-coats has been to present before the
public a limping and distorted picture of the original movement in an attempt
to misguide the mass. However a band of staunch enthusiasts of people’s
theatre retained the original idealogies and mustered strength in secluded
corners in the countryside, tinstil the very essence of the movement yet in its
true form, dispite being relentlessly pulled down by tile bourgeois agent provocateurs, These otherwise least publicised theatrical organisations in the countryside find themselves through the spontaneity of downtrodden mass.
Fortunately, enough, the commercial theatres and their kindered are
conﬁned to the allurements of the city only. a1 :ented from the vast humanity
in the countryside, while the other little known groups. who picked up the
original cue left by I. P. T. A. still maintain the proper spirit in highlighting

uncompromising ﬁght for class-struggle, though under very trying and adverse
circumstances. To ward off the ills prOpagated by the Stlf styled commercial
and semi-commercial theatres and the like an irreconcilable revolt is called for
by joining hands with these true followers of the original movement, Operating

mostly in villages, and also those in "Group theatrs” who still struggle to keep
up the original spirit of the movement
Lustly one much not forget that in the class-struggle the cultural front,

particularly to keep the consciousness of the mass alive, has been as important
… as mass movement.

