and others. Bansi Kaul had the
occassion to see the variations of
Indian folk forms and styles from
very close quarter while touring
through the various cities of India.
In Lucknow he produced Hindi
adaptation of Gogol’s ’Inspector
General’ in nautanki style called
'Alla Afsar’. 'Alla Afsar’ became
milestone production in contemporary Indian theatre history.

training methodology for Indian
actors in a project for Ford Foundation. In this methodology he
tried to integrate the elements of
narrative singing and nativeacrobatics.

Bansi Kaul contributed significantly as Art Director for the
Festivals of India within the
country and outside. He was
associated as a designer and
Visualiser of Festival of India in
His commitment to theatre was
USSR. He also had a small affair
noted and in 1977 he was nomiwith films. He was art director of
nated as a member of General
Council of Sangeet Natak Akademi the famous Kannada film ’Chomanna Dudi’. Bansi Kaul has also
and was also a member of its
tried his hand in writing. He
executive. He represented the
wrote a play "I‘ankara’ in collaboacademy on the executive of
ration with Rajesh Ioshi. Bansi’s
National School of Drama as a
nominated member. In 1980-81 he few poems have been published
in literary magazines. He also has
was Professor in The Deaprtment
of Extension of National School of composed music for some of his
own productions. Shri Bansi Kaul
Drama. During this period he
has staged more than 80 plays as
organised and conducted imporDirector and designer which
tant workshops and seminars and
range from Hindi to Punjabi,
produced Ben Jonson’s ’Volpone’
Tamil, Singhali and Sanskrit.
adapted into Bhavai style an
incorporated eminent Bhavai
His better known productions
artiste Chirnan Bhai Nayak. In
are-: Dhamak Nagare di, Mrichhka1982—83 he joined Shri Ram Centre tikarn, Oedipus, Antigone, KiradRangmandal as its director and in
dam, Pinam-Pinam Shastrangal,
its Theatre Festival, during this
Panchaali Shabdam, Hanso, Lamar
period, presented many young
Khan Ka th, Acche Aadmi,
directors for the first time.
Andha-Yug, Hoin hein vehi [0 Ram
Rachi Rakha, Mother, Panchi aise
He also conducted Theatre WorkAte Hein, Veni Sanhar, and Alla
shops and seminars in Sri Lanka,
Afsar etc.
Poland, Czechoslavakia, France,
Holland and England. He was
Bansi Kaul has a dream to follow:
invited to America under the
he wants to establish a 'Repertory
’International Visitors Pro-

gramme’. He tried to evolve new

of Clowns’.

