DIRECTOR’S NOTE
This play for me and the whole
cast is a step forward in the
search for ’Indian Realism’. I
have always felt that we should
evolve our own realism, like

France or Germany, or any other
western nation did, and not

reproduce a watered down
misunderstood version of western realism. I find our classical
plays provide an interesting
example of their own kind of
realism; it is like being on the
razor’s edge where you face the
danger of being either naturalistic
or completely stylised. Further in
our classical tradition lies a
ﬂuidity of time and space which
is a liberating challenge. Thus
Sharvilak for me provided an
ample base to launch this search.
For though Sharvilak is inspired
from Bhasars ’Charudatta’ and
’Shudraka Mrichhkatikum’ yet it
is almost like a new script, in
which there are old characters
but with added highlights and
dimensions as well as some new
characters. For the basic underlying tone of the play is ’change of
power’ through a civil uprising.
Social & political change is
relevant in any period thus it has
significance and appears new.
Even the characters appear as full
ﬂedged human beings with
multi-dimensional personality.
For instance Sharvilak is not just
Madanika’s lover or a petty thief
but the motivating factor in in—
stalling Aryak to power through
a civil uprising. Vasantsena of
’Mrichhkatikam’ is not just meant

for Shringara and pining for
Charudatta but participates in
uprising and questions Aryak the
new ruler whether ’people like
Arya Charudatta will not be murdered’, Similarly Madanika is not
just Vasantsena’s maid and
Sharvilak’s lover but contributes
to the uprising. Similarly other
characters, revolutionaries are

not depicted as heroic characters
but they have their weak points
also like gambling and womansing. Love is seen as an important
dimension in the life of revolutionaries, it re-inforces and

inspires them.

The form of the play is such that
actors sometimes extend their
voices to play with locales so as
to create a sense of time and
space that transcends the physical into the cosmic and thus
creates an imaginary space in
mind of the audience while being
physically present on the stage.
This has done by extension of
words or movements, postues or
by sounds.

The set is designed in an oval
shape similar to an artistes
palette which holds different
colours (characters) Light design
is such that it adds to the flow of
the play. There is never a moment of total darkness on the
stage. As one scene fades out
another fades in immediately
thus imparting its own rhythm.
Music in this play is protagonist,
it has its own individual charac-

