responsible for Charudatta’s
poverty as the latter was sympathetic towards Gopalak. He also
tells her that Sidha has forecasted
Aryaka will be the ruler. Madanika
reveals Sharvilak’s identity that he
can help to change the situation.
The seeds of change are sown.
SCENE 7
Shwetpadma entreats Palak to let
her go to her Shaksthan as she
reveals that she and her brother
are treated with disrespect here as
they are not Aryas: Bharat enters
disguised as a Bhikshu and reveals
to Palak that his elder brother’s
son Aryaka is still alive and lives
with his mother in an ashram by
the Shipra’s overside. He plans to
capture Aryaka along with
hundred soldiers disguised as
budhist monk.

On seeing that Sharvilak is about
to leave she calls both of them to
her and informs Madanika now
she is free to go with Sharvilak
and blesses them. They leave but

Sharvilak on hearing the announcement that Aryaka is
captured leaves Madanika with
Vasantsena. They part. Vasantsena sends Madanika to
Rabhil’s house.
Maitraka enters and tells Vasantsena that Charudatta has
gambled away her ornaments
and sends her his wives Ratnavali. Vasantsena knowing the
truth accepts the Ratnavali and
sends a message to Charudatta
that she will see him in the
evening.

SCENE 10
Aryaka is contemplating at the
strangeness that everyone addresses him as Maharaja. DarduSCENE 8
raka comes and tells him that
Nandanaka tells Sharvilak that
Bharat Rohtak is planning to attack Sharvilak has sent him his true
identity and departs. Aryaka
the ashrama at Shipra with 100
Shakya Bhikshu. Sharvilak plans a prepares himself for his actual
role. Bharat enters the Ashram
strategy: he tells Darduraka to go
at the ashram and face Bharat and; and by deceit captures Aryaka.
Vit to go and brainwash Shakar
Sharvilak sets forth to free Madan- SCENE 11
Maitraika feels the responsibility
ika .
of guarding. Vasantsena’s ornaments is a heavy responsibility in
SCENE 9
such hard times. He in fact name
Sharvilak and Madanika meet.
Sharvilak reveals the ornaments he Charudatta to forget about
has stolen telling her that now she Vasantsena, and attending
meetings. Both of them are asleep
can be forced from Vasantsena’s
bondage. Madanika is horrified to when Sharvilaka enters
Sharvilaka makes away with
see Vasantsena’s ornaments.
Vasantsena’s ornaments in a
Vasantsena is matching the scene.

