SCENE 14
Radanika tries to make
Charudatta’s son Rohit to play
SCENE 12
It is raining. Maitrak informs
with clay—cart. 'I‘o divert his attenCharudatta that Vasantsena will
tion Radanika takes her to Vasbe coming and complains that
antsena. Vasantsena gives Rohit
she did not welcome him propher ornaments so that he can
erly. Vasantsena arrives drenched make a gold cart out of them.
and she changes her clothes.
Radanika informs her that
Chetti tells Maitraka that VasVardhamanak has come to take
antsena has gambled away the
her to meet Charudatta, she tells
Ratnavali so she offers the stolen them to wait as she will beautify
ornaments in lieu of Ratnavali.
herself and then come.
Charudatta does not understand. Charudatta’s driver Sthavarak is
Vasantsena explains him everydriving Charudatta’s driver
thing and also informs him that
Vardhamanak leaves as he had
Sharvilak is actually Maharnatya forgotten to get a cushion.
Shalankayan’s son. Charudatta
Shakar’s driver Sthavarak is
tries to woe her but Vasantsena
driving his bullock cart and parks
says that there must be a civil
it infront of Charudatta’s house
revolt in Ujjaini as how can one
to see what commotion is haptalk of love here where women
pening on the road.
face the constant danger of being Vasantsena sits in Shakar’s
assaulted victirnised. Charudatta bullock cart thinking it to
is also converted and on receivCharudatta’s. In the meantime
ing Sharvilak’s message departs. there follows an announcement
that Aryaka escaped.
SCENE 13
Madanika disguised as a male
Sharvilak is depressed at his
enters with Aryaka whom she
failure to free Aryaka from
has freed with the help of the
Bharati captivity, he tries to kill
Rajmudra. Vardhamanak arrives
himself but is prevented by
and calls out for Vasantsena.
Darduraka. Charudatta arrives.
Madanika hides Aryaka in
Sharvilak is ashamed to meet
Charudatta’s cart. The king’s
Charudatta but he is forgiven for soldiers capture Madanika who
stealing ornaments. They talk of a says she will reveal only to the
way of freeing Aryaka, Sharvilak ruler Palak.
reveals he has left the Rajmudra
of Palak with Madanika with
SCENE 15
whom he was parted. Madanika
Nandanaka is washing his cheevar
arrives with the Rajmudra and
in Shakar’s pond when Shakar
wants to be with Sharvilak to aid arrives who is a sworn enemy
of
him in his mission.
Budh Bhikshus. He runs for his
humorous episode.

