About the Play
H amare Samay Mei n underlines the decadence of a unipolar world where one loses sight
of the possibilities for an alternative existence. It profiles the contour of dramas and hopes
Man has to live with when the tradition of resistance is getting thinner and thinner.

The play builds up a worldview through the protagonist, Mukul/s downturn from

strong ideological convictions. It is his transparency of purpose and Ito-compromise mindset
that makes Shalki, his wife, adore him as an ideal. rnukul loses his job because of his
convictions but Shalki, a journalist with a news channel, stands behind him like a rock. Yet

Mukul fails to endure the pulls and pangs of a sick time marked by the worldliness of Keke

and Ghavri. He desert his principles but only to be encountered by the (otherness/ of the
world.

About the Playwright
Honoured with Mohan Rakesh Samman, Shahid Anwar is one of
the most promising playwrights of our time. He is a theatre—Critic of
high repute as well. His plays like Ghair Zaroori Log, Soopna Ka
Sapna and B—Three have won wide acclaim. He has a collection of

plays, Chair Zaroori log, to his credit published in Urdu and Hindi
both. His second anthology is soon to be published. His plays have I
participated in major theatre festivals like Bharat Rang Mahotsava, Sahitya Kala Parishad
Natya Utsava and Delhi Urdu Academy Drama Festival. In his effort to enrich theatre in
Hindi and Urdu, he has adapted the writings of eminent playwrights including Badal Sircar
and Manoj Mitra. His Final Solutions, a translation of Mahesh Dattani/s English play, has
been ruling the stage since I 997.
Shahid Anwar has contributed columns, reviews and articles to the leading magazines,
journals and dailies including The Indian Express (Delhi), Khaleej Times (Dubai), South

Asian Observer (Canada), Jansatta (Delhi) and Sahara Samay (Delhi He has also penned
tele*scripts for many TV series. He is a founder—member of Bahroop, a theatre group best
known for its promotion of theatre of resistance. He is an Indian Information Service cadre

associated with a Defence fotnightly.

