1) DPS Mathura Road (Senior)
2) DPS Mathura Road (Junior)
3) Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market
4) Kendriya Vidyalaya, RK Purarn

5) Laxman Public School, Hauz Khas
6) Dev Samaj Modern School, Srinivaspuri

7) Happy School, Darya Ganj.
The Children received training in dance, drama and music under the guidance of
experienced teachers, choreographers, music directors and tabla accompanist.

The trainers were charged Rs. 5/- for admission and Rs. 10/- per month as fee for
ten months of the year. No fees were charged during the two months of summer vacation.
Ten conveners and four peons, nominated by the heads of the schools where
training centres are located, helped in the regular work of the training centres.

Finance : Against our estimated budget, Rs. 3000/— was received by us from the
Sangeet Natak Akademi. The audited statement of the income & expenditure and Balance
Sheet of the Delhi Children’s Theatre for the year 1982-83 will give a clear pictures of our

ﬁnancial position.

Annual Festival :

During the year under ¸ review, the Delhi Children’s Theatre

held a four day festival at the Mavalankar Auditorium on February 15th, 17th, 18th & 19th,

1983. The festival drew large crowd. The rush of school children was overwhelming.
There were two shows in the morning at 10 am. and 12 noon exclusively for children and
one show in the evening at 6.30 fun. for general public. Tickets were sold at the rate of
Rs. 3/- for school children

and Rs. 5/- for adults.

A special souvenir was brought out on

the occasion.

The Lt. Governor of Delhi, Shri Jagrnohan, the Chief Executive Councillor of Delhi,
Shri Jag Pravesh Chandra. the Union Minister for Communications, Shri V. N. Gadgil and

the Union Deputy Minister for Electornics, Shri Sanjeevi Rao, witnessed our festival programme.

Thcy addressed the children and encouraged them.

They highly appreciated

our programme.
I, on behalf of the Delhi Children’s Theatre, hereby extend our sincere thanks to
all those who had offered their whole—hearted cooperation and support in various ways in
the all round success of the festival. We are thankful to our members Insitutions for their
ready response and enthusiastic participation in the festival. Our thanks are also to those
who readily helped us by releasing advertisements for our festival souvenir. The BUT IS

also grateful to the volunteers for rendering services during the festival days.

