I thank all members of the festival committee for their whole hearted cooperation
and hard work in all round success of the festival.

Smt. Shyama Aggarwal and Smt. Purnima Bondopadhyaya deserved our thanks
for coordinating festival activities and for supervising the programme. I thank Smt. Sumana
Mukherjee for helping decoration inside and outside the Mavalankar Auditorium during
the

festival

days.

I thank our souvenir secretaries, Smt. Chandrabali Das and Shri

Sukumar Das Sarma for looking after the festival Souvenir. The cover page of the souvenir
was designed by Kumari Soma Taluqdar. She deserves our thanks. It would be unbecoming of us if we do not express our sincere appreciation of the services rendered by the
Shyam Book Depot who printed the souvenir at short notice and with minimum cost.
During the Asian Games in November 1982. the Delhi Children’s Theatre was

invited to present cultural items. The DCT students presented two items on 29 Nov. 1982,
Ekalabya and Chandalika, at the Pragati Maidam, under the guidance of our Choreographers
Smt. Sujata Dinesh, Smt. Annapurna Rathore, Shri Bhagwati Prassad Pandey and Music
Director Smt. Malabika Baul.

The Chairman of Trade Fair Authority, Mohd Yunus, and

other dignitaries witnessed the programme which was highly appreciated. We are thankful
to Trade Fair Authority for giving us Rs. 1,000/- to meet a part of our expenses for this
programme.

We are grateful to our President Smt. Shyama Aggarwal f'or kindly donating
Rs. 2,000/- towards the expenses incurred for this programme. But for her timely ﬁnancial
help, it would not have been possible for us to present this programme.
Land & Building :

I am happy to announce that the plot of .72 acres of land in

Department of
Defence Colony, allotted to Delhi Children’s Theatre, was released by the

Land and Development, Ministry of Works and Housing.
to get
We are grateful to Smt. Purnima Bondopadhyaya for her untiring efforts
this land released.

Future Programme: We all have now to cooperate to get our Theatre Building
for use,
constructed as quickly as possible. Once our theatre is built and is ready
Training
we can increase our activities. We are also making efforts to open more DCT
Centres in Schools in Delhi.

Children’s
Our Chairman, Smt. Lakshmi Mazumdar, who is the founder of Delhi
formed to continue the
Theatre, has expressed a desire that a Trust should be immediately
making efforts to form a
activities of this 30 year old organisation. Accordingly, we are
Trust as early as possible.

Smt. INDIRA CHATTERJE
Hony. General Secretary
Delhi Children’s Theatre

