BACK TO
CONTEMPORARY
PRASANNA

arrived in the sixties; whether it be

Mohan Rakesh’s Adhe Adhure or
Lankesh’s one-act plays in Kannada or
Tendulkar’s early plays in Marathi or
Badal Sircar’s in Bengali; they had all

A theatre director in many sense is a

been published in the sixties. They

literary critic. He chooses a text the
same way a critic does. Hence the

were all torn, turbid and quite deliberately shocking. Yet they survived and
be called good literature.

choice of a particular text at a given
point of time becomes crucial in
deﬁning the director’s work. To that
extent my choice of Girish Karnad’s
Anju Mallige today, is my personal
statement.
Anju Mallige was written more than
seventeen years ago. It was published

Seventies and eighties was a different
period as far as Indian drama was
concerned. It was a period dominated
by theories of nativisrn. It was a bad
time for literary texts and a rather good
one for traditionalist theatre. It was a
time drowned in the noice of drums,

in 1977. It has never been staged,

except for a half- hearted attempt in
Kannada, immediately after its

martial arts and ritualistic notions.
Even major playwrights fell for the
lure of Desivad. They changed styles
overnight and wrote ‘Indian looking’
plays.

publication, by Shankar Nag. Anju
Mallige was almost disowned by
everybody. Kannada critics circumvent Anju Mallige and reached Girish ' Better ones amongst them crafted
aesthetically pleasing and competently
Karnad, while discussing contemporary Kannada drama. The play did not written texts. Girish Karnad wrote
Hayavadana and Nagamandala.
reach anywhere outside Karnataka, _
Tendulkar wrote Ghasi ram Kotwal,‘
for the last seventeen years. Well,
Chandrashekhara Karnbar wrote
Anju Mallige has embarrassed many
Jokumaraswamy.
Others, not so
people.
talented and hopelessly out of tune
In order to understand the reasons for
with the imagined world they were
critics’ embarrassment towards Anju
talking about, produced endless yarns
Mallige,one has to look at the times it
of weak and senseless narrative.
first appeared. It appeared ten years
Here it is important to understand the
late. The likes of Anju Mallige, had

