the sixties. The main players are
Indian students, their European .
ﬁancees and a fascist lorry driver. And
the theme, brother sister incest. The

actual act of unnatural sex does not
happen on stage, if at all, it has

happened much earlier during adolescence. Of the two, the brother has
gotten over it, or almost gotten over it
and Yamini, the sister, is the one who
suffers it.
Girish is handling, probably for the
ﬁrst time in all his creative endeavour,
guilt of such immense magnitude. He
goes about doing it, exactly the way it
is done in Greek tragedies. Yamini is
doomed. Yamini is destructive. She is
as ferocious as Medea. But then,

unlike a Greek tragedy in Anju
Mallige, it all happens in a real space.
Hence, a lot of foul language, dirty
deeds and actual blood spills on stage.
This is the real crisis of Anju Mallige,

the play.
Critics of seventies and eighties,

enjoying the quietitude of aesthetically
signiﬁcance of Dharamvir Bharati’s
Andhayug. Andhayug is probably the
only Indian play that can be termed
Desi and yet dazzlingly modern.
Dharamvir Bharati wrote Andhayug
much before the nativist theories
arrived. And being a poet, Bharati
went on to construct a literary text
instead of a mere theatre script. Ratan
'I‘hyiam’s Chakravyuha, Peter
Brook’s Mahabharata are examples
of the opposite.
I believe Anju Mallige to be a very
good play. But then I shall restrain
myself from proclaiming so. A proper
assessment of any literary text can only
happen over a period of time and
through many exposures to the public
and the critic. I can only provide such
an exposure to Anju Mallige, through
this production of mine. If Anju
Mallige emerges as the most important
event in modern Indian Drama after

Rakesh’s Adhe Adhure, I shall be too
pleased.

Comparison between Anju Mallige and
Adhe Adhure ends with them being
realistic. Anju Mallige is a realistic
play but unlike Rakesh, Girish Karnad
is a conﬁrmed classicist. Girish
Karnad can never settle for a theme
that sound mundane and trivial. So he
forces a theme of primordial incest,
that too of the Indian variation: YamaYarni Sarnvada.
Anju Mallige happens in Oxford, in

pleasing Desivad could not have
suffered such Besurapa'n of key note.
To be fair to them, Girish did not even

try. He kept his Anju Mallige in cold
storage and instead fed the critics with
his more pallatable Hayavadana and
Nagamandala.
Girish has always had this in him. He
is too careful, too clever. But then
nobody else can craft a play like he
does. Anju Mallige is a well crafted
play. He does not even create a new

