structure for Anju Mallige. He picks
up proto types he has developed in his
earlier works and puts it in an alien
surrounding : Oxford.
Anju Mallige is at once a realistic play
and a classical play. Yamini is both a
real person and a mythical being. If
the fascist lorry driver personiﬁes
death, Gautham the shy Indian student
personiﬁes life. If Satish the brother,
is Devadatta, David the lorry driver is
Kapila. Yamini is simply an inverted
version of Tughlaq. She is as stately
and as violent as 'I‘ughlaq.

Giddade. But then, Giddade did not
have a mythical space. It was at the
best a social space. It did not work
very well even in Adhe Adhure. But
then, we accepted Adhe Adhure for it

Contemporary Indian Theatre is
straddled between two extremes :
Popular vulgarism and aesthetic
purisrn. Last two decades were
dominated by the purist. Contempo-

being Adhe and Adhure. Literary

rary theatre had a setback because of

judgements are seldom done on the
basis of aesthetic perfection. On the
contrary a good work of art is aesthetically polluting.

half backed theories of nativisrn.
Indian drama has to be personal ﬁrst
and public later: it has to be contemporary ﬁrst and Indian later.

The only difference between an artist
and an actual pollutant is that an artist
knows when, where and how a foreign
element is introduced into a work of

Unless we bring back literary text to
the centre stage, theatre cannot
advance. Theatre is interpretive.

do not know of another Indian play,
except may be in the popular genre such

art. He is striving to create a new

thea tre is contemporary and

aesthetic. The other fellow does not

embarrassing. Those who do not

as Sohrab and Rustam, that is as

even know, when he spoils a land-

like embarrassment. should go

dramatic as Anj u Mallige.

scape. He is like someone who walks
into a modern art gallery, chewing pan

and listen to classical music, or else

Satish’s ﬁancee Julia provides for the
opposite of Yamini. She has seen all
the goryness of life and yet emerges

innocent and beautiful. Yamini has
seen nothing. Yamini is a virgin. In
fact the rupture ofher virginity
happens, not through incest, but
through a violent intrusion of a dirty
and fascist phallus. Such a violent
rupture is her destiny. She plans it and
conducts it with the dignity of a
religious ritual.
Such are the dramatic opposites that this
play provides for. They are enormous. I

Will it work? or won’t it? It did not
work very well in Vijay Tendulkar’s

and spills it out through sheer habit,

on to a canvas.

Because of its capacity to question,

see classical dance. One should only
do that for which one has
passion.

