Ever wondered about Buddha‘s wisdom combined with elements of dance? If not, Budd ha—The Why
Within, an l ndo—Frenoh dance performance will act as a guiding light

Wisdoir’r in steps
MANPRM Silver!
Centuries-old
institutions
could do with a whifl‘ofinnovation, as much as current
troubled times with a bit of
old-worldwisdom.
Alliance
Fiancaise de
Chandigarh in association
with CITCO presents Buddha— The Why Within. an
Indo—ﬁench dance performance. bringing in the elements of Kathak and tap
dance. “This performance is
not about the life ofBuddha,
butabout his philosophy —of
peace. sacriﬁce andrenunciav
tion," Mitul Serigupta, from
Kolkata-based Kathak and
Western contemporary dance
company gets started about
the collaboration. The presentation is about the most

pragmatic yet unsung characters from the Mahabharata—Ulupi. Barbareek and
Aravan. who dwell on love
and sacrifice as they search
for the eternal truth as
embodied by Buddha.
mln‘om context
But underlying the blend of
two inﬂuences is an attempt
to ﬁnd a current context to
ancient tradition,while in the
process make it connect with
youngsters, “In the production, we've tried infusing
Kathak with elements ofcontemporary dance," shares the
artistic
director Ronnie
Shambik Ghose. “The idea
was to make it more appealing to youngsters whileat the
same time keep the essence
ofKathak alive."

A combination of Western
classical music, Buddhist
chants and Indian classical
music reﬂect a sense of deep
turbulence as alsoa reﬂective
peace. “I will be performing
the traditional art with a different kind of body language,” adds Mitul Sengupta,
having already taken theper
formance to cities in India
and currently on a ﬁve-city
tour: The 30 minutes ofBuddha will be followed by yet
another 30 minutes of
excerpts from Swan Lake\, STAGE ACT: the team behind the danceperiomianoe Buddha—lhe Why Within
“We have also performed at
a passing mention ofthe situ- ing beenwith thegroup since while the attacks happened.
the Royal Danish Theatre."
Itwas unfortunate...but we'll
ation back home and “It is 2011 and all set to regalethe
shares the other member.
very ditﬁcult, as these are audience with his exhilarat- cope As for India. I like this
troubled times but you have ingtap. Chips in Viviana Sal- culture and the meaning it
Tonga times
Amidst all the talk of stage to be a professional. Can't vo, joining in the group only has to lend" Cheers to
props and the impending leave the tour mid-way," four days before the tour human resilience.
rrwmryaduimramii
performance in the evening. shares Yonna Loringett, hav- started, “Yes we were here

.

