Message from the President of Delhi Commonwealth Women's
Association.
It gives the Delhi Commonwealth Women's Association great pleasure in welcoming
you here this evening to the play "The Secretary Bird."

This is our main fund-

raising activity of the year. We hope all of you who have joined us will have a
pleasant evening and enjoy the comedy being staged.

Your patronage and contribution to our funds will greatly help to finance the many
needy causes which we support.

The D.C.W.A. contributes financial aid to at least thirty institutions consisting of
orphanages, educational institutes, hospitals, clinics and creches as well as to a
number of deserving individual cases such as those disabled by accidents or disease.
The association raises funds through subscriptions and donations from its members
and contributions from the public and also by organising fund-raising functions.

The Delhi Commonwealth Women’s Association was formed in 1952 and the
membership consists of ladies from various

Commonwealth Countries and India.

The object of our association is to foster social and cultural activities among women
of the Commonwealth resident in Delhi, and to organise, encourage and finance
social welfare activities through its members.

By working together for the benefit

of others, the members of the Commonwealth countries are brought in touch with
each other and this gives them an insight into the life of the Indian commun
ity
around them.

The requests to the D.C.W.A. for financial and physical assistance from institut
ions
and individuals are thoroughly investigated by the Association's Social
Services
Committee and its recommendations come to the Executive Commit
tee with whom

rests the final decision. It is only after an appeal is fully approved that
the Social
Services Committee distributes the funds.

On behalf of the D.C. W. A.

I extend our very grateful thanks to the British High

Commission Amateur Dramatic Club for so readily and willing
ly staging this play
for the benefit of the charities supported by our Association.

The Association thanks all of you for your generosity
in coming and

making this

evening a very successfulgonev-an
e sincerely hope you will continue to extend
your support to us in the uturetw v ९,

.

. '51:; न

छुट्टेक्त
ि सल-प-प्र- - - , A.
\I

Deep Duga/
President, D.C.W.A.

