DIRECTOR’S NOTE

L
While our bookshops are over-ﬂowing with Raj
nostalgia, while satellite ’I‘.V. is the representative of

Indian civilization, while, in the words of Mr. Ranj it
Hoskote, ‘Rupert Murdoch's products are actually
more appropriate to a generation shaped by a

decade of market-oriented social, cultural and economic policies”, perhaps it is a good time to recall
the ' struggle of our ancestors in the face of the grim
British legal onslaught in the shape of the Dramatic
Performances Act, the Vernacular Press Act, the
Rowlatt Act etc. , which gradually attempted to
destroy our national Indian culture.

exercises questioning ourselves and our contradictions and what English speaking does to us. While
our play cannot yet say that we are dealing with
colonialism, we feel that we are making a beginning.
Several people feel we are showing only black and
white. I believe passionately and strongly that the
time has come to state in black and white—forjust
as we are recovering from two hundred years of
colonialism, yet another onslaught has begun, dis—
rupting our entire identity and depriving our people

of their self:respect and independence.

Again in the words of Hoskote, “Channel switching
While today we are silent, voices of the past come
echoing to us as we recall the banned plays of the
1870’s, now in the 19903. For Rati, the Dramatic
Performances'Act has been a subject of great pain
and anger, and she has researched and collected a
lot of material around it. We started looking at the
material together last December. It is really shocking to find an alien legal system enforced upon a
people to this day, which not only judges and
defines culture, but has the right, at any moment,
to destroy it.
Since Sumanta has been doing research on the
nineteenth century, we asked him to write the
scenes, and this became his first attempt at play
writing. And, from mere documentary material,
started emerging the scenes of the ‘rehearsal’, the
‘trial’ and ‘legal proceedings’. In addition to this, we
had collected a whole series ofletters, some ofwhich
we present in letter-form or snippets of Raj nostalgia. So we have three intertwining themes: the legal
proceedings, Raj nostalgia and the banned plays
and songs; and we end with the prevalent market
culture—ads, MTV, satellite channels and soap
operas.
The next phase was to make this palpable to the
players and to us. What is colonialism? How does it
affect us in our daily existence? What are power
structures? What does a legal system do? What are
the strategies ofwar? How does the media reﬂect the
split of the colonised mind? We spoke and evolved

has become much more than a ritual of tedium. It is
a philosophy of life; you no longer bother to finish
a story, start again, ﬂip, start again. You carry
neither guilt nor nostalgia nor hope from frame to
frame, but remain aﬂoat in the present continuous," which is how we are trying to end our play; the
terrible inertia of the mind brought on by this
cultural recolonisation. We are also playing with the
image of “Black & White,” to begin examining the
effects of colonisation on our Indian psyche.
’I‘he NSD students of the batch of ’94 have contributed greatly through their suggestions, improvisations and contributions to the text. We are proud to
offer this collaborative work which was evolved,
written and structured in two months and was first
performed by the NSD batch of ’94 as their final
student production—the first step in examining
some ofthe struggles ofthe past and understanding
our present cultural vacuum. I hope this production helps us to keep our spirit of courage and fight
alive.
-Anamika Haksar

