THE 1870’s

The last three decades of the 19th century—which
form the background of this play—were a turning
point in India's political and cultural history, and
some of the characters and events depicted here,
played a major role in that history.
.

in 1860, but staged for the first time in 1872 in
Calcutta) which described the plight and protest of
Bengali peasantsforced to cultivate indigo by British
planters, and Dakshinacharan Chattopadhyaya’s
‘Cha-karDarpan' (published in 1874) which narrated
the woes of Indian labourers forcibly recruited to

After almost a century ofWestern education, and the
work in the tea-gardens by British planters, were
consequent initiation into the political doctrines of major cultural interventions in the fledgling
liberty and democracy, the educated Indians during nationalist discourse that marked the 1870 in
this period began to assert in a more articulate and
Bengal. By incorporating and re-enacting some of
organised manner, their demands for a distinct
the scenes from these two plays, the present play
voice in political decision-making, agreater share in
harks back to the formative years ofthe an ti-colonial
administrative and judicial services, and demotradition of the Indian intelligentsia. In 1875, when
cratic rights like freedom of speech and movement.
the Great National Theatre of Calcutta went with its
This often brought them into conﬂict with the
troupe to Lucknow and staged ‘Neeldarpan’ there, it
colonial administrators, whose self—righteous claims
provoked the British soldiers among the audience to
of ‘civilizing’ the Indians boomeranged on the Brit—
invade the stage and stop the performance—a
ish in the shape of public agitations by the same
historical incidentwhich has been woven in to today’s
‘natives’ whom they had ‘civilized‘. Addressing their
play. Lucknow, which was the centre of the 1857
British mentors, who moulded them into ‘babus' on
rebellion, was still regarded by the colonial
the Macaulay model through a meticulous training
administration and itsmilitaryrninions asa potential
process (encapsulated in a scene in this play), one
source of anti-colonial sentiments, which they
contemporary Indian editor asked : “Why did you not
feared—even after 18 years—could be stirred up by
tell us before that the more we learn, the less shall
a play like ‘Neeldarpan‘.
we be liked by you?... Was that a hoax? Must we
forever remain enchained, crushed, trodden, igno- Tensions between the rising nationalistic urges on
rant. superstitious, to satisfy your love of power? the one hand and British colonial resistance on the
And you emancipated millions of slaves and you other, reached a peak in Bengali middle class society
boast of your civilization and Christianity (Arnrita at the end of 1875, with the arrival of Prince Ed?
Bazar Patrika, February 24, 1870). This was the ward—Queen Victoria’s son—who was known as
voice of emerging nationalism among the educated the ‘Royal Playboy’, in Calcutta in December that
Indian middle classes. The writer was 30 year old year. Even before his arrival, Indian newspapers
Shishir Kumar Ghosh, who appears in the court- complained about the wastage of money on his
room scene of this play, to oppose the Vernacular reception, and extortion of subscription from cornPress Act, which was enacted by the British admin- mon citizens—particularly at a time when Bengt
istration in 1878 to muzzle the Indian regional was yet to recover from a severe famine that devaslanguage press.
tated the countryside in 1874-75. While the sumpA sharper perception of the history of colonial tuous reception thrown for him by a sycophant
exploitation ofthe country's economy and its people Bengali advocate—Jagadananda Mukherjee—anduring the previous one hundred odd years (which gered Calcutta’s Bengali society, Edwards carousal
was being conceptualized then, to be published with an English actress Lizzie Mathews, (who haplaterby the firstgeneration ofnati onalist economists pened to be in Calcutta at that time to act in a play
like Dadabhai Naoroj i in his ‘Poverty and Uri-British called ‘My Awful Dad’) embarrassed the British
Rule in India’) , led the radicals among these educated officials. The Bengalis retaliated by lampooning
Indians to protest against administrative high- Edward's reception and exploits, which led to a
handedness, and occasionally—to express sympathy number of developments cu lminating in the enactfor the struggles of the downtrodden and oppressed ment of the Dramatic Performances Act of 1876.
peasantry. Dinabandhu Mitra’s ‘Neeldarpan’ (written These historical events form the pivot around which
the present play develops.

