/
As the nationalist mood escalated. the British ad- of dissident intellectuals like Prannath Pundit (who
ministrators responded with a series of repressive campaigned against" the Dramatic Performances Act
laws. The Dramatic Performances Act was followed through the pages of the then well-known Mookerjee's
by the Vernacular Press Act of 1878 (to censor Magazine); Shishir Kumar Ghosh, the editor of ‘Amrita
writings in regional language papers), the Arms Act Bazar Patrika’ ; Upendra Nath Das , a radical nationalist
of 1879 (forbidding Indians to carry weapons), the (who dramatized an actual incident of a British
Seditious Meetings Act of 1907, the Criminal Code magistrate’s attempt to rape a Bengali woman, and the
Amendment, Defence of India Act of 1913, and thrashing that he received at the hands of her
finally—the draconian Rowlatt Act of 1919. During neighbour—in the play ‘Surendra-Binodini', which
all this period, the stage—whether in Bengal, became a red rag to John Bulli); and the two eminent
Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh; or other parts of stage personalities of those days—Amritalal Basu and
India—emerged as a powerful platform for voicing Ardhendu Shekhar Mustafi—whose amazing capacity
the anti—colonial sentiments of the people. Histori— to spin one farce after another every now and then to
cal and mythological plays were staged with thinly mock the British rulers and their Indian toadies,
veiled allusions to British oppression and popular infuriated the colonial administrators. For example, in
resistance. In June, 1906, Bal Gangadhar Tilak answer to Dave Carson’s ‘Bengali Babu ka Pakka
visited Calcutta, and watched the play Tamasha' Mustafi created the immensely popular
‘Sirajaddaulah', where the famous actor Girish ‘Mustafi sahib ka Pakka Tamasha' lampooning the
Ghosh in the role of the hero, was reported to have British, doading them finally to arrest them . All through
delivered a patriotic speech that drew Tilak's ap- these crucial stages, in the history of the Bengali
plause. The play was banned a few years later. In theatre, there was a band of dedicated actresses who
fact, the ban on the plays produced by the Great courageously stood by their male comrades. One of
National Theatre in February-March, 1876 (referred them was Golap—a young girl brought to the Bengali
to in the present play) was a prelude to a long history stage from a red-light area, to act in the play
of suppression of dissent in the theatre that spilled ‘Shormishta’ (by the famous poet Michael Madhusudan
over to the post-Independence era.
butt) in 1873, who rose to become one of the best
actresses, got married to a Bengali middle class actorSome of the main characters who played a key role in
colleague of hers, and was renamed as Sukumari
these tumultuous deve10pments appear in the present
play. There is the Governor-General, Lord Northbrooke Datta. All these personalities appear in different scenes
in tonight's play.

(during whose regime the Dramatic Performances Act
was drafted); the two Lieutenant Governors ofBengal—
Sir Richard Temple and Sir Ashley Eden (the latter
introduced the notorious Vernacular Press Act); the

The colonial administration was prescient enough to
apprehend the threat posed by these plays that were
being staged in Calcutta in the 1870s. Defending the

Law Member, Mr. Hobhouse; the two police bosses—

Dramatic Performances Act, the Lieutenant Governor

the commissioner Stuart Hogg, and the Superintendent, Lamb (who were lampooned in the farce The
Police of Pig and Sheep'). We are also entertained by
Dave Carson, the British actor who in those days used
to amuse the city’s European audience with songs that

emerging to challenge the authority of colonial legisla-

of Bengal, Sir Richard Temple warned that younger
members of the audience of these plays could get
inﬂuenced by their anti-British message, and that this
impact could spread to other parts of India and lead to
a larger political reaction. He was not wrong in predicting the long-term impact of the anti-colonial and
nationalist plays. But the recipe which he suggested——
the Dramatic Performances Act—failed to prevent the
younger generation at the turn of the 20th, century all
over India, to launch a variety of poll tical struggles that
led to the ultimate retreat of the administrative succes-

tions and the hegemony of colonial cultural values.

sors of the Northbrookes and the Richard Temples.

made fun of the Bengali ‘babu’, on the boards of the
Opera House in Calcutta. While these characters
dominated the British political and social scene in
Calcutta in the 1870-80 period, in contemporary
Bengali society, a new generation of intellectuals was

Repressive laws like the Dramatic Performances Act

Sumanta Banerjee
and the Vernacular Press Act, brought together a band

