ON THE DRAMATIC PERFORMANCES ACT

/\ CENSORSHIP ON THEATRE

The ironical fact may not be known to many, that the
Dramatic Performances Act (DPA) which was enacted
by a colonial power in 1876 to stem a growing
conscious theatre, is still operative in our country,
and has been invoked time and again to attack
theatre. In a brief resume, I would like to bring to

mind the circumstances which made the Raj feel so
insecure as to take such steps, along with a few
significant instances of how the Act has operated
since 1947.
In fact, the DPA of 1876 was part ofa whole package
ofrepressive laws passed by the British rulers in the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries, particularly
after the 1857 revolt, to suppress and contain
growing nationalist consciousness.

In Bengal in the second half of 19th Century, plays
on nationalist themes (allegorical, historical or based
on mythology) like Bharat Vilap, Puru Vikram,
Sarojini Natak were highly popular. The first
contemporary issue-based play was Dinabandhu
Mitra'sNeeldarpan dealingwith the Indigo planters’
oppression on peasants (1860). It was staged in
Dhaka first, later in Calcutta in 1872. Michael
Madhusudan Dutt’s translation into English
published under Rev. Long's name and copies sent
to England, created a furore among the Indigo
planters, who brought a case against Long. He was
sentenced to one month’s simple imprisonment and
a fine ofRs. 1000.

The interest of the administration was aroused
further when in mid- 1875, Lord Northbrooke, the

Governor-General 'of India, read a translation in a
newspaper ofDakshina Chatter] e e’s Cha-kar Darpan
(on the plight of tea-plantatiOn workers in Assam)
and consulted the Advocate General regarding any
existing law which could prosecute the author and
prevent performance of the play. No criminal law
was found totally adequate and a separate bill was
proposed by the law member, Hobhouse.
In a Minute of June 13, 1876, Sir Richard Temple,

Lt. Governor or Bengal cited instances offour plays:
The Mirror of Indigo (Neeldarpan). The Mirror ofTea
(Cha—kar Darpan). The Trial of Gaekwad,
‘Gajadananda and the Prince’ and remarked: “It is
remarkable that in all these instances ... not only is
there libel against individuals or classes, but what
is even more important, a design to excite ill-feeling
against the British name and nation, against the
tendency ofBritish civilization and institutions and
against the result of British rule”!

Gaekwad Natak centred round the alleged poisoning
of the British Resident Col. Phayre by Malhar Rao
who was subsequently deposed after a mockery of
atrial. In fact, the incident gave birth to another play
too ‘Hirak Churna Natak by Arnritlal Basu, the

Great National Theatre’, Gajadanand was a farcical
offering on the visit of Prince Edward to the inner
chambers of a noted Bengali advocate and member
of the Legislative Council Jagadananda Mookerjee.
The incident drew plenty of reactions from
newspapers, writers and middle class circles.
Hemachandra’s Bajimat—a long poem inspired the
idea of the play. The Great National Theatre
established in 1873 staged most of these plays and
a bunch of well-known actors were in the forefront.
What is significant is the fact that all these plays
were based on real contemporary incidents.
Moreover, the first two, were critical of the
Englishman and his commercial interests, the latter
graduated to being critical of British rule and
institutions.

The police intervened at two shows of Ga] adanand
and the Prince‘. Immediately an Ordinance was
promulgated on 29th February 1876 in Bengal for
a period of three months, empowering the Lt.
Governor . . to prohibit by order dramatic
performances which are scandalous, defamatory,
seditious and obscene or otherwise prejudicial to
the public interest." The final straw was the flouting
of the Ordinance the very next day with the
performance of a seditious play Surendra Binodini
Natak by Upendranath Das, followed by a farce The
‘Police of Pig and Sheep’ Iampooning Stuart Hogg
the Commissioner and Lamb the Superintendent of
Police, devised by the actors Mustafi, Amritlal and
others. Not only did the main play have scenes of
prisoners‘ revolt, the protagonists defiance of the
English Magistrate, but also ofan attempted rape of
a woman by the latter. The author, manager and
actors of the Great National Theatre were arrested
and the play banned on grounds of obscenity. The
judges in an appeal case, dismissed the charges and
released the arrested on March 20, 1876. This
certainly hastened the process and the bill became
a reality on December 16 as the Dramatic
Performances Act (19) of 1876. Total power vested

with the executive authorities, so that a charge of
sedition or obscenity could be clapped without any

opportunity for a hearing.
Not that some kind of democratic norms were
not

observed. Not only were each provincial head

