gig.
consulted and their opinions sought, the proposed
bill was circulated among the public too. The
Secretary of British India Association Jatindra
Mohan Thakur, Prannath Pundit, Shishir Kumar
Ghosh wrote extensively, meetings were held in
different cities, newspapers in Bombay, Lucknow,
Allahabad, Kanpur, Calcutta. Dhaka protested—
but to no avail. Even minor amendments suggested
by the provincial heads were not considered.
Compare the Ordinance and the Act—one would
find very little difference in the provisions. The latter
of course applies to the whole of British India and
Burma. The last clause, exempting religious plays
was added.
A growing serious political theatre was axed
overnight. Not that brave political theatre not
continue being staged at the cost of being banned,
as would be evident from only a few of the extracts
we have been able to include in our play. But
certainly the move was toward ‘safer' plays—
devotional or entertaining. In GP. Deshpande’s
words, gradually the fear of censorship gained
certain legitirnisation. More over, the idea of
censorship has been so internalised, that less and
less risks have been taken.
It will have been assumed that after Independence,

many of the oppressive laws created by the British
to protect their Raj would be abolished. The D.P.A.
was created to suppress “a growing national stage
and its political repertoire” in Dr. R.K. Das Gupta’s
words. Despite the provisions of the fundamental
rights ofa citizen, this “fearful engine of oppression"
continues to this day. Except for changing the term
‘Provincial’ to ‘State', the D .P.A. continued as it was
till about the mid-fifties. Thereafter, the majority of
States repealed the central act and introduced
various State D. PA. 5 with some amendments largely
within the original framework. What was ominously
significant however was that the hand of the police
was strengthened as in the Bombay D.P.A. of 1950.
Gradually the police have been given the executive
power which earlier had vested with the magistrate.

Shortly after Independence, in 1949, the D.P.A. of
1876 was heavily used against the IPTA and the
PWA. The following circular to District and Police
Authorities in West Bengal shows the trend: “It is
likely that some organisations, such as the All India
Peoples’ Theatre Association and the All India
Progressive Writers' Association with communist
affiliations and leanings may be organising public
dramatic performances, songs, etc . . . any attempt . . .

made by them ... should be stopped by the District
Magistrates as far as possible by the use of the
Dramatic Performances Act 1876.... No previous

reference need be made to the ProvinCial
Government. . . .”
In 1953 theTravancore-Cochin (Kerala) Government
banned ‘You made me Comrnunist’. In a high court
appeal the District Magistrate’s ban order was
declared “void”. In another case the same year, a
notice was served on the Secretary of the West
Bengal branch of IPTA by the Calcutta Police
Commissioner which stated that “in accordance
with the provisions laid down under Section 7 ofthe
D PA. 1876”, the Secretary was supposed to submit
manuscripts of 54 plays, some of which were not
even produced by IPTA! But IPI‘A was wamed that
“non-submission will result in legal action under
Section 176 of the IPC”. Curiously the list included
Neeldarpan (1860)! Also included in the list was
Bijan Bhattacharya’s Nabanna— on the Bengal
famine. first staged by IPI‘A in 1944 and not banned
at the time!
In the same year, four members of IPTA. Razia Sajj ad
Zaheer, Amritlal Nagar, Babulal Verma and Gokul
Chand Rastogi were prosecuted for staging
Premchand’s Idgah at Lucknow. This play became
the occasion for the historic Allahabad judgement
of 1956. Against the prosecution’s arguments
invoking Section 3 of DPA 1876, Justices Chaturvedi
and Mullah. declared: “Merely because a person
preaches or advocates by staging a play, a political
ideology different from the ideology of party in
power, a prohibitory order under Section 3 is
unjustified. . . : ." More important is their conclusion
that “. . . the Dramatic Performances Act. in the
absence of a reasonable procedure to enforce its
substantive provisions is Ultra Vires of the
Constitution, since in its operation it places
unreasonable restrictions on the rights of citizens
guaranteed under Article 1 9 of the Constitution. . . ."

However, soon after, most of the State acts came
into existence and the banning of plays continued.
In Madras, in the fifties and sixties pro-DK and DMK
plays like ‘Keemaynam’, ‘Kahita Poo’ (Paper F‘lower) ,
and ‘Por Val’ (Battle Sword) were axed. When the
DMK came into power in 1967, anti—DMK plays were
banned. None of the plays, though popular, were of
great quality. But that is beside the point. More
recently, in Kerala in 1987. Antony’s ”The Sixth.
Sacred Wound of Christ‘ was banned ' under the

