/ हूँ]':,
\

J

A

to south Calcutta, where party-workers protected
the performance. Theatre people from all over

Kerala DPA 1962 and rNathugaddiga‘ (Glory of the
Country) earlier in 1978.
A few minor attempts at getting the Act repealed
have been made. In 1972, Habib 'I‘anvir as member
of the Rajya Sabha introduced a private member’s
bill to repeal the DPA which never came up for
debate during his term. The March group in Delhi
took u p the struggle against Entertainment Tax and
the DPA in 1974. Madhu Limaye, joining the fray.
suggested an .amended Act, on the plea that total
abolition would not be acceptable to the Government.
Predictably nothing happened.
Though there has been the possibility ofjudicial
recourse, IPI‘A, from the early fifties, rightly urged
concerted action by theatre workers for immediate
withdrawal of the Act. Only in West Bengal, did the
struggle take proper shape. The united protest by
theatre workers and artists forced the state
government to drop the proposed state bill in 196263 . Consequently, there is no Dramatic Performances
Act in West Bengal.

Bengal protested against the government's action
and finally the case was dropped. Earlier in 1966 the
DIR was brought against Utpal Du tt's Kallol, which
dealt with the rebellion ofIndian ratings ofthe Royal
Indian Navy in 1946! He was imprisoned for six
months. Despite threats to actors, threats ofclosu re ,
and boycott by the advertising section ofpapers, the

play continued to run to full houses due to strong
protests from theatre workers and sympathisers.
In the three cities ofBombay, Madras and Delhi , the
police have now been made guardians of culture
The implementation of the DPA is in their hands.
Gin’sh Ghosh, the great actor and playwright had
remarked almost a hundred years ago:
“Why don’t you see what great misfortune has fallen
on this country, that the critic and judge of theatre
is the police! But there’s no protest from literary
circles. Character, dialogue and scenes have to be
changed according to the instructions ofthe police!"

However, this has not precluded the State using
other laws still in existence. One such is Section
124A of the Indian Penal Code 1860. In 1974, the
sedition charge under 124A was brought against
Utpal Du tt’s ‘Dushwapane r Nagari' (Nightmare City)
which dealt with police atrocities in Calcutta. The
play Was shifted from its original venue in the north

And again: “Who brought the stage low by pushing
out serious drama and replacing it with light society
sketch and pantomime, fooling the spectators with
silly songs and dances? Its climax is half-nude
dancing. Those who are responsible for this ugly
corruption of Histrionic Art, will one day repent."
Rati Bartholomew

r

1 एँ

O u to a an o u o O v ८ (i) M I! O t १

घणा शांड्डोंछ‘ दाणा' ( A CANNON To KILL

A

