THE DRAMATIC PERFORMANCES

ACT (19) OF‘ 1876

An act for the better control of public dramatic
performances (December 16, 1876)

merit for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine, or with both.

Preamble : Whereas it is expedient to empower the
Government to prohibit public dramatic performances which are scandalous, defamatory, seditious or obscene: it is hereby enacted as follows:

. Power to Notify Order : Any such order may be
notified by proclamation, and a written or printed
notice thereof may be stuck up at any place or
places adopted for giving information of the
order to the persons intending to take part in or
witness the performance so prohibited.

I . Short Title : This Act may be called the Dramatic
Performances Act, 1876.
Local Extent : It extends to the whole of India

except Part ‘8' States.
“Magistrate” Deﬁned : In this Act “Magistrate”
means in the presidency towns, a Magistrate of
Police, and elsewhere the Magistrate of the Distri ct .

. Power topr'ohibit Certain Dramatic Performances :
Whenever the provincial Government is of opinion that any play, pantomime or other drama
performed or about to be performed in a Public
place is

(a) of a scandalous or defamatory nature, or
(b) likely to excite feelings of disaffection to the
Government established by law in British
India or British Burma, or
(c) likely to deprave and corrupt persons present
at the performance, the provincial Government, or outside the presidency towns and
Rangoon, the Provincial G overnrnent or such
Magistrate as it may empower in this behalf,
may by order prohibit the performance.
Explanation : Any building or enclosure to which
the public are admitted to witness a performance on
payment of money shall be deemed a “Public Place”
within the meaning of the Section.
4. Power to Serve Order of Prohibiton—Penalty for
Disobeying Order : A copy of any such order may
be served on any person about to take part in the
performance so prohibited, or on the owner or
occupier of any house, room or place in which
such performance is intended to take place : and
any person on whom such copy is served, and
who does, orwillingly permits, any act in disobe—
dience to such order, shall be punished on
conviction before a magistrate with imprison-

. Penalty for Disobeying Prohibition : Whomever
after the notification of any such order
(a) takes part in the performance prohibited
thereby or in any performance substantially
the same as the performance so prohibited,
or
(b) in any manner assists in conducting any

such performance, or
(c) is, in wilful disobedience to such order,
present as a spectator during the whole or

any part of any such performance, or
((1) being the owner or occupier, or having the

use of any house, room or place, opens, and
keeps or uses the same for any such performance, or permits the same to be opened,
kept or used for any su ch performance, shall
be punishable on conviction before a Magistrate with imprisonment for a term which

may extend to three months, or with fine, or
with both.
7. Power to Callfor Information : For the purpose of
ascertaining the character of any intended public dramatic performance, the Provincial Gov-

ernment, or such officer as it: may specially
empower in this behalf, may apply to the author,
proprietor, printer of the drama about to be
performed, or to the owner or occupier of the
place in which it is intended to be performed , for
such information as the Provincial Government
or such officer thinks necessary. Every person so
applied to shall be bound to furnish the same to
the best of his ability, and whoever contravenes
this section shall be deemed to have committed
an offence under Section 1 76 of the Indian Penal
Code (IPC).
8. Power to Grant Warrant to Police to Enter and

