K
Arrest and Seize : If any magistrate has reason to
believe that any house, room or place is used or
is about to be used, for any performance prohibited under this Act, he may, by his warrant,
authorise any officer ofPolice to enter with such
assistance as may be requisite, by night or by
day, and by force, if necessary, any such house,
room or place, and to take into custody all
persons whom he finds therein, and to seize all
scenery, dresses and other articles found therein
and reasonably suspected to have been used, or
to be intended to be used, for the purpose ofsuch
performance.

take place in any place of public entertainment
within such area except under a licence to be
granted by such Provincial Government or such

officer as it may specially empower in this behalf
The Provincial Government may also order that
no dramatic performance shall take place in any
place of public entertainment within such area,
unless a copy of the piece, if and so far it is
written, or some sufficient account of its purport, and so far it is pantomime, has been
furnished, not less than three days before the
performance, to the Provincial Government or to

such officer as it may appoint in this behalf.
9. Saving of Prosecutions under Penal Code, Sec—
tions 124A and 294 : No conviction under this,
Act shall bar a prosecution under Sec. 124A or
Section 294 of the Indian Penal Code.

A copy of any order under this section may be

served On any keeper of a place of public entertainment; and if thereafter he does, or willingly
permits, any act of disobedience to such order,

10.Power to Prohibit Dramatic Performance in any
he shall be punishable on conviction before a
Local Area, Except under Licence : Whenever it
appears to the Provincial Government that the

provisions of this section are required in any
local area it may, with the sanction of the Governor-General in Council, declare by notification

in the official gazette, that such provisions are
applied to such area from a day to be fixed in the
notification.
On after that day, the Provincial Government

may order. that no dramatic performance shall

if '
दे

Magistrate with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three months or with fine, or with
both.
11.Power Exercisable by Governor-General : (Re—
pealed by AD. 1937)
1 2. Exclusion ofPerformances atReligious Festivals:
Nothing in this Act applies to any jatras or
performances ofa like kind at relid1ou s festivals.

