TRANSLATOR

‘

RESEARCHER & ASST. DIRECTOR

J .N. KAUSHAL

RATI BARTHOLOMEW

Born on 4th February, 1936; is one such theatre
person who has achieved excellence at various
levels in this art. He is a past graduate and presently
Associate Professor of National School of Drama.
His translations and adaptations of not only the
Greek tragedies but many old and new classics have
earned him a name as they are as authentic in
translation or adaptation as the originals. An Assistant Editor of ENACT, the theatre magazine, and a
theatre journalist who has written extensively in
various newspapers andjournals. he has developed
a balanced view of the contemporary theatre scene.
He has written original plays, conducted workshops in various parts of the country. directed and
designed plays and was Acting Chief of the NSD
Repertory Company for over 2 years.

Lecturer in English at Indraprastha college and
Delhi University. Among the various plays she
directed while working with students were: ‘The
House of Bernarda Alba’, ‘Antigone‘, ”l‘asher Desh’,
Jakov Lind’s ‘F‘ear’ and ’I‘ripurari‘s ‘Bahu'.
Afounder member onatrik and latervice-president
of Dishantar she directed ‘Blood Wedding' for the
former and Mohan Rakesh’s short plays for the
latter.
Since the 80's has worked only on evolved plays—two
notable ones being 'I‘ripurari’s ‘Aks Paheli’ and ‘Kath
Ki Gadi’— the latter with NSD Rep. Since then has
been taking workshops and evolving plays with
women's groups, particularly in Hirnachal Pradesh
and in Delhi and with children here and in Kerala.
She has been very active in street theatre being part

J.N. Kaushal is the Vice-President of the Bharatiya

of a collective—Theatre Union and has been work-

Natya Sangh. He has attended international con-

ing extendedly in Bangladesh since ‘83 with ‘Nij era
Kori' an organisation which works with villagers. In
1990, she directed Shahid Nadirn's ‘Jhalli Kitthe
Javey‘ for Ajoka in Lahore.
She has written extensively on theatre and has cotranslated two of Badal sircar's plays into Hindi.

ferences and seminars in various countries and
is the Indian member of the Theatre Education
Committee of the International Theatre Institute,

Paris. Presently, he is looking after the Repertory
Company.

