NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

दुड्डि

REPERTORY COMPANY

The Repertory Company of the National School of Drama
was formed on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi,
who played a major role in nurturing and expanding the
Company when he was Director of the School (1962-77).

In December—January 1992-93 , the Repertory commemorated Mohan Rakesh, the celebrated playwright. twenty
years after his demise. The Repertory organised a major
festival of all his plays and dramatic adaptations of his

In the beginning, the Company consisted of only four

short stories. It was a signiﬁcant, major event in theatre.
In December 1993, the Repertory participated in the

actors. It later expanded into a larger group of actors,
musicians and technicians, mainly graduates of the

School. Initially, in 1964, the late Om Shivpuri led the
Company and later in 1977 Shri Manohar Singh was
appointed the ﬁrst Chief of the Company. Over the years

Vishwa Hindi Sam melan at Mauritius with performances

of three of Mohan Rakesh’s plays: Aashad Ka Ek Din,
Aadhe-Adhure and Lehron Ke Rajhans. ३
In 1994 the Company started a new activity—presenta-

the Repertory has produced a variety of plays ranging

tion of fringe performances consisting of dramatic read दृ
from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works of
Indian drama to translations and adaptations of foreign
language plays.
Eminent directors from within the country and abroad
have worked with the Company in the past years.
Apart from performing in Delhi, the Company tours
extensively all over India and has also made successful
trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, and Mauritius.
As part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations the Company

ings of world classics as well as new plays, enactment of
poetry and other experiments in the form, content and
presentation of theatre.
J.N. Kaushal
A.C. Gandhi
Yeshwant Nikose
S.N. Dasgupta
Om Prakash
Gursharan Kaur
Abdul Hakim
O.P. Sagar
Ramesh Athwal. S.R. Yadav.

Acting Chief Repertory Company
Business Manager
Stage Manager
Sound Technician
Music In-charge
Wardrobe ln-Charge

toured extensively and organised the Rang Yatra Theatre
Festival in 1991. It also put. up a special exhibition, Ranga

Workshop In-Charge

Yatra, designed by Shri Bansi Kaul. The work of the

Accounts
Box Ofﬁce

National School of Drama Repertory Company since its
inception is depicted through photographs, models,
jewellery, costumes, etc. in this exhibition. It has been on
view in Delhi and has travelled to Bombay, Pune, Goa and
Bangalore as well.

PA to Chief

Director of National School of Drama

Tika Ram Bhatt
C.D. Tewari

Kirti Jain

