Sanskaar Rang Toli
7'

“he Theatre—inIEducation Company (Sanskaar
Rang Toli) of the National School of Drama
was established on October 16, 1989, and is

one of the most important educational resource
centres in the country.
Performances for Children:

The TIE Co. consists of a group of actor—teachers
working with and performing for children. The major
focus of the Company is to perform creative,
curriculum—based and participatory plays in schools.
These are designed especially for children of different
age groups, with the aim of creating awareness and
encouraging them to raise questions, take decisions
and adopt theatrical skills as an alternative to

establish and apply theatre with their pupils
meaningfully. It offers skills and techniques for
effective and enjoyable teachingrlearning activities in
classroom situations aimed at building a common
understanding about the role of drama in the overall
development of a child. The Toli has conducted
workshops with NCERT on a pilot project based on
“Theatre Moment at Primary Level”. Apart from
working with school teachers in Delhi, it has also
worked with teachers from different states of India
like Tripura, Maharashtra, Uttar l’radesh, Rajasthan,

Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and
Assam. The TIE Company has also prepared drama
syllabi for various classes on the request ofNCERT.

mainstream options.

Workshops and Festival Tours:

It has staged more than 1200 performances of 33
plays in Delhi and other parts of the country. More

Workshops for colleges, parents, social organizations
and children with special needs are also among the
Toli's important activities. It organizes theatre festivals
and has undertaken extensive tours in collaboration
with various departments and institutions such as the

than 11 lakh children, apart from college students,
teachers, parents and theatre lovers, have witnessed

these plays.
Summer Theatre Workshop:
The summer theatre workshop for children is
organized by the Toli during the summer vacation
every year. Besides training in theatre and the allied
arts, personality development and integration are
important aspects of this workshop. It aims at the
social integration of children from various
backgrounds and tries to sensitize them towards their
surroundings through theatre activities in a play—way
method. This annual feature started with one centre
at NSD and has now expanded to 8 centres located at
various schools of Delhi. 16 to 24 groups of students
between 8 to 16 years of age are admitted every year.
Each group consists of 30 children. Parents are also
invited to share in the workshop process. Each year
the demand for opening new centres is increasing,
and more than 600 children participate in the
workshops across different Delhi centres annually.

Max Muller Bhawan (Delhi), Padatik (Kolkata),
Department of Culture (UR), Voice Box (U.K.),

Language Alive (U.K.), Samadhan (NGO, Delhi),
Japan Foundation, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Sarniti,
Jawahar Navodya Vidyalaya Samiti, Bawana Women's
College, Jesus and Mary College (Delhi), Aaroh
(Delhi) and Srimanta Shankaradeva Kalakshetra
Society (Guwahati); and has also conducted a theatre
workshop for teachers at Muscat (Oman), etc.

The Toli has participated in the International Theatre
Festival at Warsaw (Poland), the International
Symposium on Actor's Training Theatre Showcase
at
Beijing (China), Manila (Philippines), and has also
performed in an International Theatre Festival
at
Shinzouka (japan).
Jashnebachpan:

The Toli organized its first ever 'Nationa
l Theatre
Festival for Children', titled “Jashnebachp
an” from

Sunday Club — Part I:

November 10—19, 1998. This festi
val, which invites

This is an extension programme of the Summer
Theatre Workshop, in which children work to devise
original performances through a process
of

plays by and for children from different
parts of the
country, is now one of its regular biennial
features.
Bal Sangam:

improvisation.

Sunday Club — Part II:
This is a step further towards developing children's
understanding of theatre as an art form.
Teachers Workshop:

The Toli offers workshops for teachers to help them

With the start of the new mill
ennium, the Toli

started a new biennial event call
ed “Bal Sangam".
This is a festival with a focus on
Indian performing
folk and traditional arts pres
ented by children
practicmg these arts, from diff
erent regions of the
country.

