Bhau sings and recites about their dilemma.
They have a duty to see he
is cremated, which they can't fulfil.
In the meantime, they start playing
a game in which each side sings a hymn deginning with the last letter of
the other side's previous hymn.
Suddenly the man on the stairs descends joyfully.

Nana has arrived.

They

all start singing the news.
Nana enters and they rush to comfort him.

Puzzled, he avoids them, skipping

away lightly as if still palying the game in which he had gone away to compete.
Nana meets his mother.

Bhau pleads to be cremated soon.

The funeral

procession now begins. When they reach the cremation-ground there is a lock
and a board on the gate saying that it is closed. There is a buzz of enquiry.
The municipal

notice says that no bodies must

be burnt

there any more,

as the site has been reallocated for a new building.
The mourners tell Nana to wait and they all go away, saying they are fetching
a barrow to wheel away the body to the new cremation-ground outside the town.
Nana, to his surprise, hears Bhau coughing and finds that he can talk. Bhau
refuses to go and be burnt at the new cremation-ground.
He wants the
old familiar one.
Nana tries to force him to come but he is too heavy;
in despair he asks that, if nothing else, at least the curtain should be dropped
for the end of Act One.

ACT

TW O

The lights go up and one by one we see Nana, his father and his mother.
His father is still uncremated; his mother dishevelled, in mourning, but yet,
lovelier than before.

Bhaurao speaks.

It is ten days since his death and his wife hasn't stopped

crying. It is the day to get up and prepare the ritual offering of food to
the dead. At the thought, she cries even more.
Nana now speaks of the ritual responsibilities he has.
At last, Rama rises
and begins to prepare the offering for Nana to take to the cremation—ground.

The scene now shift to the cremation-ground.
Two grown men, dressed
as children, are there having a ridiculous quarrel.
Both their fathers have
died and they have come to make offerings of food. One of them has put
his plate too close to the ohter's. The point is that the rnourner can't leave
and go home until a crow from the cremation-ground eats from the plate
he has brought (the crow is supposed to be the soul of the departed). The
two men/children argue about who has priority; meanwhile neither plate
is being touched by the crows.

As they fight, Nana enters and listens. After a while he leaves and re-enters
as the Crow and talks of the problems crow face at the cremation—ground.
The boys try to bully the crow into tasting the offerings.
but finally agrees.

He resists them

Bhau now enters asking for his offering and the boys run away terrified.
Nana and Bhaurao talk.

It emerges that Bhau has still not been cremated.

He is hiding in a dark attic at their house.

Nana asks why he has come

to the new cremation—ground when he has refused to be cremated in it.
Nana urges Bhau to be cremated
He is there, of course, for the offering.

but Bhau talks of the glories of the old cremation ground.
about visiting his mother, Rama.

Nana warns Bhau

But they soon find themselves at his home,

where Nana leaves his parents alone and an affectionate dialogue ensues.
Suddenly, Bhau realises that Rama is not addressing him but someone totally
different, whom she sees as a man in ‘a suit—wearing dark glasses. Rama
screams at

seeing Bhau who disappears.

Nana enters and Rama discusses

