Ranga Sri Little Ballet Troupe
The Little Ballet Troupe was founded in January, 1952 under the guidance of Shanti Bardhan
in M um ba i . The formation as well as the name owed not a little to the freshness of vision and
the bold spirit of experimentation, which had characterized Shanti Bardhan’s work even in
the earlier organizations to which he had belonged. It was shared in good measure by his
colleagues. They realized truly that ballet, if it was take its proper place in the life of the
people, would have to draw inspiration predominantly from folk traditions instead of classical
traditions instead of being cast, as heretofore, around an individual star performer trained in
one or other of India's several classical traditions. The adjective ‘Little' in the title of the
troupe referred neither to littleness of conception nor of artistic aim, but rather to a new and,
in the prevailing atmosphere, a radical spirit of approach to ballet, which was visualized as a
symbol of the highest degree of coordination and integration for collective artistic purpose.
Also it recognized that the Indian tradition of folk drama and the contemporary state of
theatre in India, both demanded that mere extravagance of showrnanship should be replaced
economy characteristic of all true expression of creative genius.
The band of founders was soon rejoined by other talented artists who were attracted by its
seriousness of purpose and devotion to the ballet. The troupe began to function as a centre
of training in the theatre arts especially dance, music and decor, in addition to its work as a
performing professional company maintaining high standards of performance.
In 1964, the Little Ballet Troupe shifted from Mumbai to Gwalior to continue as a professional
company and to establish a training institution. Simultaneously, it reconstituted itself as an
Institute of Theatre Arts, named Ranga Sri Little Ballet Troupe, with provision for training as
well as a regular performing company.
The present repertoire of the troupe comprises 37 full length ballets, Manipur, Mayurbhanj
and Saraikela Chha u dances in the form of a number of short dance numbers which can be
presented independently or in conjunction with any of the ballets.
In 1984, Ranga Sn“ Little Ballet Trope shifted to Bhopal. The Madhya Pradesh Government
has allotted 2 acres of land in Bhopal to construct its building. The Bhoorni Pujan for this
was performed on March 13, 1995. The Shilanyas was performed on December 16, 1995.
Ranga Sri Little Ballet Troupe now has constructed an Amphitheatre auditorium with a seating
capacity for 500 people, green rooms and two additional rooms for lights, curtains and sets.
It has its own rehearsal studio and halls for developing a Performing Arts Museum. The
theatre has the name Raagbandh and was inaugurated on February 28, 1997 by the President
of India, the late Dr. Shani टा Dayal Shanna.

Ranga Sn‘ Little Ballet Troupe will have in the near future

“MMMLL. … ...०.…,…५३

lt

किंम्पादृ
q? 1“?“
हूँ
..- .4‘
.
किंकी
चंदु
3 OI 3 é
।

A rich library of books on the performing arts
A wing for experimentation and training in Dance-theatre and Choreography
A wing for Research and Documentation in Dance-theatre

Il

lL

Z \ ,2 _ \ é; ‘0‘

कंध

३
'1 _.
०१ पृ .

है

'_

A"
"
ﬂ.

८

‘ ८१"

I“

.

५८१ होह/पू-प-इया-रा-तौ-थ-अ-यति, a.» I. ’-

_

