P ra bh at Ga ng u l i
दृ

August 15, 1913- May 26, 2006

Born in Benaras, Prabhat Ganguli - better known to his friends as Prabhat da - belonged to

- a conventional Brahrnin family. He was first attracted towards dance when he, as a young
boy, saw the Aheers and the Dhobis of his neighborhood dancing. He worked on his body,

developed a good physique and became an adept in physical feats.
In 1935, Uday Shankar, the legendary dancer-choreographer visited Kolkata with his troupe,
coinciding with Prabhat da’s visit to the city. Uday Shankar stayed in the city for a year
composing dances. So impressed was Prabhat da that he decided to join Uday Shankar. In
1939 he joined the Cultural Centre at Alrnora. Prabhat Ganguli’s professional career as a
dancer began from this point.
Although Prabhat da did not exactly follow Uday Shankar’s style, his intense training
under
him inﬂuenced him tremendously and became the base for creating a definite work
method
and dances. He imbibed the vigor and vitality of the folk dances of our country in his
creative
movements. In his style of dance the narrative is the nucleus around which the
movements
and choreography develop.
His choreography and ballets have taken him to many parts of the world
under various
cultural exchange programme. Well known among his ballets is ‘Hu
nger', which he
choreographed for the Indian People’s Theatre during 1944-45.
He joined the Indian
Renaissance Group, founded by Shanti Bardhan in 1948. This group
produced the ‘Discovery
of India' based on Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru’s book of the same title. He
joined Ranga Sri Little
Ballet Troupe as choreographer in 1959. He became its Principal
Choreographer in 1965
and remained so until his last. He has a number of ballet producti
ons to his credit.
He started a theatre wing at Gwalior in 1976. He produced and
directed a number of fulllength plays.
He was awarded a diploma during the Mundial Festival held in
Mexico in 1968. He received
the National Award for creative dance from the Sangeet
Natak Akaderni, Delhi in 1979. He
was invited to participate as one of the delegates to the
first congress of choreographers
held in New York in 1978. He was also a visiting professor
of mime and movement at
Jabalpur University and the National School of Drama in
Delhi. The Government of Madhya
Pradesh conferred on him the Shikhar Samman for his
long dedication to exploring new
possibilities in dances while preserving the Indian tr
adition and popularizing new dance
forms in the year 1989.

