Mahabharat
था

५ Scenes from Mahabharat - My Homage to Shantida

_ ट्वेरुट्वेंड्डे (Under the guidance of Shri Prabhat Ganguli)
3' _१ Mahabharat is unique in its depiction of the drama in which the human
mind and body are
" mere variables in a flux of material aspirations. Unparalleled in its dramat
ic grandeur,
Mahabharat has been adopted for a ballet, featuring the important episodes
which not only
form the essence of the great tale but also provide a creative challenge
to the art of
choreography. The Ballet uses the Saraikella Chhau style as also other traditio
nal elements
of Indian theatre and dance.
The ballet opens with a scene depicting the genesis of the planet Earth. With
the celestial
blast, various fragments are thrown into the waves of civilizations, symbolized
by the rhythmic
movements in this scene. The traditional narrators, Nati and Nat, appear
to tell the story of
the Mahabharat. The dance drama initially develops around the story of
how the young
Kauravas and Pandavas are playing with a ball in the forest, when Duryodha
n throws it into
a well. Dronacharya appears on the scene to solve the children's proble
m of bringing back
the lost ball. Dronacharya becomes the Guru of the princes and teaches
them the skills of
war strategies and combat. Ekalavya’s request to the Acharya to teach hi
m the art of warfare
falls on deaf ears. He, however, determined to learn from non other th
an the Acharya makes

a statue and practices in front of it. His prowess in the art of warfar
e causes a stir and
Dronacharya asks Eklavya to give him the thumb of his right hand as Guru
Dakshina. Eklavya
does so without hesitation.
The Princes have grown up and are eager to show their strength and sk
ill to the elders. A
competition is arranged where each of them shows his excellence in wiel
ding his weapon.
Arjuna stands unopposed in archery but for Karna, who wishes to enter the
competition but
cannot do so since he is not a king. duryodhana makes him the king of Anga
. Arjuna and
Kama prove equal in the contest and thus Duryodhana thus finds a strong
ally in Kama.
The enmity between the cousins grows to the extent that the Kauravas attempt
to deceitfully
kill the Pandavas by putting the house of lacquer in which they halt, on ﬁre. A time
ly message
from Vidura, saves them and they escape into the jungle, where Bhirna fall
s in love with
Hidirnba and marries her with his mother, Kunti's, blessings.
Disguised as Brahmins, the Pandavas attend Droupadi’s swayarnwara. Arjuna
fulfills the
condition for the swayamvara and Droupadi is married to Arjuna. The Kaur
avas invite
Yudhishthira to a game of dice. Yudhishthira loses everything including Drou
padi. Her
resistance results in her d isrobing . The unfortunate event ends in the Pandavas
being forced
to spend years in exile followed by a year of living in anonymity.
The period of incognito is spent in King Virat’s palace. Arjuna takes the form of a eu
nuch and
becomes a dance teacher to Uttara, Bheema becomes a cook, Nakula and Saha
deva stable
boys, Yudhishthira the king’s companion and Droupadi is maid to Sudesh
na, the wife of
King Virat.

