Sudeshna’s brother Keechaka is attracted towards Droupadi who protests. Hurniliated at
the fact that none of her husbands can protect her she turns to Bhima who ﬁghts Keechaka
and kills him. When the Kauravas come to know of Keechaka’s death, they are sure that
Bheema must have killed him and provoke Kurnar Uttara (Virat's son) to a ﬁght by stealing
.
ws
co
e
th
ves
rie
ret
d
an
es
go
ch
nu
eu
the
,
una
Arj
.
his cows
The enmity between the cousins brings Krishna to Hastinapur as an emissary of peace. He
suggests initially that the Kauravas give half the kingdom to the Pandavas to end the feud,

He ﬁnally suggests they give one village as a token of good will but all in vain. When war is
declared Kunti approaches Kama and pleads with him not to fight, to which Kama replies
that he has already promised to fight.
The eighteen days war of Kurukshetra begins. When Arjuna sees all kith and kin he puts
down his weapons and refuses to fight. Then Krishna enlightens him and Arjun again gets
ready to ﬁght the battle. The Kaurava brothers are killed one by one. On the tenth day Arjuna
kills Bheeshma.
Dronacharya then becomes the commander of the Kaurava army. He designs the Chakravyuha
in which Abhirnanyu is trapped and killed. The third commander of the Kaurava army Kama
eventually fights Arjuna with all his might and vehemence. As the wheel of Karna’s chariot
gets stuck in the mud he asks for time, which Arjun does not give. Arjun kills Karna.
The war becomes more bitter with every passing day. Shakuni and Sahadeva engage in
fierce battle which leads ultimately to Shakuni’s d ५ ath.
Having lost all the commanders, brothers and friends Duryodhana tries to escape from the
battle ﬁeld and hidesIll a pond. The Pandavastumi to Krishna to ﬁnd out his place of hiding.
Bheema finds him and drags him out of the pond and Bheema succeedsin killing him with
,
Krishna’ 5 help.
Ashwatharna sees Duryodhana’ s plight and announces in rage that he will end shoot the
Brahmaastra and put end to everything, which heIﬁnally does. And so ends yet another tale,
yet another civilization.

बैले का जीवन एक दो तीन चार की गणना पर र्कसे चलता हैं है मुझे प्रभात दा ने ही बताया । आज इसी
गणना को लेकर प्रभात दा के पदचिन्हों पर चलने के लिये प्रयासरत हूँ । 4979 में मुझे देखकर शुरू-शुरू
में दादा ने कभी बोला था कि इस बंदर को कहां से लेकर आई हो गुल मुझे तब बहुत दुख हुआ था पर बाद
में दादा का इतना प्यार मिला जि में सबकुछ भूल कर दादा का ही हो गया, दादा का सबसे ज्यादा चहेता
बन गया । आज में दादा के आर्शीवाद से कुछ छोटी सोती कोरियोग्राफी करने की कोशिश कर रहा हूँ उनकी
कृपा से मेरा काम कुछ पसंद जिया जा रहा है । मेरा सारा काम उनको समर्पित है ।
… माधव बारिक

