Simhasan Batteessi
_ The great king Vikramaditya of Ujjaini was known for his sense ofjustice, ethics, principles

, '

and acumen. He is alive in myths and legends narrated across the length and breadth of the
- country. One of the stories develops around his legendary throne - the sirnhaasan batteesi.

’

This throne is symbolic of his jurisprudence and his deep understanding of knowledge and
human values. The sirnhaasan had 32 puppets or dolls which would appear and become alive
the moment somebody sat on it and hence got the name sirnhaasan batteesi. These 32
dolls would ask the person sitting on the throne questions, which had to be answered. The
story of Sinhasan Batteesi is woven around these questions.

The story goes that shepherd Chandrabhan’s son, Brijbhan, spends his time daily playing
with his friends in the jungle. Whenever there is a dispute amongst them he would sit on a
mound and solve them easily and justly. Talk of his sense ofjustice spreads fast. Raja Bhoj
hears of this. He sends a Brahrnin who seeks justice to Brijbhan and he himself goes to
witness what happens in the guise of an ordinary citizen. The king is amazed at his judicial
prowess and asks him how he was able to do this. Brijbhan tells that the moment he sits on
the mound of mud he experiences an inexplicable strength within him. The king orders the
mound to be dug up. A wonderful throne is found, which the king orders to be taken to his
palace. After it is cleansed ritually he desires to sit on it, but is unable to do so because a
doll appears and asks him whether he is worthy enough to sit on it. She tells him how
Vikramaditya got this throne.
The doll tells him that one day the king goes hunting in the jungle. He chases a deer but it
manages to escape. Vikramaditya climbs a treetop in order to spot it but instead sees a
beautiful city. The city’s minister comes to him in the form of a crow and tells him not to
make the mistake of attacking the city because his king, Maharaja Bah ubal, who was known
for his generosity and kindness, had Lord lndra’s throne and could thus never be defeated.
But if King Vikramaditya were to ask him for this throne he would give it. Vi krarnaditya goes
to the king and meets him. When he is about to leave Maharaja Bahubal asks him what he
would like as a gift. Vikramaditya asks for the throne. Bahubal gives it to him without a
secondthought
The doll tells Raja Bhoj that a king must have generosity and mercy within him instead of
anger. He should sit on the throne only if he has these qualities. The doll goes back from
where she came. The next day when Raja Bhoj is again about to sit on the throne another
doll appears and stops him from doing so unless he listens to another story. Vikramaditya
one day went deep into the jungles to meditate for the benefit of his subjects. On his return
to his kingdom he meets a sadhu. The sadhu is impressed with the king's strength of character,
his determination and his love for his subjects and blesses him with a fruit. Whosoever
should eat the fruit would be blessed with an extremely intelligent son whose love for justice
would make him renowned. The king takes the fruit and as he continues his journey to the
kingdom he hears a women weeping. He stops her from taking her life and wants to know
what has driven her to take this step. She tells him that she has no son which is why she

