wants to give up her life. He gives her the fruit and asks her to give it her husband to eat so
that she can bear hi ma son . Her husband, however, feels that such a fruit is fit only for kings
and so he takes it to the palace and gives it to the king. The king recognizes the fruit and
. . पृदृ gives it to his queen who is in love with one of the soldiers. She gives the fruit to him, who in
३ " turn gives it to the prostitute with whom he is having an affair. She feels that such a fruit
should only be given to the king. When she takes it to him, the king's amazement on seeing
knows no bounds. When the king asks his queen what had happened to the fruit she tells
him that she had eaten it. She faints when he shows her the fruit.
The king gives up worldly life and follows the spiritual path. Having meditated in the jungles
for a long time, Raja Vikramaditya thinks of subjects and the kingdom and decides to return
to it. When the gate-keeper at the city’s entrance recognizes the king he warns him to
beware of an enemy. The king acknowledges this and goes towards his palace.
A sad hu visits the king and tells him that he intends to perform a yagya for which he requires
a betaal or spirit. The king must bring him a betaal without which the yagya would remain
incomplete. The king tries to catch one 24 times but it manages to escape each time.
Finally at the 25th attempt the king catches the betaal, who tells him that the sadhu was his
enemy and wanted him sacriﬁced. The betaal tells him that when the sadhu tells him to bow,
the king should tell him to demonstrate this since a king would not know how to bow.
Reminded of the gate-keepers warning, the king follows the betaal’s advice and beheads the
sadhu and saves his own life. The doll tells Raja Bhoj that if he could be as dauntless and
generous as King Vikrarnadiya ten he should ascend the throne. Whenever Raja Bhoj
attempted to sit on the throne a doll would ask him a question which he had to answer. At
the end the queen of dolls appears and asks him why he was no longer adamant to sit on
the throne. Raja Bhoj says that after all that he had heard about King Vikrarnaditya made
him realize only that person who would have the qualities of King Vikramaditya would be
worthy of this throne. He also said he would place it under the mound whence it had been
dug out.
On hearing Raja Bhoj say this, the dolls are overjoyed. They are released from earthly
bonds. Submerged in the waters of the Cavery, the throne awaits the king who has the
qualities of King Vikrrnaditya. It will then emerge again.

सन् 4984 को (2 जुलाई को मै कभी नही भूल सकती जब मैने उस महान व्यक्ति को देखा । देखते ही जो
आत्मीयता, प्यार, स्नेह मुझे मिला, लगा जिन्दगी से शायद इसी की तलाश थी मुझे । मेरा नृत्य से कोई खास
लगाय नही होने से बार-बार हिम्मत हार जाती थी, पर दादा इतने हक और प्यार से कहते थरै जि एलबीटी.
से आई अपनी इच्छा से हो, पर जाओगी मेरी इच्छा से ही । आज शायद दादा के वही शब्द मेरी जिन्दगी का
हिस्सा बन गये है कि में एलबीटी. में हूँ । दादा की ये महानता श्री जि तो बडे से को व्यक्ति और साधारण
से साधारण व्यक्ति के साथ उसी जैसे बन जाते ये । तो एक महान गुना के साथ…साथ है मेरे पिता, दोस्त,
भाई, मार्गदर्शक और शुभचिंतक थे । उनकी कमी मरते दम तक रहेगी l दादा ने एल-बीती को जिन्दा रखने
के लिये जो तो सन् 4959 से जलाई श्री उसको उन्होंने 26 मई, 2006 तक हर दिन जला कर रखा । आज

महसूस होता है जि वो तो कॉप रही है उस महान कोरियोग्राफर को में उनका काम आगे बढा कर ही सच्ची
श्रद्धांजलि अर्पित कर सकती हूँ I
— श्रुति कीर्ति

