S i d h i da r S id hi u rf Tu k ke pe Tu kka
The play Sidhi dar Sidhi urf Tukke pe Tukka is based on a Chinese tale called ‘Three
Promotions in Succession taken from a collection by Liu Baorui’. The tale is a vivid description
of the absolute hollowness of the existing system and the irresponsible leadership. 80
familiar was its theme, that had it not been mentioned in black and white that the tale was

Chinese, I would have without a second thought , mistaken it for an Indian folktale.
Tukku, the son of a rich landlord has never been to school. He grows up whiling away his
time playing street games and flying kites with his cronies bringing about a kind of lurnpen
culture.
A najumi one day sees in Tukku a ready income. He approaches Tukku and tells him that he
has the makings of a high officer in the imperial court. Were he to appear in the royal
examination he would secure one of the first three positions. Rather pleased with the turn of
events, Tukku rewards the najumi generously.
Tukku reaches the capital. On the strength of the royal seal, Tukku’s dream of becoming an
officer in the imperial court is finally realized. Tukku’s stupid decisions are welcome in the
court. However, it is the rnaskhara who right from the very beginning sees through Tukku’s
stupidity.
Tukku’s rash and unreasonable decision to present the nawab with a laudatory verse on his
birthday brings him finally face to face with his problem of illiteracy. The budha afsar, who
knows the secret of Tukku's illiteracy, takes full advantage of this and writes the verse on
Tukku's behalf. Just as the reading of the verse is to commence, rebels invade the palace
and put‘an end to the nawab‘s rule. The naya nawab who is highly impressed by what Tukku
is known to have written honors Tukku by making him the next nawab.

सम् (984 से मैने दादा के मार्गदर्शन मे काम करना शुरू जिया । एक बार में हिम्मत हार के वापस उडीसा
चला जाना चाहता था पऱ दादा ने अपने घात बुलाया और प्यार से हमारे सर पर हाथ रखा और कहा में तो
तुम्हारे साथ…हूँ फिर जिस बात की चिंता है तुम को, सब कुछ मेरे ऊपर छोड दो । मैंने उनको अपने को जाप
दिया .। अनाज में अपने ;काम से संतुष्ट हूँ और दादा को अपने साथ महसूस करता हूँ ।
… प्रताप मोहन्ता

