The Ramayana
A Dance Drama in Puppet Style
रा: T- This ballet was first performed at the Jai
Hind College Hall, Bombay, on January 6, 195
3
.
This novel composition presents a “folkloristic ver
sion of the Ramayana in the manner of the
Rajasthani Puppet play", for it combines the feature
s of ballet and puppet play. The movements
of the human puppets are stylized; all dancers
wear square masks on which faces crowns
and headgears are modeled and painted. They
create the illusion of the wooden, head-heavy
puppet, but give through skilful execution an
almost phantastic animation to the faces;
critics have called them ‘a stroke of genius'.
The theme of the Ramayana is aptly introduced in th
e context of a village Fair, with peasants
and their wornenfolk milling around in the excitemen
t of the market. In the background rival
showrnen are trying to attract revelers to their res
pective entertainments. Enter the Puppet
Masters, w
ho begin to show their rnarionettes, while the Dr
ummer announces the main

The City of Ayodhya celebrates the return of Rama and Lak
shmana after Rama’s wedding.
The jubilation at Rama’s forthcoming coronation is cut short by
Queen Kaikeyi who, instigated
by Manthara, asks for Rama’s exile. King Dasaratha, bound
by a long-standing promise to
grant two boons to Kaikeyi whenever asked for, is helpless
and broken. Rama willingly
accepts exile and sets out for the forest accompanied by Sita and L
akshmana. The exiles
cross the river Ga nga in a ferry. The bewildered populace mourns
their departure.
Rama and Lakshmana build a hut in the forest of Panchavati. Ravana’s
sister Surpanakha,
coming across the hut, makes advances at Rama and then at Lakshm
ana, who spurns her
and cuts off her nose. The demon warriors Khara and Dushana who are call
ed to her aid are
killed by Rama after a fight.
In his court Ravana sits watching a dance performance. Surpanakha enters to re
late her tale
of woe. Ravana is enraged and swears vengeance.
The Demon Maricha is sent disguised as a golden deer to lure Rama away fr
om the hut.
Sita, attracted by the deer’s golden coat, persuades Rama to hunt it. Hearing a cry whic
h
she imagines to be Rama’s call of distress, Sita sends Lakshmana into the forest after hi
m.
Ravana appears in the disguise of a Sadhu seeking alrns and abducts Sita.
On his way to Lanka with Sita, Ravana encounters Jatayu, whose chivalrous attempt to
rescue Sita is failed by Ravana who mortally wounds him in a fight. Jatayu lingers on the
pass the news to Rama, and dies at his feet.
in Kishkinda Sita drops an anklet in the kingdom of the Vanara, while she is being carried to
Lank. It is found by the Vanaras. Han urnan , the Vanara warrior, escorts Rama and Lakshmana
to prince Sugriva. Rama recognizes the anklet and asks for help in invading Lanka.
Han urnan enters the Ashoka Grove and delivers Sita a message from Rama, giving her his
ring. The dernoness Trijata relates her dream to her companions and interprets it as the
foreboding of Ravana’s doom.
Ravana is killed in the final battle and the rule ofjustice re-established.

