Animal Farm (Pashutantra)
, Power corrupts and people will ever revolt against it is the theme of Pashutantra which takes
its inspiration from George Orwell's great satire “Animal Farm". This novel-composition
combines the features of ballet, opera and drama, and thus possesses the meticulous charm

of total theatre. It draws richly from the store of fantasy and inventiveness, the characteristics
of lndian folklore. The movements of the animals and birds are stylized. All dancers wear half
mask and create through skillful execution an atmosphere of the animal world.
A regular animal world of chicken and ducklings, birds, pigs, cows, donkey, dogs and horses
- eggs are hatched, animals graze and the usual world of animal life takes from the vainglorious,
fashionable mare which is a pet of the owner Ramji. She is a class by herself. Tossing her
mane, she swings her lovely limbs with pride.
In response to the discontentment of the animals for their farm owner Ramji, the old hog
infuses in them the spirit of rebellion. The uproar awakes the owner Ramji who springs out of
bed and fires a shot or two into the darkness. The animals get scared and flee to their own
resting places. This weak and timid reaction disheartens the old hog who sinks down and
dies of his disappointment. The animals mourn the old hog's death.
No animal is happy with the crow because he works against the animals' unity by spying on
them and then taking his tales back to Ramji.

Ramji's workers are idle and dishonest. The animals are unable to stand the misery of
hunger and thirst. They break the door of the store shed. This commotion awakes Ramji. He
rushes out kicks his men for their negligence and whips the animals mercilessly. The animals
are scared and run helter—skelter at first. But the situation becomes uncontrollable. The
animals in unison fling themselves upon Ramji, kicking him from all sides. Ramji escapes
and slips out of the farm With his wife. The animals chase him out and become the owner of
the farm. They celebrate this victory by burning all those things that remind them of Ramji’s
exploitation.
Animals form their own constitution of seven commandments. Meantime the untiring Ramji
plans to recapture the farm. He tires to convince the neighboring farmers of the necessity to
join him.
The animals learn the three R’s and are trained through drills, games and defense tactics.
They come to know of Ramji’s approach with his band and promptly attack them with kicks,
bites and trample them. They rush out of the farm. Animals erect a war memorial in celebration
of this great victory over the tyranny of man.
The pig leader Lalu Bhai plans the construction of a wind mill. Another pig leader, Kalu, being

jealous of Lalu, plans to bring in factions among the animal. The animals are unable to
decide who is right. They put the matter to vote. Lalu wins. He takes the animals to the site

of the construction. Meanwhile Kalu conspires to oust Lalu and so he dirties the site by his
excretion. Lalu's party comes to know that the work is spoiled. Lalu raises a hue and cry
against Kalu, but he sees to it that Lalu is driven out from the farm.

