Kalu assumes the new leadership. The work of the windmill starts. Hard work and I‘

nourishment tires the animals. Hunger grips them. The donkey directs them to Kalu_
promises them food by selling eggs. The chicks object to this and so he gets rid of t h e m.

A stormy night-the gale damages their construction. Th is dampens the animals’ erithusigjsm

Kalu spreads the rumor that Lalu is the criminal who has broken the windmill. So he Place
a fresh foundation stone for ‘he construction of a new windmill. He also changes the constitujmf
to his own convenience.

‘
.

__ . ५३८

"

The construction of the windmill is in progress. The horse works with u ntiring efforts. While

५३3

working a heavy stone falls on him and he is badly injured. The donkey sends messengejt

तीन

to Kalu to inform him of the accident. Kalu promptly pays an ofﬁcial visit to the horse.
H;

@‘w

promises the best of the medical aid by sending him to the hospital, but conspires
with his
stooge to take the horse to the butchers instead.

The butcher's cart arrives and the horse is carted off. The innocent animals are unawareoj
this trick. When the donkey informs the animals of the leader’s intention , they make a united
effort to save the horse but all irt vain.
Kalu and his stooges are power drunk. He throws a party in connection with the striking Ofa

new business deal. The neighboring farmers arrive at the invitation and are duly welcomed
These farmers are the friends and spies of Ramji. They drink, dance, play cards and indulge
in other revelries as part of the celebration. Cheating in a game of cards causes a fight
between Kalu and the guests, who try to shoot him. Frightened Kalu hides himself to save

his life. Somehow the animals get together and drive cut the guests. Once the men are
driven out Kalu comes out of his hiding to assume his leadership. But it is
too late. The
animals turn against him as well. Kalu ﬂees for his life.
Thus injustice and exploitatit n is routed out. Revolution will go on as long as ty
ranny, injustice
and exploitation exist.

मैंने कुछ अपने जीवन में सीखा है तो वह दादा के द्वारा दिया गया है l मेरा आत्मविश्वास और आज़
मै जो
कुछ भी हूँ दादा की वज़ह से हूँ । तो मेरे जीवन में हमेशा साथ रहेंगे
।
- तरूण दत्व पाण्डेय

