parked in the shadows of the huge Banyan tree under which Leela Bhanot‘s room and the

hostel's kitchen, boti r stood protected. The pair seemed to be leaving. This giant sized man

stood towering above me. He took my chin in his right hand. My whole face seemed to
c. \
\.

vanish into it. He bent towards me, so that his face seemed even huger than what it looked
like when he stood straight. His eyes seemed to pierce my very soul when he said “If you
want anything then tell me. " My voice seemed to have disappeared. All I could do was look

at him and nod my head with difﬁculty because half my face was still lost somewhere in his
palm. This was my introduction to Prabhat da and GUI di. This was the point from where a
relationship without end was to begin.
One of their dancers, Narayan da would pick me up from the school every Sunday, set me
on the back-seat of his bicycle and take me to Patel Chhatravas. Patel Chhatravas became

my space of fantasy. fun and learning. I experienced the most beautiful moments because
I was the only audience. I could either watch a dance rehearsal or actually see how music

was composed. । could sit for hours and listen to Manju di sing in a voice that seemed to be
without end. l could rush from Prabhat da’s cozy room under the staircase to Gul di’s
garden, where she had personally planted each and every ﬂower. I had the right to ask
Choku di to make me a hot aaloo ka parantha. I watched Gul di dancing madly under the
guidance of Krishnachandra Nayak to the rhythm of the dhol played by Purendra Darha,
and then have her bowl of sprouted black gram, telling me “Even a horse eats this, and see
how much strength ”it has and how fast it can run l" I saw Shirali ji light his agarbatti every
morning after he had cleaned his tiny ofﬁce room and was ready to begin the day's work. I
made friends with B. M. Shah who allowed me to participate passively in the making of

Pashutantra. I watched Prabhat da direct Nadi Pyasi thi and Madhushala. I saw Ranu da
create music for his new ballet Srishti.
Prabhat da did not inherit his inclination towards dance. It was not a talent he was born with
and neither was it unforeseen expression. He learnt to dance and honed his choreographic
skills through sheer hard work. One sees the use of body, mind and space in his
choreography, in his very dance. One sees in his ballets a very deep rooted link between
the use of energy, the movements that emerged from this energy and the economy in
movement.
He was born on 15th August, 1913 in the city of Varanasi the cultural capital of the country
then. Varanasi at that time played a historical role of being a gathering place for the country’s

greatest freedom fighters. It was a platform, a base where freedom of expression was
encouraged. The waves of the Ganga danced not only to the rhythm of the chants that
promised to wash away the sins of her worshippers, but to a greater force, a more prominent
rhythm that swept the country with the urge to regain its dignity of freedom that had been
lost. Its shores were open to art-forms, poetry, expressions and critique.

What is interesting is that the traditions of poetics, the strains of the Sitar, Tabla, Pakhavaj,
Shehnai and Sarangi, the pirouettes of Kathak, and even the recitation of poetry seemed
not to impress the young Prabhat’s mind. What did leave him amazed were artistic

