expressions of the working-class. The dances of the aheers and the dhobees instrumental in
rejuvenating their energies after a day's hard toil and labor, made a tremendous impact on
him. So impressed was this young Brahmin boy that he decided to do away with all outward
\ symbol that made him a Brahmin and took to dance. Uday Shankar’s performances became

the driving force within him‘that took him to Kolkata in 1 935. Uday Shankar was to remain in
Kolkata for a year choreographing new dances and ballets. A meeting between the two was
the last straw and then there was nothing that could in any way make young Prabhat change
his mind or even remotely think that he would do anything else other than dance. Uday

Shankar saw the beauty in Prabhat’s body and was charmed by his manner - but was quite
uncertain whether he would be a good dancer. However his dauntless love for dance finally
led him to make his entry at Uday Shankar's Cultural Centre in Almora.
The fact that Prabhat da was not a born dancer meant hard work. He was, at one point, to
dance with Simki, the French dancer, who was known for her grace. beauty and, of course,
her perfection in movement. She was appalled at this new dancer's slow pace in imbibing

what had to be executed dexterously. She refused to continue and the duo had to break up.
This was a heartbreaking, miserable never-to-be-forgotten experience for Prabhat, and yet it

was a challenge that made the dream he nurtured within, to become a great dancer, come
true. His hours of practice knew no limits. He danced and danced and did nothing but dance
till he accomplished ﬂawlessness and excellence in every movement he executed. He began
being compared with the most renowned of Uday Shankar’s disciples, Ramgopal, and also

with none other than Uday Shankar himself. Simki too found herself drawing closer to Prabhat
da. Was this that same slow bongali moshaye who had irritated her no end? Caste, creed,

color and language had no place in their relationship and they married. Although Prabhat da
took inspiration and strength from Uday Shankar’s style of dance, he had carved his own
path. His ballets have been a topic of discussion not only in India but also in the 28 other
countries where his ballets have been performed time and again.
With the closing of the Cultural Centre in Alrnora, Prabhat da joined the | PTA in Delhi between
1944 and 1945. It was at this time that he choreographed ‘Hunger’, which immediately
became the talk of the town. He joined the Indian Renaissance Group in 1948 along with
Shanti Bardhan. Together with Shanti da he created the ballet The Discovery of I ndia based
on Jawaharlal Nehru’s book with the same title. When Shanti da passed away in 1953 the
shock was staggering. Prabhat da became a part of the Ranga Sri Little Ballet Troupe in
1959 as its choreographer. He became its Chief Choreographer in 1965 and remained so
right to his very last.
Ranga‘Sri Little Ballet Troupe's journey from Bombay to Gwalior and then ﬁnally to Bhopal
has been long. Through all its ups and downs, Prabhat da kept adding to its basic training
methodology, building on its vocabulary, expanding its language. The threads of the fabric
that Shanti da had woven remain undamaged till today. Prabhat da dyed that fabric in the
most vivid colors. Shanti da’s Ramayan in the style of a puppet dance, his Panchatantra,
Prabhat da's Bhairavi and Chrakravyuh and Gul di’s Mahabharat are all visuals dyed in

