SY NOPS | S
Act 1

Scene 4

Scene 1

Kalidas returns from the market and narrates the

Ruchi and Kalidas are sitting idle in their drawing
room. Ruchi is getting irritated by Kalidas’s continuos

horrifying experience, of how helpless and humiliating

blabbering. They are expecting their son, Anurag and
daughter-in-law Nilima, to visit them in the evening
along with their grand son Rahul. This has created an
atmosphere of enthusiasm in their otherwise gloomy
household. They are also expecting their friend Alok
to arrive the same evening for negotiating with his
separated wife Raksha, in the presence of Ruchi and
Kalidas .
Scene 2
Alok startles Ruchi by his sneaky entry. In the
absence of Kalidas, Alok makes deliberate lusty
remarks on Ruchi’s beauty and youthfulness. Ruchi
blasts him for his disgusting manners. Alok slyly hints
at the old age of Kalidas and tries to emotionally
blackmail Ruchi by syrnpathising with her loneliness.
Ruchi confronts him strongly and reasserts her faith in
her marriage. Her hard-hitting words unnerve Alok
and make him feel like a man of utter failure and
desperation.

Scene 3

he felt when some youths abused him as a wrett hed
old man. Alok is in an attacking mood and autism
Raksha of politicising the whole affair and poisoning
their children’s mind against him.

By the time

Raksha entered Alok has already lost patience to
create a congenial atmosphere for mutual dialogue.
Ultimately the talks fail as they both are confirmed
beyond doubt that they can’t have a future together.

Act 2
Scene 1
Kalidas curses the architects who have signed these
flats, which remain devoid of sunlight and fresh air.
Ruchi gets irritated on being disturbed by Kalidas in
her deep sleep and rebukes him for his insensitivity.
Kalidas also counters her for her demeaning ways of
treating him. Their argument yet again leads them to
their son and daughter and their separation from
them. Alok comes in with the news of Rajesh being
hospitalised in a critical condition after suffering a
major heart attack.

Scene 2

Anurag and Nilima arrive with their little son Rahul.
Alok visits Rajesh and Kaushalya and informs them
Ruchi is disheartened as all her efforts to attract her
about his failed talk with Raksha. Just then Cyan
grandson’s attention fail. Arunrag grows impatient
arrives and narrates his horriflying experience with
with his mother’s attitude and wants to hurry along to
his wife and son, and believes that they have
got
see movie with his wife, leaving the child with the
together in a conspiracy to strip him completely
of
grand parents. Kalidas’s friend Rajesh and Kaushalya
his property rights.
intercept them. Ruchi indirectly hints Kaushalya that
their presence is not appropriate on the crucial
He receives a call from his wife informing him
about
occasion of negotiation between Rajesh and Raksha.
his son’s fatal accident and he lying in a hospita
l
in
Kaushalya feels insulted and immediately wants to
critical condition. Cyan refuses to believe it, instead
take leave but Rajesh insists on having a cup of tea
he takes the news as another conspiracy to trap him.
before leaving and an argument ensues between them
Rajesh finds the chain of events quite amusing and
and they eventually leave the scene, full of
breaks into a fit of laughter and ultimately suffers a
bitterness.
major heart attack.

