Scene 3
Rajesh is irritated with his son Vikas and daughter-in—

Kalidas recites a poem which Ruchi promptly
appreciates for the first time. All friends gather at

law Sonia for their short visit to India and their

Kalida’s place

superficial concern for his health. Ruchi and Kalidas
arrive with a parcel for their daughter staying in

Alok and Raksha. Alok enters in a baffled state and
breaks the news of his failed attempt to reunite with
his family and in a flash of a moment snatches

America. Rajesh grows impatient and criticises his

son in front of the guests. Ruchi tries to stop him.
Raiesh is full of bitterness towards all who advise him

anticipating the news of reunion of

Cyan’s revolver and shoots himself to death. All

remain standing, shell shocked.

on how to spend his retirement days, including

Kalidas. Kaushalya wants her son to stay for one
more week but Vikas has made up his mind to leave
for good.

Act 3
Scene 1
Neha has come to Ruchi for some financial help.
Both Ruchi and Kalidas are impressed by her sense of
responsihility towards her single mother. Ruchi curses
Alok’s escapism and is full of respect and admiration
for this young girl who cut short her studies and took
up job to support her mother. After Neha's exit Alok
comes to seek help from Ruchi and Kalidas for his
last and final attempt to negotiate with Raksha. Ruchi
refuses him outright and advises him to wait for
sometime before he approaches Raksha so that she
rerovers from her initial state of anger and shock
aitei the failure of their earlier negotiations

Scene 2
km hi and Kalidas are taking their life’s account and
dismissing their losses and assets. Kalidas grows
nostalgu

ieiiieiiiheiing his childhood (lays and the

friendly neighhourhood. l lis retirement days have
filled him with a sense of worthlessness and
nit-.ininglessni-ss of his existent e. lo est ape from this
depiession he iiiakes rounds of park in the evening
and tries to iind sola( e hy identifying himselt with
other old men oi the aim. l Ie is haunted hy the in
age oi old lllt'rl iediu ed to skeleton, huddled

toiqi-tliiri, (iiielly laughing at hiiii. l\‘u<hi teels pity toi
()iiiiiig ihe Reliersal
him

and, ( l|ll( ises

the

western (()lt(('[)l

ot

ieliieiiient.

