WHY I WROTE THE PLAY?
[This note was published in the very first issue of

all the time so to speak.

Rang P ta 5a ng . l
The play is, Dimaghe Hasti, Dil Ki Basti, Hai Kahan?

I stopped writing it as a play and started writing it as
a novel. But inspite of my best efforts and my being

H a i K a h a n .?

a ’skilled novelist’, I failed to take it forward after

The play has not been shown to the experts. It is
quite possible this play is not even worth staging. ।

play and the same scene I had mentioned earlier
came and stubbornly remained in front of my eyes.

have been asked why did I write this play, since ।
have been writing only novels, stories and poems till

Though the fact remains that it was not yet written
either in the play or in the novel i.e. in whatever

now .

was written of it. । again started writing the play and
it went on smoothly, and within a year it was
completed.

writing a few pages. I felt that it could only be a

The pat answer would be, "it came in my mind“, and

| just sat down to write it.

Basically this is the truth.

But । also feel that things are not so simple, and if ।

This was in the context of the ’innate compulsion’.

chose to write this, there must be certain

Now for the other points. For years together, this fact

experiences, which have gone into making of this
play. First of all the fact that ’ it came in my mind’.

has haunted me, that our intellectuals have

Strangely, initially the scene that came into my mind
regarding this play, was quiet different from the main
theme of the play. A highly romantic English
language journalist, who is also a English playwright

been

anything which is foreign and have indiscriminately borrowed the trends and ideas

obsessed

with

etc from the west and we have done little to
overcome this phenomenon. । have mentioned this
sham intellectuality and non-inventiveness in my last

dabbling with the genre, after his failed marriage

novel which I finished before writing this play. For

desperately tries to evolve a relationship with the

producing something fresh and new in poetry I used

beautiful and youthful wife of his fast-growing old
friend. The friend’s wife laughs at his stupidity and
gives him a thrashing.

to think and still do that in place of verse (which has
not suited our temperament) or along with it we
should produce something new based on Doha,

Except for the fact that it ”carne in my mind", as a
scene of the play, there was nothing in it that

something different or something altogether new
which should suit our singing temperament’which

required that it must be written as part of a play. In
fact after starting the play (and the start of the play

itself is based on our natural inclination.

Chaupai, Shlok, Cazal etc., we should produce

did not begin with this Scene - it was to come later),

As for plays, I used to feel that it should not be very

when the outline became a little clear, । felt that this

difficult to express something of your own, since it

could be written better as a novel.

Play writing was

also ’unknown territory’ for me, whereas I was ’wellversed’ in writing novels.

has existed in many forms and have been well
propagated and known by now. I mean to indicate
that, by taking into account our interest and talent,

we could always benefit from these various forms.
Secondly, a play reaches people only when it is
staged, whereas, a novel can be picked anytime from
the shelf and can be read, as if a novel gets staged

This aspect was not there in my mind in a
particularly consci0us manner, but nevertheless it was
there-may be in the form of a ’normal

