FRIEND AND WRITER — MAHENDRA BHALLA
my mind, who would gather round the coffee tables

About four years from now, when we were busy
collecting material for the first issue of Rang Prasang,

of Coffee & Tea Houses every evening and then

I came to know that Mahendra has written a play

would start a series of discussions and debates on

and he has already forwarded it to the then director

subjects ranging from art to literature, from theatre to

of NSD, the eminent theatre personality, Ram Gopal

movies, media to politics. Sometimes we would
gather at Mahendra’s place, sometimes in my room

Bajaj for his opinion. I was also eager to read the
play. Mahendra is my friend for the past forty years.

at Santnagar, Karol Bagh and sometimes in the Cole

I had first met him in Delhi in 1960, when I had

Market Studio of well known painter Ram Kumar. In

come to Delhi to spend my summer holidays with my
friend Ashok Seksaria who was then working with the

group, we would stroll in the Connaught Circle, in its

’Dainik Hindustan’. I was in college and my poems

the cups of tea and coffee, discussing and debating
all the while. Amongst us, Mahendra was the oldest

and stories had started appearing in magazines. in
Calcutta, it was a routine affair for us to go through
all the leading Hindi magazines of the time and ।
had read some of Mahendra’s stories and poems (yes,
he writes poems as well) published in ’Kriti’ edited by
Naresh Mehta and Srikant Verma. Soon I became
fond of his writings. Later on my elder brother
Ramnarayan Shukla also became good friend of
Mahendra. Mahendra’s stories and poems, published
in the well known literary magazines of the time like
’Kalpana’,’Kahani’, ’Kriti’ etc had a kind of freshness

lanes and by lanes, parks, drinking beer, emptying

habitant of Delhi and had started working at a very
young age, and was well accustomed with the
working of the modern offices of the business houses.
He was far more experienced, active and smart than

most of us. Over the years we had come to develop
cordial relations with the like of Nirmal Verma, Ram
Kurnar, Mohan Rakesh; Krishna Sobti, Srikant Verma,

Swaminathan, Ambadas, Himmat Shah, all belonging
to the different field of art & literature. As I had
mentioned earlier our discussions and debates

in them, a certain modern outlook, a sensitivity,

consisted of subjects like theatre, art literature, films,

which went well in relation with the trend, of’New

world literature, books, politics and other social cultural issues of the day. Now I can say with

Writing’ prevailing perhaps all over the world in
sixtees. Ashok Seksaria in his letters often used to

gratitude that all those discussions have come a long

mention Mahendra’s creative compositions in his
writings and it was no wonder that when finally ।

way in shaping of our ideas about life and arts; and

happened to meet him for the first time, we felt no

Later on Mahendra went to England and stayed there
for a considerable period of time, doing various jobs

stranger to each other. After spending my summer

have in a way helped us to know ourselves better.

holidays, I came back to Calcutta and then I also
this only contributed in enhancing his world \view
started corresponding with Mahendra. In 1963-64 after further, and all these experiences of cross cultural

spending some ten months in the editorial board

issues, have ultimately found their way in his

of’Kalpana’ in Hyderabad, l shifted to Delhi with an

w r i t i ng s .

intention of settling down there. My meetings with
Mahendra became frequent, and soon I became an
integral part of the vibrant circle of friends & writers

For the past forty years, l have come to know
Mahendra as an intimate friend and a committed

Ashok Seksaria, Mahendra Bhalla, Prabodh Kurnar,

family man, a responsible citizen, with absolute

Jitendra Kurnar, Vasudev, Ram Prakash, Ramesh

resoluteness (sometimes stubborn also) and strictly

Coswami, Atul Bhardwaj and Sagar Sethi. Going

sticking to his ideas. One can say without any

down the memory lane many more names come to

hesitation that his stubbornness in a way has worked

