rityastuti is an annual dance
recital organised by the re
nowned Sattriya dance ex—
ponent Naren Chandra Boru—
ah, whereby his disciples
perform and display the various Sattriya
dance pieces that they beconre proﬁcient
in while training at the Nrityabhurni iristitute. This year, it was held at the Rab—
indra Blrawan, Guwahati.
Nrityabhumi is a socio-cultural organ—
isation established at Grrwahati by Boru—
ah in 2000. It has since been working
towards imparting the rich
'
Sattr'iya legacy to many errthusiastic aspirants, while
also maintaining the originality and versatility of the classical form.
Boruah is an established
dancer, choreographer, mu«
sic composer, and above all,
a perfectionist ofthe Sattri—
ya dance tradition in Assam.
In 2010, he was awarded the
Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva
Puraskar by the Sangeet Na—
tak Akadenri, New Delhi.
He is also the recipient of many other
prestigious awards like the Natyashri
Award presented by the Nataraj Music
and Dance Academy at the Vyasakhi
Nrityotsav in Visakhapatnam, in 2010.
He has had the privilege ofperforming
a at significant national and international
cultural events, and in carrying forward
the rich Sattriya tradition to its glorious pinnacle.
The Nrityastuti recital at the Rabindra
Bhawan was graced by esteemed Sattriya artistes like Adlzyapak Nilakanta Bayan and Adhyapuk Rupai Burhabhakat
from the Blrogpur Satra. Majuli. After
the auspicious lighting of the lamp, the
Sattriya artistes were felicitated with
' palor selcng (liador, somi and matrix/m!ro, and the chiefguests of the function -

n'
annual
affair
Barsha Goswami
mm mmच्चाज्जाव्रmum-mm.me

Dulal Roy and Swapnanil Barua, apprised
the audience about Sattriya and the necessity to uphold and strive for the prosperity of this dance form. The eminent
guest list also included Raju Das and
Moinul Haque.
The cultural evening began with a sacred Sanskrit slaka. A distinct panel of

musicians — Debasankar Barman with his
vocals, Bhupen Rajbongshi on the ﬂute,
Hitesh Sarma on the violin, Dayaram
Gayan on the [all] and Naren Ch Borualr
on the 121101, enriched the performances
with their magical symphony.
After the initial performance of the
Guru Vandwza, the youngest group of
students performed the Mafi Akham.
displaying the preliminary steps that are
taught to an aspirant of Sattriya (lance,

and which are to be honed so as to make
them adept for further training. The 1ittle ones — clad in Satrriya attire, looked
adorable and they all performed with
great zeal and enthusiasm.
Some other itenrs performed dur—
ing the evening included Kris/ma NH?
tya , Nadubhangi, Jhumm'a . Rajaghuriya Chair and Balzar, which were exe»
cuted with great poise, expression. arr»
thentic movements and synclrronisa
tion. All the participants exhibited spectacular performances which were
greatly enjoyed and appreci»
ated by the audience.
The main attraction of the
evening was the C/zur‘zri'rmgr] dance piece. A beautiful
blend of Sattriya, Bilal‘atv
natyam, Odissi and Kathalt,
the fotir classical dance forms
of India. performed in each
of their characteristic styles
set to the Sattriya dance
melody. Besides the students
of Naren Ch Boruah, the
dance piece was also performed by the pupils of Guru
Garima Hazarika and Cam Aligunjan
Kalita Mudiar‘. The audience were cap»
tivated by the aesthetically choreo~
graphed fusion. The quick transitions.
the elegant gestures amazed everyone
and they were left mesmerised by the
brilliant coordination, expressiveness
and soothing music.
The function concluded with the traditional Khurmair, whereby the students
of Nrityabhurni. along with theirgm‘n.
thanked the audience for their gcncrosi
ty and clemency. 'l‘he spectators seer ﬂed
to enjoy all the performances … as they
applauded the performances \i'lrolt»
hear'tedly. Such response from the
crowds can do wonders to the artistes'
morale. thereby givingr a big boost to the
Sattriya tradition of Assam.

