५८८५८

~

,AEFJSX.._ ...

Actively supported by her husband
Amitava Mukherjee, she has virtually
singlehandedly revived this dance style that
“existed” in Bengal since the Vedic era.
“Women would extract 50m and perform
the Gandharva-Nritya in temples here,"
said Profrssor Manabendu Bandopadhyay,
general secretary of the Asiatic Society,
Kolkata, who graced the occasion as the
guest of honour along with Professor
Rabiranian Chattopadhyay, mayor-incouncil, government of West Bengal.

According to the latter, the coinage of

and]! Shlvkumar Shanna and Ajoy Chakrabarty handing over the cheque.

H

ing hand

The umni of South Point School and
Patha Bhavan organised a mega event on
Z8June at Nazrul Mancha to raise funds
for a cause, “Standing with Nepal". Among
the mega stars of the music world who
graced the evening and participated in the

concert were legendary santoor maestro
Pandit Shivkumar Shanna, ﬁlmdorn‘s
veteran songsttess Kavita Krishnamurti, top
milking vocalists Pandit Aioy Chakrabarty
.tnd Ustad Rashid Khan, table tennis
exponent T'arunoy Bose, popular singers
liabul Supriyo, Anushesh Anandil, Akriti
Kakkar and Inde Sen, and young Suha
Khan. The aim of the concert was to adopt
and rebuild “Bhaktapur”, a village 15 km
away from eastern fringes of Kathmandu,
capital of Nepal, which was destroyed
during the recent earthquakes.
Initiated by nationally acclaimed

ﬁlmmaker and South Point School alumni
Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury, Tanmoy Bose,
lndranil Sen. Maitrayee Ray, PRR of the
Nepal Tourism Board, and several others,

funds were collected funds and handed
over to the Consulate General of Nepal,
Chandra Kumar Ghirnre. Somnath Pyne,
secretary of Freed, an NGO, said the
Nepal Tourism Board had agreed with the
proposal of adopting 20 earthquake-struck
artisan families of Bhaktapur. There is a

plan to organise an exhibition in
September where Nepalese artisans will be
united to display their handicrafts forsale
’ ’ रच-नार-पना-चन्द्र

and thus create an alternative format
of fundraising. Also, the Alliance Francaise
du Bengal has shown an interest in and
support for the initiative. The presence of
their representatives at the concert left
positive vibes. But the soulful renderings
by the maestros remained the best part of
the event and a packed auditorium kept
asking for more.

Pioneering work
In this era of pseudo modernism, one was
pleasantly surprised to ﬁnd agrand event
to mark 150 years of one of the most
revered Kali temples of Kolkata, a city
whose name originated front the word
“Kali-kshetra". The Nistarini Kali Temple
Dance Concert was presented by
Gaudiya Nritya Bharati under
,
the stewardship of Professor हैं A, ^_
Mahua Mukherjee,
.
“fountainhead” of the Gaudiya
dance of Bengal With an MSc
and PhD in Botany, she is a
researcher and teacher at Rabindra
Bharati Universityand dean of the

words like “Nritya-Geet" or “Naach—Gaan"
indicate that dance enjoyed a higher place
than music in Bengal once. This needs to
be investigated further.
The dance concert, spread over two
days (5 and 4July) at lCCR‘s Satyajit Ray
Auditorium, however, turned out to be a

kaleidoscope of varied forms like Goudiya
Nritya (performance and direction: Mahua
Mukherjee, codirection: Satabdi Acharya
and Banani Chaluaborty; music composed
byAmitava Mukherjee, Ayan Mukherjee
and Shubhadip Chakraborty), Odissi
(composed by Sharmila Biswas and
presented by her group), Kathakali (by
Kalamandalam Goutam), Bharatanatyam
(Abhay Pal), Kathak (Paramita Maitra) and
Kandyan Dance (Buddhi Edirisinghe).
Almost all items stood out for their
inspired presentation and neat

choreographic
designs.

._ , श्याज्जक्याब्जामृफ़च्चद्ररु urging. ३४ १८ m.

The evening remained focused on
Odissi dance items starting with Ganesh
Tandava —An ode to Shri Ganesha,
describing his wonderful form and glory.
He was depicted asEleadantam,
Mahakaayam and Gajanan withpaasba,
ankusha, module in three of his hands and
blessing the world with the other Anklets
adorning his feet, he danced chaan's,
bbramaris, in joy, to the rhythm of the
mardala. He was shown in typical Odissi
postures (sthanakas and bbangis). Based

on Taalmalﬂea and framed in the
distinguished style of the late Guru Deba
Prasad Das (the composer and a
representative of Gotipua Odissi culture),
this piece was a visual delight. This was
choreographed by Krishnendu Roy.
Next was Shringaar Pallavi, a pure dance
item in which raga Mohmza is elaborated
through music, body postures and intricate
footwork, all commencing
slowly and
gracefully

in the state of imagination. This
adaptation, tried out by Nikkon, was
completely based on the basic steps of

Odissi — Chaulea and Tiibbangi‘. The card-

24july: Geeta Bithika Academy of Music

characters showed the rigidity of Chauka
and the Prince and his friend, the two

and Dance organises an evening
of Monsoon Melodies, featuring Sohini
Roy Chowdhury (classical vocal) with Suiit
Saha (tabla) and Pradip Palit
(harmonium), Asish Kumar Sengupta with
his disciples (Rabindrasangeet) and
Hridayieet (Bbujun); Birla Academy; ही pm.
26 July: Calcutta School of Music presents
Pandit Mohan Singh (vocal) with Biplab
Mondal (tabla-pakbuu'uj). Abir Singh
(harmonium). Sanjeeban Achanja
(manjeera): Sandre Hall; 650 pm.
30-311uly: \Xieavers Studio Centre For The
Arts and Master Minds orgzmue "Meta
Woh Marlab Nahtn Tim“. a Hindi play
starring Anupam Kher and Net-nu (iuptu
presented by Rakein Bedi: Sangeet
Kalarnandir; ‘ pm"; for [lL‘l\t‘IS.
contact 9850014453

Coming up

24July: Sagaiika Music launches

दृ g ;
A kalledoscope of Kathakali-Gaudlya-Odlssl.
५

,ﬁ’

Desb. Inspired by Lewis Carroll‘s Alice in
Wonderland, it represents a nation liting

cards later tear their masks 03to celebrate

८ t .

टु.

and culminating in a crescendo.
Composed by Guru Poushali Mukheriee,
this, too, was choreographed by Roy.
Then there were two captivating dance
dramas. The ﬁrst. based on Oscar Wilde‘s
Selfish Giant, featured the tiny tots of
Nikkon in its Bengali version, “Hingshute
Doityo". The pre-recorded music was the
most interesting aspect of this delightful
presentation. The other one was Tracker

the breaking of rules. The emotive appeal
of this change was very touching.
As is their ritual, Nikkon felicitated
eminent dancers Guru Anita Mallick, Guru
Asimbandhu Bhattacharya Guru Poushali
Mukherjee and Dr Pushpita Mukheriee.

१

a £231?

हैं.
gr

Rabindra Sadan.

human beings, used the other ﬂowing

v ड्डाका". 'क्षणन्गगृन्त्रदृ

दृ

Young Odissi exponent and Guru
Krishnendu Roy conunands unbridled
commendations for his indefatigable elfort
to make the Garden Reach area a hub of
dance. Each year, his organization, Ganden
Reach Nikkon Orissi Centre, presents a
captivating show featuring his students
from the junior, middle and senior groups.
This year was no exception and the day
was 5 July and the venue a packed

steps and movements of the dance. The

r ,. g ४२५११'

९

Annual fest

faculty of ﬁne arts. She had 111111,
learnt Bharatanaryam and her extensive
research work under the guidance of
gurus like Bratindranath, Sashi Mahato,
Narottam Sanyal, Gambhir Singh Mudha1
Mukund Das Bhattacharya and other
practitioners of the Chhau, Nachni, Kushan
and 1011)11, traditions styled her as an
exponent of Gaudiya Nritya.

g. ,८

mena barterjee
admires the dedication

“Samanwaya”, a new album of Bengali
songs based on mgas, composed and
sung by classical vocalist Koushik

Bhattacharya along with Sourabh; Calcutta
Press Club; 4 pm.

