Name of the Group

:

Trimurti, Jaipur

Name of the Director

:

Raj u Kurnar

Name of the Play
Name of the Playwright
Language of the Play
Duration

:
:
:
:

Commerce in Theatre
Sandeep Sethi
Hindi
1 hrs. 40 min.

About the Play
‘Ek ma ke dono lal ek dossre se khafA, Tiranga or hirva ko kyon na de hum milA

With these touching lines, the students of St. Anselms Pink City School complete there prayer to all mankind to stop
any sort of war situation to let the lndian’s and the Pakistani ’5 to be one. One can understand the need of peace around
but the students have gone a step forward and wished for both countries to be one and prepare a new flat, this scene
managed to get the maximum applause. , Some parents seated, commented as to changing a flag was not correct to
which Abhimanyu a student of 12‘h politely said — “it‘s a dream, a creative imagination. Why can’t we hope for this”?
The soulful number sung by Meha, Ancy and Prapti not only brought t ears to the eyes b u't also was able to o ffer
solution to the problems. This was a part of the 3rd production of the School, Commerce in Theatre and the subject
being taught was Economics. Demand, supply and price determination, How with the partition the pries of the jute
went up, the effect of the 1947 on food prices and cotton. This tir'n‘e‘We decided to take more challenging topics, hence
we have tried to convert subjects like mathematics, business studies, economics, accountancy, entrepreneurship and
computers said the principle Fr. Edward Olivera. Ashish and Akshay who played the characters Munnabhai and
Circuit to its perfection displayed excellent chemistry in their roles — Munnabhai was learning probability, permutations
and combinations from Circuit, the music, and dance steps with jokes made the most difficult concept simple enough
for a layman. The play was ready in 19 days but the children worked round the clock from 7.00 am to 7.00 pm shared
RAJU. Entrepreneurship was shown by the opportunities created by the river and how man did not let women enter in
the ﬁeld of entrepreneurship. With the 5 elements of nature dance, the empowerment of women was depicted and the
local women entrepreneurs were introduced … Lila Bordia, Kulsum Malik, Mohini Bakshi and Faith Singh- their
struggle and vision which are the characteristics of the subject weaved in between were the questions regarding the sex
ratio and exploitation of girl child. The character from the famous popular TV serial “Jassi Jaisi koi nahi”'helped her
organization Gulrnohar to understandithe principles of Fayol and Taylor related to the business studies subject “we had
fun doing this chapter with these characters and we were able to apply all the principles of management in this scene,”
shared Diksha and Surbhi who played the role of Jassi and Pari to a perfect 'I‘.

समूह का नाम
निदेशक

त्रिमूर्ति जयपुर
राजू कुमार

नाटक का नाम
भाषा
अधि

वाणिज्य ध्येटर में
हिन्दी/हंग्लिश
1 घम्नटा 40 मिनट

नाटक के बारे में ,

ये नाटक कक्षा 11वीं तथा 12 वीं (वाणिज्य) में पढाये जाने वाले पॉच विषयों को लेकर आगे बढता
है I वप्रउनोंफी, वाणिज्य, अर्थशास्त्र, गणित नियंत्रणा नाटक की शुरूअस्त में छात्र जो कि

विद्यालय में ऊबते हैं नाटक द्वारा पढाए जाने से उत्साहित हो पाते हैं । मंच पर मैनेजमेंट के
सिद्धांत, टीवी. पर प्रसिद्ध धारावाहिक के किरदार जस्सी द्वारा, गणित के फार्मूले, फिल्म मुन्जाभाई
एमबीबीएस कं पात्रों मुन्माभाई और सर्किट द्वारा अत्लाउनोंफी के सिद्धांत, देवदास के सैट' पर
सिखाये जाते हैं। वैंक द्वारा दी जाने वाली की सुविधाओं और शर्तों को संगीत की शब्दावली तथा
शैली के माध्यम से में एड्स तथा पानी की समरथा जैसे विषयों से जोडा गया। अर्थशास्त्र में,
स्वतंत्रता पूर्व के समय, को बँटवारे को, जूट तथा कपास के संदर्भ में माँग व आपूर्ति, दोनों देशों के
बीर शांति प्रयासो को ध्यान है लावा गया है!

rह्या/-८७५८ . : ८.८... ... . .

~ ' 3 . पृ

0,

थू r.

._

i ५.... “a...“

,

i
i
I

_ 13W"; MR1? कुठे… क्या'

v.

