As the news of the appearance of this "Comet" in the cultural horizon of the
capital spread, we were taking our first steps. We thought our hopes may be belied and
fears may turn out to be true. But, as luck would have it, our hopes were not belied and
our fears did not turn out to be true. The very first production during the Pujas, TATlNlR
BICHAR brought laurels to us. It was adjudged the Best Production and l bagged the Best
Actor award. PeOple, the theatre-lovers, who frowned upon us, changed their attitude; we
became doubly sure that we were capable of doing things pe0ple never expected of us.
Our joy knew no bounds. We decided on a repeat performance at the YMCA Massey Hall.
Unlike the Puja show, when we had male donning the female attire, this time we had
female artistes for the female roles.
That was the first ever mixed-cast production of
Chena Mahal. My hat's off to Meera and Shikha as also to Swagata Nandi and Meera
Ghosh who braved the criticism of jointly acting with male counterparts. Today, when
mixed-cast productions are natural, I pay my respectful regards to the foursome for their
cooperation and devotion.

Prior to this repeat performance, Akshoy wrote a one-act play, SATISH MASTER,
and we staged it.

lncessant rain during the Puja days in 1956 washed out the mirth
Though well prepared we could not stage KANKABATIR GHAT.

of the festival.

It was only during the

Kali Puja that we put up the play. In August 1957 we attempted Sarat Chandra. But
PARINEETA at the Talkatora Theatre proved a failure. In fact, PARINEETA is one of those
productions of Chena Mahal that did not click. Others being ANDHA PRITHIVI (1961)
BISARJAN (1966), PRAJAPATI (1969) and PHAND (1971).

This failure did not daunt us, and during the Puja days we staged two one-act
plays, SANYASI and BHARATE CHAI, and a full-length one KERANEER JIBON. The last
was awarded the Best Production prize and I was adjudged the Best Actor.

The year 1958 saw two productions, SWIKRlTl and DAANT (a short play). .
MAYA-MRIGA was staged during the Pujas in 1959 and this had two repeat performances
at the YWCA Constantia Hall. And in the year 1960 Chena Mahal produced two of its
best plays, EK PEYALA COFFEE which was first staged at the YMCA Massey Hall and then
was repeated during the Pujas and is remembered even now, and SHATATAMA RAJA—
N EER ABHlNOY, which was staged at the Fine Arts Theatre as an entry in the Winter Drama
Festival organised by the Delhi Natya Sangh. This was awarded the Best Playwright’s
prize. Incidentally, Ramen Lahiri of Calcutta happens to be the writer of this play.
Two repeat performances of SHATATAMA RAJANEER ABHlNOY were held in
1961, followed by AAR HOBEY NAA DERI at the Fine Arts Theatre during the Winter
Drama Festival. Our Prosanto Banerjea was adjudged the Best Actor in the regional Ian-

