PATHER DABI was staged at the Fine Arts Theatre in 1976.

And,

yet another

award-winning play, ANAMNl AN,GANA, was staged at the Bengalee Club One-Act Drama
Competition. Uma Bit was adjudged the Best Actress. JHUM U R was staged at the
Karol Bagh Bangiya Sarnsad Annual Mela in 1977, At the Bangiya Sanskritik Sarnrnilani
Competition in Chandigarh at Tagore Theatre JHUMUR was repeated, which was adjud- ged the Second Best Production. Amar Hore was awarded the Second Best Director
prize. While Menoka Mitra was the Second Best Actress, Jagannath Banerjee was declared the Third Best Actor. It was staged at the Allahabad Competition and was awarded a
Certificate of Merit in Production and Menoka Mitra was awarded a Merit Certificate. In
1978 J HUMUR was adjudged the Best Production and Arnar Hore was awarded the
Second Best Director prize at the Bangiya Parishad, Kanpur All-India One-Act Drama Corn-

petition.

Samar Chakraborty won the Best Supporting Actor prize.

JANANl was staged

at the Bangiya Sarnsad Annual Mela and was repeated at the Allahabad Competition.
won a Merit Certificate for Production and Urna Bit was awarded a Certificate of Merit.

It

In the current year Chena Mahal has staged SARISRIP at the Bangiya Sarnsad

Annual Mela and it is now celebrating its "Silver Jubilee" with the staging of NATYAKARER SANDHANEY and BARDHAMANER BAAR BORISHALER KONEY.
Between 1973 and 1979 Chena Mahal has presented quite a few JATRA shows.
But that is altogether a different story.

This long list of plays staged by us may appear superfluous and repetitive to many,
glorious
but for me it represents the onward march of Chena Mahal. On the edifice of this
As for me, these twenty-five years have been years of
heritage will the future be built.
most intricate of
gaining experience and learning, years of teaching scores of artistes the
theatre, I have the
arts. In my effort to bring about a change in the approach towards the
ted with me;
statisfaction of having contributed my mite. My friends have always coopera
become a legend.
their sincerity and devotion, love for theatre and selfless work for it have
Chena Mahal has set an example to emulate.

plantThis “Silver Jubilee" for me is an occasion of rejoicing, for the sapling I had
then, has braved all the stressed twenty-five years ago, and tended with loving care since
beneath its soothing shade, there
es and storms and has groomed into a big tree. As I sit
worked for us and have left for their
flies past across my mind's eye those who sincerely
a joy this day would have brought I
heavenly abode. There were many, many of them. What

to them had they been with us.

this
Alas ! that was not to be ....... .. I have lived through

den Jubilee" will be celebrated during my
"Silver Jubilee", who knows whether the “Gol
lifetime or not.

few names but for whom Chena
Before I conclude. I cannot help rnentoning a
ver I have achieved in my life, I owe to
Mahal would not have been what it is today. Whate

