from one generation to thene.\tso thatthe bookwhich
was readby the father should
be liked by their children and their grand--children. I think this is what it means to

"remain in literature. ”
I Iowever high might be the praise of the book by critics, however large rrriglrt be its
reading public. there still remains a natural and traditional phenomenon such as the
reactrorr of children rebelling against the tastes of their parents. But there are,
' nevertheless. books which are read by the fathers, children and grand-children. That
is important.

Q. Each generation seeks in a book an echo of its ideas. Perhaps it is for this reason the
critics exist?
GGM [Inforturrately I only know the View point of the critics and that of the
enlightened readers. But the author never gets to know the reactions of the ordinary
reader. That is so, ﬁrstly, because the reader does not summon up courage to express
it. It is also , due to another awful factor - the distance that is created by fame.
Sometimes when my wife. Mercedez and myself are alone at home in the evening we
want to be invited out. We have masses of friends, but none of them invites us because
they feel that on that particular evening we must be attending hundreds of formal
banquets. So at times you ﬁnd yourself in total isolation. That is a loneliness
fame brings in its wake and it bears a striking resemblance to the loneliness which is
brought about by power.
Q. What about the readers' letters?
GGM The readers either ask for an autograph or else they are defending their '
diploma work or PhD. thesis based on my creative writings and want to ask
questions. Or else. there are love letters. Mercedez has an enmrous collection of

such letters though, of course, she has not let me answer them. But mind you, she
keeps them all.
What comes in the way of contact between the writer and the reader is
unfortunately the latter's inhibition. It is true that a lot of readers did write and tell me
that the story of One Hundred Years of Solitude was their family's story. Agreed. It
is not surprising to hear this from people living in the Carribbean or from those in

Latin America, in short from a Latin. But one day I received a letter from a German
woman living in
sonre place in Germany in the mountains. I forget their name. And shesaid that One
Hundred Years of Solitude was the story 01 her family and Macondors her village.

I

t
l

l

I
And this explains why I vehemently oppose a 1111 being made on One Hundred i।
Years of Solitude. I was always against it but in the meanwhile directors. especially .
from the USA. are trying their leV'el best to do just that. 'Ihey haVe given rue no peace
and keep offering a higher and higher price. In the beginning. about twelve years
ago, I was compelled to say that permission 101' a ﬁlm version of the novel would
cost a million dollars. The directors immediately beat a retreat. A little later they
were 1 early to pay that million so we raised the anrount to two million. But now they
are already ot‘t‘ering three. '1 he real reason for my being against a tilm adaptation is

l।
li

that I want each person to have his own concept of the heroes of One Hundred
Years of Solitude. I would like it if one reader saw in Ursula his grandmother.
wherweas for another s he might be like his sister. Each reader should create his own
images while reading the book \Vhereas on the screen. each character has a particular
I think that this can disappoint people. In any case. I do J
but“
’Iflc‘e‘; I rrrightbe wrong

l

