Director '3 Note
Prasanna
Since I am directing my own play, I do not have much to say as the director of this Play. As a playwright it is even
worse to talk about one's own work. So let me just talk about what made me write this play.
Bharatendu, the nineteenth century Hindi Playwright, Strindberg, the Swedish Playwright of about the same
time, and Samsa, an early twentieth Century Kannada Playwright, are three personalities I have liked a great deal.
I like their huge talent, their shameless arrogance and their eccentricity. Samsa and Strindberg infact, went through
mental disturbances as well. Added to this is my fascination with the city of Kashi. Kashi is more eccentric than
any individual can ever be.
I kept going back to Kashi, and to Bharatendu. I visited Kale Harakchand Ki Devdi, the ancestral home of
Bharatendu. I saw his artifacts and his photographs. Bharatendu was one of the first to get hold of a camera. I can
still picture those amazing photographs that Bharatendu took of call girls and of himself. I was reminded of one
other set of pictures I had seen earlier. These were pictures of nude men; nude, ugly, hairy, fat men. They were
taken by Edward Munch the norweigian painter, Strindberg and a few others. They Were pictures of themselves.
These were not homosexual men, nor were they celebrating their own bodies. Those bodies had very little to
celebrate upon. They were pictures of their own inner self thrown open.
Bharatendu was not just those brazen pictures. Unlike Strindberg, Bharatendu still had faith. The faithful and
the doubtful in Bharatendu lived side by side. He was one of the last of Bhakti Poets and the first to construct a
contemporary prose. And then there is death. Bharatendu died young, so did his father, so did his mother.
Death in Kashi is not like death elsewhere. What more does one need to construct a play? In this play I have used
an architype. The architype of playing dice with death. It is an architype available in various folk tales. It is also
the same architype used by Burgman in one ofhis films. Long ago I was invited by Shree Ram Centre Repertory
to direct a play. I began writing this play then. But the process got interrupted by an actual death. I completed
writing this play in Kannada, much later at
Neenasarn at H eggodu in Karnataka. I
published it in the year 2000. It has now come
back to Hindi in translation.
This play, in a way, is my tribute to the language
oinndi. I have a strange love—hate relationship
with‘Hindi. I do not like the so called official
language, Hindi. But then Hindi as I know feels

equally stiﬂed by the official language policy. I
like Hindi. It is easy going and yet sophisticated.
I have as many friends amongst Hindi writers
as I have amongst Kannada writers.

