National School of Drama Repertory Company

1964—65 on an experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi.

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in
1992-93 on his twentieth death anniversary through

In the beginning, it consisted of only four actors. It

a major festival of his plays.

later expanded into a larger group ofactors, musicians

Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisring of photographs,
set models, costumes, properties posters etc. of
Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in

and technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of the

National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964 late Shri
Om Shivpuri led the company and later in 1977,
Shri Manohar Singh became the first regular Chief

the occasion of the Silver jubilee celebration of the
Company.

of Repertory. When Manohar Singh left the
Repertory Company in 1985, for a short period Ms.
Uttara Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked after

the functioning of the company. Later Shri ].N.
Kaushal officiated as the chief till 1988. From 1989

to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj was handling the
company. From 1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal was again
functioning as acting Chief. From 1999 NSD.
graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma appointed as permanent
chief of the Repertory Company.
Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety

Business Manager

Technical Director - Lighting

Rarnkishan

G.S. Marathe

of plays ranging from stylised musicals to realistic
Stage Manager

Parag Sarrnah

contemporary works of Indian drama to translations
Sound Technician

S.N . Das Gupta

and adaptations of foreign languages plays. Eminent
Music lncharge

Om Prakash

directors of national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have worked with the

Costume lncharge

Gursharan Kaur

company.

Workshop lncharge

Abdul Hakim

Box Office lncharge

S.P. Sharrna

Repertory has performed over hundred and thirty five
plays by eighty five playwrights and has worked with
sixty directors. Quite a few of the actors of the
company have emerged, over the years, as celebrities
in theatre, cinema and television in India. The
Repertory tours extensively all over India and has
made several successful trips of Germany, Poland,
Britain, N epal and Mauritius.

Neelarn Kapoor
S. R. Yadav
T.R. Bhatt

Ayodhya Prasad
Repertory Chiet
Director NSD

Suresh Shanna
Prof. D.R. Ankur

