WARDBE
A 1990 S
GOVERDHAN
H. PANCHAL

SA'I‘YADEV DUBEY
Goverdhan H.Panchal,

born July 21, 1913, is an
important personality in
Indian Theatre
Architecture. He groomed
himself at the feet of
legendary Nandalal Bose
and acquired a Diploma in Painting. He had also the distinction
of performing in Chitrangada in the presence of Rabindranath
Tagore. Shri Panchal has rendered his services as an Asst.
Professor in Scenic Design to the National School of Drama.
His research in ancient Sanskrit Theatre of Bharata and the
medieval Sanskrit Theatre Tradition of Kerala has been
signiﬁcant and his designs for nearly 70 prestigious productions
in Bombay, Delhi and Ahmedabad speak for his Scenographic
excellence. He was technical adviser to Attenborough for his
Film Gandhi and some of his important books are RasAne
Garba (folk dance of Gujarat) and Manipuri Nartan. He
received the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1985-

Satyadev Dubey, born
March 19, 1963, in
Bilaspur, is a leading
theatre personality
of our country. Director
and Script-writer of
a number of ﬁlms and also a playwright, Shri Dubey has
contributed most to Indian theatre as a director. Winner of
Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Theatre Direction in 1972,
with many more prestigious awards to follow, Shri Dubey has
worked with most major contemporary playwrights, and
directed many a theatre-stalwart of our country from Bombay,
Calcutta and Delhi—in his productions. For his eminent
contribution to the ﬁeld of Indian theatre, NANDIKAR feels
honoured in honouring Satyadev Dubey.

For his eminent contribution to the ﬁeld of Indian Theatre,

NANDIKAR feels honoured in honouring Goverdhan H.Panchal.

BHASKAR
CHANDRAVARKAR
Bhaskar Chandravarkar is

SHYAMANAND JALAN
Shyarnanand Jalan, born
January 13, 1934, has been

a leading theatre
personality in this State serving Hindi theatre in Calcutta. His
productions of Asadh Ka Ek Din by Mohan Rakesh and Badal
Sircar’s Evam Indrajit and Pagla Ghora drew wide acclaim.

Among his other major directorial works are Shuturmurg,
Tendulkar’s Gidhade and Sakharam Binder; Brecht’s The Good
Woman ofSetzuan and Mohan Rakesh’s Adhe Adhurey. A
director of varied and venturesorne output, Shyarnanand Jalan
is noted for his 1963 Production of Chhapte Chhapte in the
arena style. He was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi
Award for Direction in 1973. For his eminent contribution to
the ﬁeld of Indian Theatre, NANDIKAR feels honoured in

honouring Shyarnanand Jalan.

at once a Sitarist, Teacher
and Composer of Music,
Writer and Film-Maker. He has been composing music for
avant garde, amateur and commercial plays since 1960, some of
them being Sharvilak, directed by Bansi Kaul and Mahashanti
directed by Fritz Bennewitz. He received the Sangeet Natak
Akademi Award for creative and experimental music in 1989.
His music in Ghasiram Kotwal served as a break-through for the
then stagnated Stage-Music in Maharashtra and has been
considered by the theatre-fraternity to be a landmark in Indian
Theatre-Music. Presently Emeritus Producer for Doordarshan
and Akashvani, Shri Chandravarkar wrote the story and scored
the music for the Ballet Swapna Kosh which was presented by
different groups of Bhopal, Pune and Delhi. For his eminent
contribution to the ﬁeld of Indian theatre, NANDIKAR feels
honoured in honouring Bhaskar Chandravarkar.

