I951
Performed in Shoroshi for the Russian
delegation led by Pudovkin and Cherkasov.

1 954

.4 \ ( 'lmmlm m "Shm/Inll. x/m

Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Louis Casson
\t dlCll lll\ performance of .‘lln‘hael .Iladhusudan.
l 956
final performance at Sri Rangam on 34th January
in (llfhll Ghosh‘s Prafullu.

1 959
Reicch the Padma Bhusan. .—\cts for the final
occasion on th and l0lll May in Alamgir and
Ri/mzulo Natal respectively
30m .luneiDealh around 1 am
I’rc'munk ur Aurarrhi and Sisirkumur

Narcndru Dob, Sisirkumar and Premankur A war/hi

Ax (‘hunukyr’a in "(‘lmmlmgupln"

THE GREAT OF OUR AGE COMPLIMENTS THE GREAT OF THE PRECEDING

Saran/tundra and SmrA "आशा" u/h'r त्मा
per/Oman“ l' of ' 'Bi/u | 11 ”

SOMBHU MITRA ON SISIRKUMAR
Whenever something significant happens,
we at once desire to frame it in words.
For. our emotion in their turbulence

seem so unknown and fermenting, we
are never at peace unless we size it up in
terms of known words and frames.
Hence, we may say an era has ended

wrth Sisirkumar’s departure —or
Emperor Alarngir has made his exit —or
we may say the Bharata of our age has
departed.
But do all these really add up to the
truth? The person I knew was not a
mere definition; a few choice epithets do
not absolve us of our debts. He was no
two-dimensional, bloodless picture
drawn by a second-rate painter —the

name Sisirkurnar Bhaduri spells a fullblooded complete man compounded of
multiple complexities. As Nadir Shah in
Digbijoyee, he would say, “I am richer
than your imagination, greater than your
ideal, I will always burst beyond your
narrow frame.”
..... Unless I had witnessed the scene
where Nadir Shah was perpetrating the
destruction of Delhi in Digbijoyee, I
could have never conceived the opening
scene of Nabanna.
I also learnt from Sisir Babu how to
delete, edit and rehash a play. A case in
point is A lamgir— the text and its
difference front the production. We all
learnt how the text, the decor, acting,

sound and all other elements would
coalesce into a whole. He was our first

Director—tire first Director in Bengal,
perhaps as I can see it, in India. who
could fuse lights, sets, acting into an

organic whole.
...... For days on and from the wings I
watched him perform and wondered
how one human being could contain so
much vitality ! I want to clarify :
naturalistic acting has never inspired me.
A great man with sorrow or profound
emotion has always enchanted me.
When the character is lesser or simpler
than the actor, we never get the flashes of
brilliance which make acting memorable.
This profoundness of feeling and emotion

demands Herculean vitality from the
actor. Both body and mind have to
operate with unflagging concentration.
To keep this concentration sharp-focussed.
demands of both physical and mental energy
of a super-human kind are made and
these are in evidence in all the great works
of great artistes. Poor is he who hasn‘t
watched this vitality in Sisirkumar.
Sisirkurnar metamorphosed the theatre of
his age. If we could do the same to our
contemporary theatre, that would be our
best homage to Sisirkumar.
Sisirkumar as Michael and Muran'
Bhadury as Reverend Barter/be in
'Michael ''

‘

