TUESDAY 6 MARCH, 6.00 PM: MEGHDOOT THEATRE-ll, COPERNICUS MARG

Play (Solo)
Kamab/Jaram
by KRIS HNAN KALADHARAN NAIR
Produced by Rasika, Kerala

Accompanied by
Shivamohan Thampi (Percussion)

KJ. Joseph (Percussion)
K.N. Nambuthiri (Playback)
S. Radhakrishnan (Lights)

KRI SH NAN
KALADHARAN NAIR

Parameswaran Kutty (Stage Decor & Assistance)

Reghuvaran (Percussion/Make-up/Costume)

की
Synopsis

Isza/a/Jaram dramatizes a stirring episode from the Great
Indian, 7716Maka/9/Jarata. Composed by Mahakavi Bhasa

Shri Krishnan Kaladharan Nair
was born in 1950 in

Neyyattinkara town in Kerala.
A commerce graduate, he
received a basic training in
traditional theatrical forms of

more than 1 5 00 years ago, it focusses on Karna, the tragic

Kerala such as Kathakali,
Ottanthullal, Velakali, and the

hero, at a crucial moment ofhis eventful life.

martial art of Kalaripayattu. In

The play begins on the eve ofhis being elevated as the
commander of the Kaurava army. Caught in the web of
conflicting emotions, he is crestfallen. Memories ﬂash across his
mind and voices from the past haunt him adding to his agony.

the mid-19605 he was
attracted to the amateur

theatre in Malayalam, and
after a decade with various

groups joined the Sopanarn

On the one side it is his mother, Kunti, pleading him to spare
Arjuna, his brother, in the ensuring battle while on the other,
his Guru Parashurama cursing him for being a Kshatriya. He
however gathers courage and tides over his mental crisis.

repertory at
Thiruvananthapuram in 1975.

It is then that Indra approaches him disguised as a Brahmin

roles in Sanskrit and

and begs for his divine kavac/Ja kmza’ala (armour and earrings).

Malayalam plays produced by

Charitable to the hilt, Kama parts with his God-given gifts.
Realizing that the supreme renunciation marks the end ofhis
existence, he bids Salyan, his charioteer, to ride him on to the
Kurukshethra battle field.

Actor’s Note

It was in 1984 that I first enacted the role of Karna in Basa’s
Kamab/Jaram, presented by Sopanarn, 'I‘hiruvananthapuram.
The detailed discussions and rigorous rehearsals we had,
enabled me to probe the unique personality of the great
warrior and portray it with a certain degree ofconviction.
I have presented a host ofcharacters, both classical and
contemporary on the stage. B ut never have I come across such
a protagonist ofimrnense physical and mental prowess as
24

Since the late 19705, Shri

Kaladharan has played leading

Sopanarn, some ofwhich have
been featured in international
arts events such as the
Festivals of India in the United
Kingdom, the former Soviet

Union, Japan, and Greece.
These plays include Bhasa’s
Mad/ayama Vyayogam ( 1 979)
and Kamab/Jaram (1984), and
Kalidas’s Ska/eanta/am (1980),

all directed by Kavalam
Narayana Panikkar. The
latter’s plays Avaizavan
Kadamba directed by G.
Aravindan ( 1975), Ottayaiz
(1977) and Karimkutty (1983)

directed by the playwright

