Kama. Disowned by his Guru for being a Kshathriya and
disgraced by his own kinsmen, he is confronted by eternal
values ofethics, but upholds the noblest traits ofchivalry and
charity to the end.

himself, Kalanat/aemi (1987),
and Kai/ekutmppadu ( 1 989);
Sardar K. M. Panikkar’s

Torn between his mother Kunti’s ardent plea not to kill his

and Prappz'dzyan (2001) and
Bali (2005), which Shri
Kaladharan himself wrote and

brother, una, and his Guru, Sage I’arasurama’s fatal curse,

Kama emerges as a tragic hero, passionate and poignant. It
takes the highest degree ofarticulative calibre to portray such a
character oftragic intensity. My two-year experience with
Footsban Theatre, France, stood me in good stead as I took up
the challenge once again when Kamab/Jamm was being
performed under the auspices of Rasika.
Every genuine enactment involves elements of improvisation

and interpretation. On my part, I have to identify aspects of
my dilemmas, those ofrnodern man to be precise, in
confrontation with existential constrains. Blessed and
condemned at the same time, Kama epitomized the agony and
anguish ofevery man at war with himself and his fate.
The Ekaharya (single—actor) style added to my challenge, for I
had to alter my accent, pace, pitch and posture to suit the

subsidiary roles as well. While Karna is all (air and fire), the
other characters too are ofepic dimensions.

I adopted elements from classical arts like Koodiyattarn and
Kathakali, folk and ritual arts like Theyyarn, Padayani and
Ottanthullal and Kalarippayattu, the martial art of Kerala.

B/az'sbma directed by Kavalam
Narayana I’anikkar (1994);

directed are other productions
in which his work as an actor
has been much acclaimed. He
has worked with the Footbarn
Theatre in France for two

years, enacting the lead role of
Odysseus in a production of
Homer’s Odyssey which
travelled all over France,
England, Ireland, Columbia,

Spain, and India in the mid1 9 9 0s .

Shri Kaladharan founded the
Rasika Arts and Cultural
Society in
Thiruvananthapurarn in 1986
and has written and directed
several plays for the group. He
has developed a voice—training
method for actors and has
participated in theatre
workshops all over India and
Europe.

25

