TUESDAY 6 MARCH, 7.30 PM: MEGHDOOT THEATRE, COPERNICUS MARG

Play in Hindi
Nayanhharz' 72114014
Written by Noor Zaheer
Music and direction by AMITAVA DASGUPTA
Brechtian Mirror, Delhi
—
Synopsis

A small kingdom is ruled by a despotic king. He is busy in his
pursuit ofpleasure and has no consideration for the welfare of
his people. He is corrupt and is always surrounds by corrupt
people. Since the people ofthe kingdom consider the king to
be divine, they do not want to revolt against him.

AMITAVA DASGUPTA

Shri Amitava Dasgupta was
born in 1947 in Pune. A

Once the kingdom faces severe drought which lasts for three
years. A young man who had left his kingdom years ago to
become a Sanyasi returns to find his people suffering from the
drought. He tries to convince the king and his courtiers to
provide some relief to the people, but he fails in his mission. In
an effort to expose the royalty, the Sanyasi makes an
announcement that if the king or any member of the royal
family umps into the well, then the rains will come, and the

dry well will be ﬁJll ofwater.

The Sanyasi knows that the people of the kingdom would
expect this sacrifice from the king or from his family. The
Sanyasi also knows that the king will not want to die; hence,

the king will be exposed. Hearing this, the king makes a plan
by which a member ofhis family will be sacrificed and at the
same time none ofhis blood will be shed. He decides to marry
offhis youngest son, who is mentally retarded, to a poor girl.
Once married into the royal family the poor girl would become
a member of the royal family, and thus can easily be sacrificed.
The king starts searching for a girl, who would marry his son
for money. Finally, he finds a girl, Sukhni, who is forced into
the marriage against her wishes. S ukhni loves a peasant,

Bindhna but her parents do not approve ofher choice. On the
night ofthe marriage, Sukhni learns of the king’s plan and tries
to escape. But she is not allowed to escape by the people who
have been told ofher decision to kill herself to save the people
of the kingdom. She feels trapped!

In the meantime, Bindhna approaches the Sanyasi and informs
him of misfortune and how his beloved is being forced to
fulfill his prophecy. The Sanyasi goes to the king but does not
get an audience. He tries to persuade the people to desist from
supporting the king in his action. But the people now turn
against him. Sukhni is thrown into the well and the miracle is
26

graduate of Calcutta
University, he has taken a

course in theatre direction at
the National School of Drama
in Delhi.

Having worked under eminent
directors such as Ebrahim
Alkazi and Fritz Bennewitz ,
Shri Amitava Dasgupta
established his own theatre
company Brechtian Mirror in
1971 . The group has produced
over forty plays to date
including Euripides’ Iphigem'a
in A ulis and Baechae,
Galsworthy’s The Strife, Manoj
Mitra’s Madhuhanthz' 5472p,
Bankimchandra’s Muehimm
Gm; and Frederic Duranmatt’s

The Physicists. His production
of Brecht's The Resistahle Rise
ofArturo Ui was a successful
amalgamation of Brechtian
theatre with the Jatra form of
Bengal.
With the support of the

Ministry of Culture, Shri
Amitava Dasgupta has worked
for the revival of folk theatre

forms in Jharkhand, West
Bengal, Himachal Pradesh,
and Tamil Nadu. He has also
directed a feature film, Abua
Birsa, on the life of the

