Sangeet Natak Akademi
Sangeet Natak Akademi, India’s National Academy of Music, Dance and Drama, may be regarded as
one product of the process of creation of modern India that led politically to India’s freedom in 1947.
As a public sphere built up in the nineteenth century, together with the movement for self—
determination, the value of the arts received a new acknowledgement in the country. The ephemeral
quality of the arts, and the need for their preservation adapted to a democratic system in which a
common man had the opportunity to learn, practice and propagate was also felt. Within the first few
decades of the twentieth century, public perception of responsibility for both preservation and
development of the arts had started inclining towards the state.
The ﬁrst comprehensive public appeal to government in this direction was made in 1945, when the
Asiatic Society of Bengal submitted a proposal for the creation of a National Cultural Trust consisting
of three academies — an Academy of Dance, Drama, and Music, an Academy of Letters, and an

Academy of Art and Architecture.

The entire question was reconsidered after independence, in a Conference on Art held in Calcutta in
1949, and two Conferences, one on Letters, and the other on Dance, Drama, and Music, held in New

Delhi in 1951. These Conferences convened by the Government of India finally recommended the
creation of three academies — an Academy for Dance, Drama, and Music, an Academy of Letters,

and an Academy of Art.
The National Academy for Dance, Drama, and Music, named Sangeet Natak Akademi, was the first of

these entities to be established by the Government of India. It was created by a resolution of the
Ministry of Education, headed by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the Union Minister of Education,

signed on 31 May 1952. This resolution was subsequently notified in the Gazette ofIndz'a on 7 June
1952. On 28january 1953, Sangeet Natak Akademi was inaugurated by the President of India, Dr
Rajendra Prasad, days after the inauguration of the India’s parliament, the Lok Sabha. Maulana Abul
Kalam Azad, who was directly responsible for the implementation of the Government’s Resolution
to establish the Akademi, stated the purpose of establishing the Akademi:

Of the many questions that pressed for immediate attention after the achievement
of independence, one of the most important was that relating to the revival of
cultural activities. During the last 150 years, the fine arts, whether dance or
drama, music or literature, did not receive the attention or the support they
needed from the State for their full development. It is true that there has been a
renaissance in India since the middle of the nineteenth century, but this was due
to the release of new forces in society and owed little to the State. That is why, it
was not as extensive or deep as it would have been if it had received the
necessary State support . . .
The Indian States, which constituted about a third of India, have, no doubt, in

their own territories played a significant role in supporting and developing these
arts and thus deserve our gratitude, but their effort was not commensurate with
the requirements of the situation. In any case, with the disappearance of the
princely order, the patronage which they extended to the fine arts is also no
longer available. In a democratic regime, the arts can derive their sustenance only
from the people, and the State, as the organized manifestation of the people’s
will, must therefore undertake its maintenance and development as one of [its]
first responsibilities . . .
India’s precious heritage of music, drama and dance is one which we must
cherish and develop. We must do so not only for our own sake but also as our
contribution to the cultural heritage of mankind. Nowhere is it truer than in the
field of art that to sustain means to create. Traditions cannot be preserved but can
only be created afresh. It will be the aim of this Akademi to preserve our
traditions by offering them an institutional form . . .

