The Akademi’s charter of functions contained in the 1952 resolution was expanded along the
original lines in 1961, when Sangeet Natak Akademi was reconstituted by the Government as a

se
The
).
1957
in
d
nde
ame
(as
0
186
of
Act
tion
stra
Regi
s
etie
Soci
the
er
und
ed
ster
regi
and
society
functions are set down in the Akademi’s Memorandum of Association, adopted at its registration as a
society on 1 1 September 1961.
for
ort
supp
of
ture
struc
ied
unif
a
up
ding
buil
rds
towa
ed
work
has
emi
Akad
the
n
ptio
ince
its
e
Sinc
the practice of music, dance and drama in India. This support encompasses traditional and modern

forms, and urban as well as rural environments. The festivals of music, dance and drama presented
or promoted by the Akademi are held all over India. The great masters of the performing arts have
been elected as Fellows of the Akademi. The Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards conferred annually on
eminent artists and scholars are considered the most coveted honours in the field of the performing
arts. Thousands of institutions across the country, including many in the remote areas, engaged in
teaching or promotion of music, dance and theatre have received financial assistance for their work,
from the Akademi, as do researchers, authors and publishers in relevant disciplines.
The extensive recording and filming of the performing arts carried on by the Akademi since its
inception have resulted in a large archive of audio- and video-tape, 16—mm film, photographs and
transparencies, and remains the single most important resource for researchers in the performing
arts of India.

The Akademi’s Gallery of Musical Instruments has a collection of more than 600 instruments of wide
provenance, and has been the source of a great deal of published documentation over the years. The
library of Sangeet Natak Akademi has similarly attracted, and continues to attract, authors, students
and researchers in these disciplines. Sangeet Natale, the Akademi’s journal published since 1965, has
proved to be one of the longest-running periodicals in its own domain, and has published the
original work of both eminent writers as well those less known.
The Akademi also establishes and looks after institutions and projects of national importance in the
performing arts. Chronologically, the Jawaharlal Nehru Manipuri Dance Academy in Imphal, the
premier institution in Manipuri dance and music established in 1954, is the first of these institutions.
In 1959 the Akademi established the National School of Drama and in 1964 the Kathak Kendra, both

being based in Delhi. The Akademi’s ongoing projects of national importance are in Kutiyattam
theatre of Kerala, which commenced in 1991, the project in Chhau dance of Orissa, Jharkhand and
West Bengal which began in 1994, and the project in the Sattriya music, dance, theatre and allied arts
of Assam which started in 2002.

As the apex body specializing in the performing arts, the Akademi also renders advice and assistance
to the Government of India in the task of formulating and implementing policies and projects in the
field. Additionally, the Akademi carries a part of the responsibilities of the state for fostering cultural
contacts between various regions in India, and between India and other countries. The Akademi has
held exhibitions and seminars in Hongkong, Rome, Moscow, Athens, Valladolid, Cairo and
Tashkent. Major festivals of foreign countries like Japan, Germany and Russia have ‘been presented
by the Akademi.

The Sangeet Natak Akademi is at present an Autonomous Body of the Ministry of Tourism and
Culture, Government of India and is fully funded by the Government for implementation of its
schemes and programmes.

। Akademi
NATIONAL ACADEMY F MSIC. DANCE AND DRAM_A
RABINDRA BHAVAN. FEROZE SHAH ROAD. NEW DELHI

