Shoni Chakra’s Last Twenty Four Years
By a strange coincidence, in 1956 a group of young men came to
Delhi from outside by the call of profession. This batch of about a dozen
young men were all strangers here. After office hours they used to meet
sometimes and have discussion over a cup of tea. Although no formal club

was formed yet, they were just a group in themselves. On the eve of
independence day that year, they made a plan to visit Agra. It was during
this journey that the idea struck them—why not form a club instead of
having only a irregular and chance meetings? 30 after returning to Delhi
they formed this club. Since in those days all the offices used to work half
day on all Saturdays, they made it a point to meet atleast every Saturday
evening. The club was appropriately named “Shoni Chakra" (Saturday

Circle).
To begin with, the club used to have regular literary discussions.
A little magazine was also brought out. Some cultural functions were
also organised. However, in 1957 the activity of the club took a new turn.
On the initiative of a few members, we started staging dramas in Bengali.

Shoni Chakra's first drama was ’Amaar Mati"—an adoptation

(by

Brojen Bhaumik} of a short story by Narayan Gangopadhyay. The
shortcomings both of an adoptation by an inexperienced dramatist and
acting by equally new band of artists were out-weighed by sheer enthusiasm.
This drama was followed by ‘Private Employment Exchange' soon after. In
1960 the Kalibari Bengalee Club started the annual One Act Drama Compe-

tition. We participated in 1961 competition. The play chosen was ’Diary'
—an adoptation by Arnar Hore of a short story of Banaphool. This play was
quite appreciated by the public. This initial success soon prompted us to
stage some more new plays. We organised our first public performance at
the NDMC auditorium in early 1962,

During 1961 to 1964 Shoni Chakra staged only short plays.

Some

of them made permanent imprint on public mind like Jhumur, Ghum Nei,
Samudro-O-Manus etc.

