11.133):191:1:10-11
This theatre workshop is very close to my heart. It 's quite a hard/ob to organize such an
event on aprivate level but some how all the hard work becomes/uh, when I am amongst
the students. The age group is very‘flexible and this is one ofthe unique qualities ofour
workshop. The thing which always inspires me to work is the energy which I receive
from my participan ts. I understand the interest ofthe parents in the casting ofth e play
but what [fail to understand is, how I, being a teacher; can favor some one. We always
treat each and every student equally and what ever we do in the workshop is very
democratic. I am grateful to the participants and their parents for their support. I
would like to thank my team who has been always on their toes.
Danish Iqbal

Workshop at a glance
It is the 3rd year of conducting our summer theatre workshop. Our workshop has not left
any stone unturned for getting success and in the end ofthe day it stood up with prosperous
results in the form ofa successful ﬁnal production. There are many challenges that a person
has to face but the toughest one is to bring oneself in front of society in an appealing way, so
it our objective to guide and direct them in fulﬁlling their dreams through their mode of
expression. Our main focus always revolves around the over all enhancement of the
persona of each and every individual through theatre the mode of acting, painting, art and
craft and dance. Behind our workshop it is the hardwork, of the director who being an over
occupied person did all the hard work to sustain the work shop for the development of
soc 1 ety.

For children: as child development is most important aspect for the development of the
whole country, so our workshop focusses on the small children. As they do get time in
summers so the members of SADA arts society emerged with a View of starting theatre for
small kids and the most suitable timing was ﬁxed that was during their summer vacations
.Working with small kids was a challenging task for our workshop but it came up with
successful results. Our Theatre Workshop emphasizes on interaction and the role of
children theatre for the intergrated growth of child, touching upon his /her mental,
emotional, psychological and social growth.

Activities: Our workshop started with the great enthusiasm of the participants and the
faculty members .Our work space was over spilling with energy. We opened our activities
from intro given by the participants. Then we entered the spiritual world by doing Yoga,
deep breathing exercises, meditation in order to take them to the point ofshoonya!
Then we did some body movements, theatre games. Finally the games exhausted them then
came a 15 minute break. The second half was more focussed on acting, public-speaking,
story telling, clay modeling and ofcourse our play practice.

