An mol : (Acting)
He had worked with eminent personalities like Bhishm Sahani, Rahul Da Cunha, Raj it
Kapur, Dr. Mohan Aghase,Abhimanyu Ray,Gautam Kishanchandani,Virat Hussain,
Michael Wood, Yuvraj Sharma, Nadir, Heeba to name a few. He had conducted

workshops with various NGO's and also with schools he had worked in the casting
department of ﬁlms like “Chak De India”, The last warrior”, Anurag Kashyap's
“DevD”. He had directed a short ﬁlm 'ek jali hui cigarette' which won many
international awards. He had also designed productions for D.U. community radio.
Presently he is working on a Broadway musical with KartikeyAmbardar.

Kaifi: (Dance)
He is dancing and making others dance for last 6 years. Kaiﬁ has won many awards on
college levels and also on state level competitions. Worked with Harndard Public
School as a Dance Teacher. He is professionally involved with many schools to act as a
Dance Teacher for their annual and other ﬁinctions. Worked as a Dance Director in a

play by “RANGAYAN”. The Dramatic Society of A.R.S.D College in collaboration
with N . S . D New Delhi, AJAY SHUKLA'S “TAJ MAHAL KA TENDER”

Zeba Danish: (Workshop Manager & Painting Instructor)
Has worked as an assistant director ofthe play “A Midsummer Night's Dream”, “0 My God” and
“Aladdin 2007”. She has also pursued a special course in Manual Image making Pgdcas from
University ofAllahabad. She has been taking the drawing and art and craft classes along with this
she has done her Master's in Psychology that enables her to handle the children in the best
nurturing way. At present along with theatre she is working as a TGT teacher in a well reputed
School ofDelhi.

Bharti: (Junior Batch instructor)
Has acted in many plays like "Tauliye", "Maddhamvyayog", "Mime show". She has
also worked as assistant director for the play "Courtmarshal", "Tajmahal ka Tender", "A
midsummer Night's Dream". She has been working as theatre instructor for Sada Arts
Society for last two years.

Ramji Bali :( Light Designer)
He is a graduate from N . S .D. working in the ﬁeld oflights designing for last many years.
Bali has designed many path breaking plays , latest is Aurangzeb.

