… १ x

?‘

o

Syn0 ps 15
Ali Baba and Gabbar
The Story starts with Ali who is a young boy and wants to explore the world. Every time
when he goes out. he is being stopped by his parents. The reason why his parents. stop him
from going to the jungle is Gabbar. Margina takes shelter in All's house and All is being
teased by his friend that his parents don't love Ali any more because of Margina. All gets
angry and misbehaves with his parents. He ﬁnally goes to jungle and he is very scared.
Fairies come to his rescue and tell him that “walk in the d1rection of the Sun, where there IS

a cave. from the cave he can take treasures and live a happy life". After taking the treasure
and the magical drink Ali returns to his house. Gabbar comes to know that Ali has taken his
treasure. He gets angry and goes to kill Ali. Finally Gabbar gets killed and A11 lives a happy
life with his family.

A Midsummer Nights' Dream
Theseus (the Duke ofAthens) announces he will marry Hippolyta, in four days. He hears
Egeus's complaint that his daughter Hermia refuses to marry his chosen suitor. Demetrius.
since she's in love with Lysander, whom Egeus dislikes. Theseus declares Hermia must
marry Demetrius, or choose between death or joining a nunnery. Lysander instructs
Hermia to ﬂee to the forest with him. Hermia's friend, Helena, learns ofthis and decides to
inform Demetrius, whom she likes. Demetrius, loves Hermia. Helena hopes they will all
meet in the forest. Meanwhile. Quince, Bottom, Flute, Starveling, Snug. and Snout

organize a play to be performed at Theseus's wedding.

In the forest, Oberon (the King ofthe Fairies) argues with Titania (the Fairy Queen) that he
should have her orphan child as his page. Titania obj ects. To obtain the boy. Oberon orders
the fairy Puck to obtain a ﬂower from Cupid that causes on to love the ﬁrst person one sees.
Oberon plans to give it to Titania, so she'll love a vile thing and give him the child.
Demetrius and Helena appear, Helena pursuing him, and he ﬂeeing her. Puck arrives with
the ﬂower and Oberon orders Puck to anoint Demetrius with it so he'll love Helena rather
than Hermia. Oberon then anoints Titania with the ﬂower. In the forest. Lysander and
Hermia lie down to rest. Puck, thinking Lysander is Demetrius. anoints him with the

ﬂower. Helena appears and awakes Lysander, who immediately falls in love with her.

In the forest, Quince theatre company is rehearsing their play. Puck appears and transforms
Bottom to have an ass' (donkey's) head. The actors ﬂee, but Titania awakes and falls in love

with Bottom. Puck observes that Demetrius chases Hermia. yet she accuses him of
murdering Lysander, and realizes he gave the ﬂower to the wrong man. Oberon tries to
remedy this by anointing Lysander with the ﬂower. However. now both men love Helena.
while she believes both are false. Oberon. solves the problem. awakes Titania and
transforms Bottom back to a human. Oberon and Titania then make up. In the woods.
Theseus, Hippolyta, and Egeus appear and awake the four. Demetrius and Lysander inform
the men of their love for Helena and Hermia (respectively). The lords agree to let them
marry. Separately, Bottom awakes and remembers the night's occurrences. At dinner. thev
all watch Quince's company's play and celebrate the mysteries of life.
'
1O

