p ने
२त्आ.प१यय---१सु3) 31:: HI NATYA , SANGH एँब्लिदृड्स
' Delhi Natya 8311811 an organisation primarily devoted to promotion of theatre actiVity
was established in 1950 by a Small band of theatre enthusiasts. They had in view ' two
distinct ro‘es for the Sanghﬂ—wcovordination of theatre activity in the capital afﬁliating to it
all the groups working in the ﬁeld and to eStablish an Academy for imparting instruction
and training in various branches of drama to i'yol'ungmen and women. The inauguration of

Delhi Natya. Sangh was performed by the lac“ President Dr.,Rajer1dra Prasad' on' IstSeplember, 1950, Dr, B. V. Keskar was the ﬁrst President of the Sangh.
The Sangh has stood up to the expectation of its founders. _ Since 1951 almost all
important theatre groups of the capital have sought afﬁliation With theiisaﬁgéli’.. The number
of these groups, pertaining to various languages like English, Hindi, Punjabi, Bengali and
Telugu, stands presently at 34-. To integrate their activities .the,Sangrh has been organising,
in the past, wCompetitions and Festivals of plays every year.
Over 200 performances of
various plays were given under the auspices of the Sangh in its Drama Competitions and

Festivals ‘ during the ﬁrst 15 years of its life.
production _ best actor, best stagecraft, etc.

Prizes have been awarded for the best

In these Competitions and Festivals apart from

regional language theatre groups, like U.K, HIGH~ “Commission ADC, y and American
Theatre Association have also taken part. Thus, the Sangh become the H rallying point for है
active theatre groups representing various languages.

Apart from the above, the" S'arlgh has been sponsoring outside programmes independently and in collaboration with other organisations, such , as .,:——
‘ '

— Railway Cententary Cultural Festival. 7

— National Drama Festival.

.In this festival theatre groups from all .over India participated

and it was biggest venture. sponsored by the Sangh.

३

३

—— liss. Martha Grahlti’s performances. ८
-—-—Song Recital by Talat Mahmud.

—-Theatrical shows by the Weyne State University Theatre Group from USA. ‘

—— Musical Evening—Late Shri Hussan Lal‘.‘ :

'

—-Atit स्थिडेम्भक्याहूँ by Natya Institute ३ of Choreography:
——DNS hosted 19th Annual Convension, of BNS in Delhi.

Delhi Natya Sangh in- collaboration with *Muiiiéioal-:boiporati‘ollipelhi organised A
Festival of Ten Plays & Ballets at Nagar Nigam Rangshala in Feb—March.’73.

