H A B B A K H AT U N
Zoon came of a lower middle cZass family. She was from her childhood
a combination of beauty and talent. Discovering her talents for studies
her father sent her to a highly accomplished teacher under whose
guidance she attained proﬁciency in literature, music and suf‘tsm. She
composed poems of lot/e and longing and sung them to her hearts

content.

Her fame soread far and wide attracting learned scholars to the

little hamlet. Soon enough her encounters with them became subject of
derisive talk among neighbours. Therefore much against her will, she
was married off to a peasant boy of low intellectual calibre.
Her love of poetry, music & philos0phy was anathema to the people
around her, resulting in constant conflicts. She expressed her feelings
in her songs full of nostalgic melancholy which she sang
in her
melodious voice.

Tormented by her hostile surroundings she went back to her own village where she could eXpress her yearning for a beloved, unnamed
and etherial.

Her songs sung in melodious voice attracted a kindred soul. a
great lover of music—Prince Yusuf Chak and the two souls met. The
prince got her freed from her social obligations and took her as his wife
and then onwards she came to be known as

Habba Khatun - the beloved

lad y.

Prince Yusuf ascended the throne as Yusuf Shah Chak to continue
the tradition of the Chak dynasty, mutual tolerance among his subiects
and patronage to art and learning. Habba Khatun wielded a (treat influe.
nce over him and her gentle persuation kept him on the right path as a
just ruler. This life of idyllic charm proved to be ephemeral

The Mughal Emperor Akbar having failed to annex this beautiful land
by veiled diplomatic moves attacked Kashmir. Under the command of
Raja Bhagwan Das, the M ughal Army reached the entrance to the valley.
Much against the will of the peace loving king, his young son Yaqub with
a band of nobles put up a valient ﬁght and defeated the Mughal «army.
Amidst rejoicings the defeated Mughal commander Raia Bhagwan

Das persuaded the king to meet the Mughal Emperor for establishing friendly relations to avoid any further attacks by the superior Mughak
forces. The Raja gave the king his word of honour for safe return.
But Akbar, in flagrant violation of the word of honour given by his

general got Yusuf Shah arrested and deported to Behar.
The news came as a shattering blow to Habba Khatun. She left the
palace and wandered in the valleys, singing her songs, full of longings for
reunion with her beloved, away from this world of strife and conflict,
some where in the distant meadows that are in bloom,
“ I shall strew the meadows

with flowers for thee
come come my lover of flowers ! ”

and thus singing Habba Khatun, born amidst the saffron flowers faded
away from this mortal w0rld leaving behind a legacy of ‘lol' which
reverberates today as ever through the beautiful valley of Kashmir.

