O 7530”“ O
Nawal Agaria started working as a labourer in that very Factory being
inﬂuenced by the idiology of his father, Laxman Agaria. the hero of the
ﬁght of two paisa. A leader of Communist Party tried to explain them that
all the laboures in other countries engaged themselves for only eight
hours. Then why their job will exceed the said duration? On this issue
Nawal and others raised the agitation. They protested either the overtime to be paid beyond 8 hours of their job or strike will be called for the
said demand. Authority of the Factory admitted the demand of the
labourers. Gradually Nawal achieved the post of a leader of the labourers
under the guidence of political Guru Bhabanath. At this stage. going
through the analysis of a leader in comparison that of his educational
quality, Nawal understood that the way in respect of a leader, is more
troublesome which he thought. A question raised in the party for sending
the illiterate Nawal to the Parliament as an MP. Difference of opinion
established between Bhabanath, Nawal and Jagat Sen, Lokesh Patra.
Nawal defeated in the third election. Mental pressure started because
Nawal already detached from his root level due to obsession and profound attention of the post of MP. He started to go again to obtain a new
way and also in search of the root.

0 विंराम्हेंणस्कद्र कशा o
क्तबिएँठेबितृ 'vltl’l‘»r ख्यान भक्ष्य alive! स्याउ oz? कद्रुज्ञटइ लाबफ़बदृर्दे। मर्दशताब all? I ब्धबिक
भखूव्रत्नब्र थार्पि । ease-er धकृछ क्यमूव्रद्रुबब्ल माघद्रुन छारा some शाधि' कबिएँठेनिष्ठे थार्पिं । क्खि
नव किलूह गुणा जाब टिबष्ठीबब्ब रूल मा । आ साठे के 'धीबप्रअंन भूबँव्वबिबश्य थार्तात्माकै mints" बाब
cam काउ। १" ख्वा रब प्याक्नॉशंछ भक्त बिस्ताथ । उबनस्थ्य निदृजाचब्ब maize थाटब्र ना स्वास्वाप,
we mama गात्र । moral क्या Silvana स्थिति भाऊ - श्चमूंब्रटमब्र villi ष्याञ्चठ घज्जमूब्र
mum १ छाशब्त लि mi गामूबटमब स्याल बिम्बिग्र शब शंरुद्वि १ cw गिरुड़ाबब्व ड्रटब्त ३1४३१
यानबब्ब आ r मभाथान … छाव्रहे गुणा मकान बाब रुद्रुब्तहि — प्याघबश्र्व —- उबमाण ﬁrearms
डाउन l

.

O DWM Nah 0
At time in India, The communist Party was merely at the Thresh-hold of
gaining its foundation. It was a party of the deprived and the people of no
belongings. A party of labourers and workman. The party had been advancing with a true workman on the front. But everything does not go
always as such. The question raised it if would be proper to sent an
illiterate to the house of parliament. which results an exposure of ideological dessensions.
Bhabanath can not find himself collinear with Lokesh and Jagat sens.
His Conscience stand him before the reality of having no workmen in the
workman’s Party. His morale questions, “are we being estranged from
those people?". Why we forget the root?
‘- Answer! We too, with Bhabanath and Nawal, are in search of that.

है

I if
3,८3३"

३३३2१वींटकू

”fa
टr
ठ'न ले:-:,

भट

