,r'vn‘gHeritage School hosts

Bhiar/atnatyam Dance Recital
Excelsior Correspondent
ordinator for Jammu region.
All classical forms of art are
JAMMU,
Aug
27
.
an important source of not only
Padmashree Geeta Chandran, a
aesthetic values but also enhance
celebrated artist of Indian classivalues of life, mind, soul and
spirituality. It is the awareness of
these values which the cultural
organization of Spic Macay
envisions and aims to spread
through our heritage of classical
music and dance amongst the
youth oftoday
Padmashree Geeta Chandran
captivated the eager audience
with her enthralling performances which were punctuated with
her verbal explanations of three
major tenets of classicism,
namely bhawa, raga and taal
which is also the genesis of the
term 'Bharatnatyam'.
Her dance performances
which were highly emotive and
engaging were based on classical
themes mainly related to Lord
Shiva & Krishna. She was ably
supported by a highly talented
team of artistes with K.
Venkateshwar as the lead vocal—
ist, S. Shankar on Mridangam
and Rohit Prasanna on ﬂute and
her disciple, Ms, Radhika, on
हुँ
- ,
Padmashree
Geera nattuvangam, who also gave a
C'handran
performing graceful dance performance.
An interactive session was
Bharatnatyam Dance Racital
at Heritage School in Jammu. also held during which the ebulcal dance Bharatnatyam gave a lient students asked questions to
lecture cum dance demonstration the danseuse who most patiently
at Heritage School on 27th answered the queries of the stuAugust 2015, which was the dents with all the grace.
A few students also got the
concluding session of her 4 day
opportunity to share the stage
session with schools.
Padmashree
Geeta
For last few days she has with
been visiting schools in Jammu Chandran and it was a moment
city under the aegis of the Spic which would be etched in their
Macay - an eminent national memories for long.
The Vice-Principal, Dr,
level organization known for
proliferating awareness about Gautam Guha expressed his
Indian classical forms in dance gratitude to Padmashree Geeta
and music among the youth of Chandran for providing the
India.
Heritageans the opportunity to
7'1रे
The dance recital began with experience the richness of beauहुँ the auspicious ceremony of lamp ty of Indian classical dance
lighting and the dignitaries pres- forms. He also opined that there
ent on the occasion were D11. was a dire need of exposing our
Sapna Sangra, co-ordinator of young generation to such classiJ&K chapter of SPIC MACAY cal forms for them to make bet
and Dr. Seema Rohmetra, co- ter choices for learning in life.
‘

,r

