and Teentala respectively. Listening to her
fast Sapaat ’I‘aans it was difficult to believe
that she is inher eighties. Thiswas followed
by a ’I'humari iii Pilu. a Dadra in Khamai and
a Bhajan. where she reigned supreme.
’I‘he three-day festival had music in its
entirety with vocal, instrumental and dance,
comprising botli Hindustani and Carnatic
classical music. The Sangeet Samaroh-2015
took a flying start with a captivating
Bharatanatyam recital by Amanda Shankar
Jayant. presenting the full Ramayana, based
on the compositionsof saint Thyagaraia, one
among the Trinity of Carnatic Music along
with Muthuswaiiiy Deekshitar and Sliyaina
Shastry: She depicted the whole story of
Ramayana in EkaaharyaAbhirmya, or playingall the roles of different characters tierself. ’l‘he excellent live orchestra enhanced
the dramatic quality of her enthralling
performance.
The renowned Carnaticvocalist T M Krish-

-< vw v—l-rr—nv-n— क्वश्कि

lie Bharat iya Vidya Bhavan (BYE) was
founded in 193१1 by K M .\I\nish l for the
preservation and proinoi ion of Indian
cultiu‘e. particularly in the field of education
and classical arts like mus1c and dance that
elevate the mind and soul to the enjoyment
of the highest levels of beauty andtruth. Keep
ing this in mind the Delhi Kendra of BVB
initiated Bhavaiis Sangeet Samaroh. on the
occasion of its Founders Day as a tribute to
Munshi. Theannual festival piesents not only
some of the best tistes as a tribute tothis
great heritage for the benefit ofthe discerning
audience but also honours oneof the senior
musteianswith Bhavan‘s Sliikhar Saininaii
for their valuable contribution in the field
of performing arts like music and dance.
Swar Bliamli. the annual publication
brought out by the BVB on this occaSion. is
another attract ion of the Samaroli. which has
made rich contribution to the field of learning by exposing new generations to our
anc1ent Wisdom. This annual digest of Bhavan'sDelhi Kendra. is concentrated on seiniiial texts of the Indian tradition. After Swar'
Bhorati‘s valuable issues focused on Bliarata ५ Sui/i ८८ shown in hdllbkl'll and 51131)pathikaram in Tamil. this year its theme is
‘ Brihaddesr a seminal Sanskrittreatise of 9th
ntury on Indian classical music that clares for the first time the concept of Raga
and distinguishes the music into different
categories of Margi' and Desi. the classical
and the folk genres. These scholarly issues
of Swar Bharalt have become a collector's
Sangeet
items anda must for serious researchschola rs .
Sa maroh-ZO15
’I‘he Bhavan‘s Sh ikhar Samman was
mark Bharatiya
awarded to Girija Devi this year,on the
concluding evening of Bliavan Sangeet
Vidya Bhavan’s
Sainaroh-ZOIS. She regaled the audiFounder’s Day, where ence with her mesmerisiiig vocal
recital thereafter. Accompanied on
the country’s top
Sarangi by MuradAli, on Harmoriium
by Vinay M islira . on Tabla by Mithilesh
artistes were
Jha and with vocal support by her disfelicitated. A review ciples Rita Dev and Padinja Chakravaiu
ty.she opened her powerful performance
by Ma niari
With a couple of Vilambit and Chhota
Khayal in Raga Jog, set to Vilambit Ektala
Sinha

na, who has redefined and refined Carnatic classical music. reached the inaugural
evening to spiritual heights with hisdivine
music. Opening his recitalwith a Todi composition invokingKanchiKamaakshi, Krisli- …
na went on to sing raga Haiiieer Kalyani.
equivalent to raga Kedar of Hindustanimusic
and regaled musiclovers of both styles His detailed “ Taanum " inRaga Nattai was a com दृ
plete item in itself. Normally musicians begin ३

with raga Nattai. but Krishna doesn't follow the conventions in the strict sense and
sings for hisown pleasure, which is so can
tagious that people are moved with it. The
Ragamaalika completed the rest of the ragas
for the evening. He had excellent accompanyment on Violin by Akkarai S Subulaxmi
and N Manoj Shiva on Mi'idangani.
The solo Sarangi recital by Kama] Sabri
and Flute recital by Ronu Majumdar were
the other attractions of the festival along with
the Kathak recital by Uma Sharma.

P
.,
1

i
.
1

