GURU KRISHNA CHANDRA NAIK — AS I KNEW HIM
BY
SHOBHA DEEPAK SINGH
It is my proud privilege to write a few lines about the great dancer and Chhau
Guru, Krishna Chandra Naik. My association with him was for 12 years and
during this time, he produced nearly eight ballets and six items in Mayurbhanj
Chhau. It was out of this close association with him and the conviction that I
might be able to carry forward his interpretation of Mayurbhanj Chhau that I
venture to, in a humble way, write below what I knew of Guru Krishna Chandra

Naik’s views on Mayurbhanj Chhau.
Guru Krishna Chandra Naik was a great Chhau performer and teacher of a very
high calibre. He was drawn towards dance at a very young age and received
formal training from Guru Bhagwan Das and also from Shri Yogendra Kumar,
Shri Sadhan Bisae, Shri Mohammed Raja Khan and Shri Visheshwar Bhanj. He
performed in the Royal Court of Mayurbhanj State and received numerous
credit medals for individual items. He left Mayurbhanj in 1946 and taught in
Calcutta for a period offour years. In later years, he found himselfwith the Little
Ballet Troupe in Gwalior. He eventually left Gwalior and decided to work in
Delhi where he joined Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra from 1975 till 1984,
During this period, he received the Sahitya Kala Parishad Award and the
Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. In the year 1984, he retired to his native village
due to illness. Even from his sick bed, he choreographed Chitra Parv. A few
months before his death, the government of India appointed him Emeritus
Professor in recognition of his outstanding contribution in the ﬁeld of dance. At
Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, he taught Chhau dance to many students, some
of whom are ﬁrst-rate performers.
Guru Krishna Chandra Naik was the ﬁrst to enunciate his theory of Chhau by
stating that the temples at Konarak and Bhuvaneshwar as well as the paintings
on the ‘pats’ of Orissa provide evidence ofboth the martial forms in the form of
soldiers as well as the lasya type of ﬁgures in the form of dancing girls, romantic
couples and Gods and Goddesses.
Earlier, it was believed that Chhau was only a martial form of dance which did

not have the potential to portray the ﬁner subtleties and sensitivities of the
performing art. It was Krishna Chandra Naik who not only demonstrated lasya
in Chhau style but excelled any female dancer of great repute in the delicacies
of movements, grace and expression. It was he who expanded and applied the
Chhau style of dance to the ballet form which was unconceived of earlier.
During his stay with the Kendra, he choreographed many ballets in Chhau style,

like Jagdev, Konarak, Kaling Vijay, Khajuraho, Yayati and Chaitra Parv..
It was Guru Krishna Chandra Naik’s dream that Chhau should be put on a
classical platform. Towards this end, he presented a paper in Calcutta in 1985
outlining all the deﬁnitions of Chhau.
He revolted against students with ﬂexible bodies wanting to, in a couple of
months, learn items of Chhau and present them in a traditional manner without

knowing its grammer, apart from knowledge of the basic technique.
Towards identifying Chhau as a classical style of dance, he had deﬁnite ideas on
subjects such as costumes, music, etc. Which are as follows: —
1. Costumes: Just as Bharata Natyam, Kathakali, ()dissi, etc. have evolved a

traditional style of costume, he was desirous that Chhau costumes be designed
in such a way that full leg movement of Chhau and use of the body should be
visible. He urged that towards this end, fabrics from ()rissa should be used and

he evolved a design which he thought would be the ideal costume for Chhau.
2. Music: The musical score, according to him, had always to be carefully
worked out following in detail each complicated rhythmic pattern of the
Chhau dance. He was pragmatic enough to know that liberty in music may be
taken while presenting ballets. However, for traditional Chhau items, he was of
the view that Chhau drums and wind instruments should be used.
3. Repertoire: For working a repertoire of Chhau dances to be presented, he
suggested that items should be written out in the beginning from those which
are presented at the Chaitra Parv Festival in Orissa. These items should be

