SCENE S
A series of battles take place between the Chandelas and other armies. Many

generations pass and by this time, the Chandelas are the unquestioned rulers of
the area, where Khajuraho now stands.

SCENE 6

Yashovarman the present Chandela king is very disturbed during the recital of a
court dance and on being asked, tells his queen of the dream he had. In the
dream he saw Hemvati asking him to build a temple which will free man from
all bondages of passion and lust. Yashovarman sends out his ministers to ﬁnd a
suitable shilpi for Khajuraho. The king’s daughter Alka asks her parent’s permission to study sculpture. Her parents give her the permission.

SCENE 7
Alka comes to learn sculpture from the chosen shilpi. Although he is reluctant
in the beginning, however, seeing her talent he begins to teach her. He makes
sure that his symbols of the snake and the beautiful girl are with him to avoid
any pitfalls. The ministers see this shilpi’s work also.
SCENE 8
The group of shilpi‘s is assembled in the king‘s court. The king, however, is not
satisﬁed with what they have to present. The chosen shilpi now comes in and
the king is convinced of his ability to make Khajuraho. The shilpi agrees on the
condition that Alka be his model.
SCENE 9
During the sculpturing of the romantic poses of Khajuraho Alka falls in love and
portrays this to the shilpi. The king and the queen see this and are full ofpraise
for this sculptor who does not take advantage of their daughter.
SCENE 10
Khajuraho is complete and all are present at the inauguration except Alka.
SCENE 11
Alka is despondent and upset at the home of the shilpi for she will no longer be
able to meet the man she loves. Hearing the foot-steps of the shilpi, she quickly
hides behind a model of herself.
SCENE 12
_
A
The shilpi comes home with a sense of emptiness. Everything in his house
reminds him of Alka and thinking that he is alone he begins to express his
- feelings until suddenly he hears the sound of her anklet. He gets back to his
proud self — Alka is angry and frustated and goes to break the statue. The shilpi
runs and embraces the statue who is none other than Alka herself. The two
dance together in blissful unison.

CREDITS
Choreography
Music
Lighting
Costumes. ornaments and sets

—
—
—
—

Guru Krishna Chandra Naik
Partha Das, Shelly Dutta
.
Tapas Sen
Shobha Deepak Singh

Tailoring

—

Radhey Shyam

Produced and Directed by
SHOBHA DEE PAK SINGH

KHAJURAHO SHILPI

THE CAST
— Padam

GURU

- Mada"

GURU PATNI

- LU?!“

SNAKE

-

Am”

