BEAUTIFUL GIRL

—

Aniu

H E MVATI
MOON GOD
BUTTERFLY
HEMVATI‘S CHILD
YASHOVARMAN
YASHOVARMAN'S QUEEN
ALKA

——
—
—
—
—
-—

Vimla
Pradeep
Anita
Suman
M adan
Manju
Su ni ta

EXCERPI'S FROM THE PRESS
“'lhe Bhartiya Kala Kendra‘s latest ballet ‘Khajuraho’ has taken the capital by

storm; for the ﬁrst time, it deeply portrays that the sensous couples of Khajuraho have also sublimity. And, it shows how the erotic imageries on stone can
he transmuted into a dance-drama without being libidinous or profane.”

— PROBE (JULY 1980)
“The subject provides for the most thrilling and aesthetically most satisfying,
yet daring. display of the male-female relationship of the Indian dance. The
strongest part of the ballet is the duet sequences. The balance between
strength and subtle suggestion, between sensousness and good taste in here
taken to new heights.“
— THE ECONOMIC TIMES

“The most sophisticated production from the Kendra yet. it takes the malefemale relationship as seen by dance to an entirely new, aesthetically daring
level. They celebrate not only the ﬁnest aspect of human desire and sexuality
but the dance skills of the human as a whole. Movement was never so beautiful
as when tandava and lasya aspects of Chhau combine in Iakhandari and Kamth’s
joint limb-to-limb dancing."
— THE HINDUSTAN TIMES

के ‘ Each sequence was executed with meticulous felicity. The serpentine ballistic
movements of Chhau were perfect, creating fresco-like compositions as
though some divine artist has breathed life into the sculpted panels of
Kh aju rah o. ' ’
—— PATRIOT
“A show meriting many many repeats not only here but all over the country. It
would be a good idea to present it in the erotic epi-centre of the universe.”
—— THE INDIAN EXPRESS

“The experiment was signiﬁcant. It demonstrated the great potential of Chhau
as a ballet form. The dancers today closely initiated the postures of the exquisite sculptures. For its sheer novelty of approach and perfect execution, this
ballet blazes a trail.”
~— THE TIMES OF INDIA

KARNA
SYNOPSIS
SCENE I
Kunti, a princess, is serving the sage Durvasa at a yagna. Pleased with her

devotion he grants her a boon, that she may at any time invoke a God of her
desire and produce a child out of their union.

