Attracted by the glory and power of the rays of the Sun, Kunti decides to invoke
the Sun God — Surya.

SCENE Ii
From her union with the Sun God, Kunti has a son, Kama — born with golden
armour and ear drops which make him invincible. However, being unwed, one
stormy night Kunti is forced to ﬂoat Kama away in a casket.
Kama is brought up by a Charioteer and his wife — Adhirath and Radha. Kama
spends his time practising the art of archery and warfare. One day Adhirath
comes to take Kama to the Kingdom of Hastinapur. Kama bids a tearful farewell
to his mother.

SCENE Ill
The envious cousin princess the Kauravs and Pandavs are receiving training
from their learned Guru — Dronacharya. Adhirath requests the Guru to teach
Kama, but he refuses because Kama is born of low caste.
Kama is helpless. Then he sees the brilliant, shining Sun, whom he decides to

make his Guru. His desperation now turns into determination to practice and
be better than his arch rival, Arjun.

SCENE [V
The Kauravs and Pandavs are displaying the skills imbibed by them and Arjun is
declared the best, until Kama arrives and shows that he is in every way as good
as, if not better than, Arjun. However, Dronacharya comes forward and tells
Kama that he must announce his caste.
Seeing Kama depressed and recognising his capability, Duryodhan, the eldest
of the Kauravs immediately comes forward and offers Kama a part of his
kingdom. The Kauravs are elated to have as ﬁne a warrior as Kama amongst
them.

The Pandavs are dejected to know that there is a warrior now better than Arjun.

Kunti recognises her son by his golden armour but for fear of society, is unable
to openly admit her motherhood and falls down in a faint.

SCENE V
At the marriage of the beautiful princess, Droupadi, Kama makes his way
towards fulﬁlling the conditions of marrying her but she stops him by saying
that she would not marry a person of low caste. Kama is deeply humiliated.
In the meantime, Arjun disguised as a Brahmin till now, under the instructions
of Lord Krishna, fulﬁls the conditions of marriage. Kama is infuriated at the
partiality and a ﬁerce war takes place between Kama and Arjun, until Lord
Krishna intervenes and declares Arjuna ﬁt for this marriage.

SCENE VI
The Pandavs invite the Kauravs at the time of the establishment of their
Kingdom, at Indraprastha Lord Krishna is made master of ceremonies. However, a distant cousin, Shishupal, begins to abuse him. Infuriated, Lord Krishna
invokes his mighty disc and Shishupal tries to hide behind the Kings in order to
save himself. However, they all disappear. Kama remains unmoved and Shishupal hides behind him. The disc goes around him many times but his body
remains unscathed, because of the protection of the golden armour.
Lord Krishna realises that in order that the Pandavs win the war, they must get
hold of the golden armour and he tells Indra, Arjun’s father, to procure this
armour from Kama
SCENE VII
Indra goes dressed as a sage, while Kama is offering his early morning prayers.
He asks Kama for the golden armour and Kama realises that this sage is none
other than Lord Indra himself, but true to his word, he makes the biggest
sacriﬁce of his life. By parting with it, he gives away not only his invincibility, but
in fact, presents to the Pandavs, their victory.
SCENE VIll
Hearing this news Duryodhan is perturbed and he tells Kama to go to the
mighty sage Parashuram to study the Brahamastra. Kama agrees.
SCENE [X
Thinking he is a Brahmin, Parshuram teaches Kama. One day while he is tired,

