EXCERP’T'S FROM THE PRESS
Socially relevant ballet - Bhartiya Kala Kendra’s ‘Karna’, a ballet in Mayurbhanj
Chhau style, had a social relevance inasmuch as it sought to portray the evil of
the caste system prevalent in that age. As could be expected, the production
was of a high standard, with scenes rolling out quickly in the manner of
celluloid, with never a dull moment — Indian Express.
For years now, that progressives in the ﬁeld ofperforming arts have been trying
to convince the audience as well as performers that some contemporary
relevance must be brought into the classical arts. That this relevance be
brought without going beyond our myths and epics has also been an endeavour
of the people who would like our arts to grow.
But it was left to the Shriram Bhartiya Kala Kendra to take the ﬁrst step and
produce a ballet in the Mayurbhanj Chhau style which is an attack on the
age-old caste compartmentalisation in India.
A very old theme which has been used at the right time, the production is good
on the whole and brilliant in ﬂashes. For once a ballet is tight with not a lot of
unnecessary group dances to lengthen it. The group seems to have worked very
hard on this particular style and after doing several productions in this form
they have given a slickness and a ﬁnish to the ballet which is often lacking. The
music is good and provides the right eﬁects without becoming too dominating
and over-bearing. The lighting handled by Tapas Sen has always been one ofthe
strong points of a Bhartiya Kala Kendra ballet. Here too, the effects were
excellent. The Kendra has set the trend for mellow and mild treatment unless it
becomes very necessary to do the reverse — Patriot.
Kama — new, vibrant interpretation : At the outset, credit should go to the
Kendra for selecting and staging superbly this Mahabharata episode of great
dramatic dimensions and giving a new, vibrant interpretation to the life and
character of the hero.
Presented aptly in the Mayurbhanj Chhau style, which originated in the tribal
life of the eastern region, and ﬂavoured with folk idiom and martial art, Kama
undoubtedly made an impact on the minds of the spectators.
Well choreographed by Guru Krishan Chan Naik, the Chhau style put in more
physical force in the ballet. Partha Das and their team did a creditable job of
music and percussion.

Tapan Sen’s imaginative technique in lights deserves appreciation for its timely
precision and execution, especially in the judicious two'dimensional focus.
Shobha Deepak Singh’s costtunes and stage sets were of high order — The
Evening News.

The ballet had a lyrical pace and dramatic intensity. Its costumes decor, music
and lighting made it into an aesthetic experience. The audience watched this

epic story being unfolded on the stage with awe — The Times of India

'

ओत है टू

w" T

८५

t»

'

ii a’

/

"चु

}

i l

‘\

NATRAa

क्व
\

-

f! /l ,९९ ५ "\W

J . )‘v

I

३

¢HHAU FACULTY

Shashidharan

a

- -८

DANDI

Shashidharan
Sunita

~ ~~-~ v a.

Gum 0le Niranian Bisoi

Guru Janmeiay Sai Babu
“m— .._\

Drummer , Utendra Ghade

M ३ ३’"

