National School of Drama Repertory Company

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in
Business Manager

S.P. Sharma

Production Coordinator

I’arag Sarmah

Music Incharge

Om Prakash

Light Technician

Gyan Chand Batra

Costume Incharge

C.S. Bhatia

Sound Technician

R. S . Go 3 ain

Box 0 Hic e

Neelam Kapoor

1964-65 on an experimental basis by Sh. 1i. Alkazi. In
the begining, it consisted of only four actors. it later
expanded in to a larger group of actors, musicians and

technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of the
National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964 Late Shri

Om Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977, Late
Shri i\ [am >h ar Singh become the first regular Chief of
Repertory when Manohar Singh left the Repertory
Company in 1885, for a short period Miss. Uttra

Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked after the
V. P. Va3hi8 t
fu n c ti < ) n i ng ( > f t h e c < > m p a n y.
Dharamveer

Late ShrilN. Kaushal officiated as the Chief till 1988.
From 1989 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Baiai was
handling the company. l’rom 1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal
was again functioning as acting Chief. From 1999
N.S.D. graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma was appointed as
the permanent chief ( ) f the Repertory Company.

Over the years the Repertory has produced a variety
of plays ranging from stylised musicials to realistic
contemporary works of Indian drama to translations
and adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent
directors of national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have worked with the
C 0 mp 311 V.

Repertory has performed over 151) plays by 90
playwrights and has worked with ()5 directors. Quite a
few of the actors of the company have emerged over
the years as celebrities in theatre, cinema and
television in India. The Repertory tours extensively all
over India and has made several successful trips of
Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, Mauritius and
Bangladesh.

The Repertory paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh, in

1992—93 on his twentieth death anniversary through a
major festival of his plays.
Rang Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of photographs,
set models, costumes, properties, posters etc. of

Repertory productions was inaugurated in 1991 on
the occasion of the Silver jubilee celebration of the
Company. The company celebrated 411 yrs. of its
e x i s tan c e 1 > n 21 1 t h May 211114.

Repertory Chief

Suresh Sharma

Director NSD

Prof. D.R. Ankur

