Story Writer

Born in a small village of Madhya Pradesh, Uday
Prakash lost his parents in his early childhood. He
graduated in Science and completed his post
graduation in Hindi literature with excellent
academic records. During his teaching assignment
in jawaharlal Nehru L'niversity, he lived two years in
Imphal, the capital city of turbulent Manipur, the

North I’iaster state of India. He was Officer on
Special Duty in Department of Culture; Govt. of

M. P. before joining Times of India's reputed Hindi
news weekly 'Dinmaan' for 9 years. He was a senior
Assistant editor of Sunday Mail and editor of an
linglish monthly Eminence for some time. From
academic to Journalism and 'I‘ranslations to Film
making, L'day Prakash is perhaps one of very few
writers in Hindi who have a vast spectrum of
experience, awareness and skill to tell every time
something new to his readers. Undoubtedly he is
one of the most revered, popular and controversial

poet, fiction writer and essayist in contemporary
India literature for the last two decades. His works
are widely translated in all Major Indian and foreign
languages and included in major national and

International anthologies.
He has moved to a satellite city, Ghaziabad near
Delhi and lives as a freelance writer and ﬁlmmaker.
He has produced and directed many documentaries
and TV films for various organizations.
He has participated in International Poetry Festival,
Rotterdam in 2()(l4 as a poet and travelled to

Germany. English translation of his novella 'Peeli
Chhatri \‘(ali Ladki' by jason Grunebaum with the
title, 'The Girl with the Golden Parasol' has received

prestigious PEN grant in 2005.
Books : Peeli (,jhhatri \X'ali l.adki, Raat Mein
Harmonium, Dariyai Ghoda, Paul Gomra Ka
Scooter, [\ur .-\nt mein Prarthana, Suno Iiarigar,
Tirich, lshwar Iii z\ankh, [\reba Pareba, Mangosil,
I ik Bhasha Hua Karti H ai, Mohan Das, etc.
linglish ’I‘ranslations : Short Shorts I .ong Shots,

Rage Revelry and Romance, The Girl with the
Golden Parasol.
Currently assigned by Penguin India to write a

novella—China Baba and by Katha to translate
Milorad Pavic's novel 'I.andscape Painted with leaf

