Few words from Story Writer

Mangosil for me in ordinary words is not just another
contemporary hindi story writing. This is not a
famous story also. Mangosil is actually a search for a
legend, a small but difficult descriptive try of its
possibility and invention. ;\ legend of such an
abnormal child, which is born out of the womb of the

joint violence of omnipresent capital, technology and
state powers. little Suryakant or Suri, whose head in

comparison to his body is growing bigger every
minute and like a time bomb is itself creating the
destruction of his life, has suddenly come into time
and civilization and is living, where there is no place or
chance for any kind of innocence. It is an age for the
end of ignorance and innocence. This is a painful age
for the death of childhood and in its place for a
helpless but collective adulthood. A kind of unhappy
and restless collective re—awakening. In the words of
K ab i r a n age to ' awa k e n and c ry' .
Mangosil is a disease, which has no mention in any
book of medical science because its virus is not
biological, its social. The search for the truth hidden

inside the legend of Suryakant born out of the play of
barbaric capital and Violent power is the aim of this
story. In this story the incident of the birth of
Suryakant is a prophecy of the deformation and
nightmare of the present capitalistic civilization, in
which is included the death of the grandeur and
violence of this civilization itself. That is why in
Mangosil the story of Suri is also the prophecy of
some coming historical or civilization based curtain
fall. A s t( ) ry' < ) f a n ew ( ; ( )d o r () f a new history.

But apart from this story is ordinary reading also. A
description of the lives of the full stops spread all
around us, which we see not through media and
advertisements but everyday with our naked open
eyes
I am very happy that National School of Drama and
contemporary capable theatre persons have chosen
this story to be staged. I give my heartfelt best wishes
to all those who are connected with the staging of this
pl ay'.
Uday Prakash

