Director

After Completing post graduation in English, he got
his diploma from National School of Drama with

specialization in direction. He is the founder-director
of 'Nirman Kala Manch' and 'Safarmaina'. He also
worked as director of Sriram Center and done

extensive work with the writings of Nirala, Rahul
Sankrityayan,

Habba Khaturn, Tulsi, Mahendra
lVIishra, Bhartendu, Kabeer, Renu, Mohan Rakesh,
Bidyapati, Heera-dom, Bhikari Thakur etc. He has
been observer of National Drama Festival and

participated at 6th International Bera Americano The
Teatro The Bogota Festival at Surinam, Colombia and
Caracas as a music director with 'Rang Vidushak',
Bh op al .

As a director his works are : Bakri, Bidesia, Jasma—
Odan, N al Damayanti, Comrade Ka Coat, Khadia Ka

Ghera, Gajipur Ka Hajjam, Rustam—Sohrab, Three
Penny Opera, Malvikagnimitram, Company Ustad,
Kahan Gaye Mere Ugna, Janwasa, Ambapali, Patti
Parikatha, Lukua Ka Shahnama, Neelkantha Nirala,
Mati Gadi etc.

Specialized in W’orking Autobiographical Plays
Company Ustad, based on Mahendra Misir's Life and
work. Neel Kanth Nirala based on Suryakant Tripathi
Nirala's Life and work with SRC, New Delhi. Ugna Re
More Katay Gelah based on 14th century poet
Vidyapati. Heera Dom based on Life and work of a
Dalit poet Heera Dom with N.K.M. Patna. Gagan
Ghaga Ghahrani based on Kabir with Raigarh, IPTA.
Rahul, on Rahul Sankrityayan's Life and work with
S.R.C., New Delhi. Bharatendu based on Bharatendu
Harishchandra's Life and \Work, S.R.C., New Delhi.

Thumri based on Phanishwar Nath Renu's Life and

Ladkiyan. Ravindra Bharti
Nadi Mein Aag.
Satyanarayans Aahilya.VidyaNandSahay Mere Gaon
Ka Aadami with NKM, Patna. Lok Nayakjay Prakash
Ek Tha Chida.
Music Direction with eminent Director's Plays like
Godan directed by Bhanu Bharti, Khadia Ka Ghera
directed by Robin Das, Tamancha Khan Ki Gajab
Dastan directed by Bansi Kaul, Trishanku directed by
B. M. Shah, Rustam-Sohrab directed by D. R. Ankur,
Brihanalla directed by Ram Gopal Bajaj,]anmejaya Ka
Nag Nagyagya directed by Robin Das, Chanakya
Vishnugupta directed by Satyadev Dubey, Hori and
Charulata directed by Alok Chatterjee, Hayavadan,
Chatur Rohan directed by Ajay Malakani, Dhurta
Samagam and Vidushak directed by Vijay Kumar,
Khisiyani Billi directed by Barry John, Banda Gali Ka
Akhiri Makan directed by D. R. Ankur, Nagin Tera
Vansh Badhe directed by Avtar Sahani, Three Penny
Opera directed by Robin Das, Untouchable directed by
London Smith, Twelfth Night directed by Fritz
Benewitz.
Film and T. V. Experience Assisted Prakash Jha in
.DAMUL. Scored music for 13 episoeds serial 'Zindagi
Is Pal Zindagi Us Pal', Dard Ki Dehri, Anmol Moti etc.

Visualised and Scored Music for NTPC corporate ﬁlm
in 'Jag Musaﬁr’. Participated 15 days intensive
workshop with Ketan Mehta, arranged by NSD, New
Delhi. Directed serial for ETV, Bihar Channel, Bal-

Dhamal& Hasti Ke Sang Masti. Scored Music for
Bhojpuri Film 'Chala Tamasha Dekhe'.
Conducted \‘C’orkshops with slum children since 1990
and formed a children theatre wing 'Safarmaina' in
Patna. As a Camp Director as as an Experty attended

\X’ork S.R.C., New Delhi. Dastan—e—Habba based on
workshop with the collaboration of NSD, EZCL,

poetess Habba Khatoon with LSR College, New Delhi.
Ambapali a Nagarbadhu of Vaishali with N.K.M Patna.
Ek Tha Chida based on lok Nayakjai Prakash Narayan
with N.K.M., Patna. Smriti — Rekha based on 'Mahadevi
Verma' a Hindi poetess, with Hindi Akademy, New

Delhi etc.
Dramatic Enactment of Poetry like Surya Kant

Tripathi Nirala Saroj Smtriy. Alok Dhanwa Bhagi Hui

NCZCC and centeral Sangeet Natak Academy, New
Delhi, etc.

Working on 'Bidesia' a folk form of Bihar constantly
since 1985 and has gained national acclaimed. Pesently
he is engaged in organizing workshops in Hindi belt
and directing plays.

