Director's Note

Suddenly! One day a phone call came from the Chief
of The National School of Drama Repertory
Company 'Sanjay you have to do an experimental play
with the apprenticeship artistes of the Rep. Co., there

will be only 4 apprentice artistes, 10 days prior to the
staging three to four more artistes can be included.
You come in the last week of August 2006, it is

scheduled to be staged in the first week of October. I
said I am coming. What is to be done was decided
only after I came. In between I had to go to Patna for
10 days for the Eighteenth 'Bahurang Natya
Mahotsav' of my Drama Institution Nirman Kala
Manch. It was decided to work on Uday Prakash's
'Mangosil' within the period of one month only. The
dramatic adapation took ten days. In the remaining
days after the preparation and rehearsals whatever is
in front of you. . . could have been done much better.

Wanted to avoid using electronic medium like screen,
projector etc. but could not avoid it. As the play is
global in its totality, so along with the post modern
View I also had to become digital. When art becomes
journalism or when journalism becomes
documentary or then when documentary becomes
fiction or we can say when fiction takes the shape of
metaphorical myth etc. forms. After a chemical
mixture of these forms / genres the concept of the
craft or style which was created . . .. This is the
theatrical beauty science of this play production.
Absolutely like 'Agi t- Prop Theatre' .
Because theatre is a democratic from and the
interference of the various mediums of expression

gives it a totality. At times the poems of Muktibodh,
Stingberg and Pablo Neruda have also been used. The
effort with which shri Vinod Bahadur Rai prepared

Actually, 'Mangosil' is a like a metaphor of the
proletariat class, which is continuously growing like a
virus. If you believe in the Ideological Concepts of
Thesis Antitheses Synthesis or are familiar the
principle of Theory of Change' or are aware of the
Marxist beauty science of 'dialectical materialism'
then you also become a character of this story or play.
Your head will also start growing. Just like Suri who is
a victim of Mangosil. This play stands for those
statements of suri which say 'The disease inside my
head, it was born out of that dirty drain, which ﬂows

near our mezzanine room. The virus out of which
Mangosil was born do you know what the name of
this virus is हैं . . . Poverty. All of us with big heads are
waiting for the great inundation or the great forest
fire. A wait for annihilation. A wait for the day of
judgment.

As far as the play presentation is concerned, when its
dramatic form came in front of us, the fear of the play

becoming linear was always present, as is often the
danger during the production of an off beat story but
V. K. Sharma and Kiran have whole heartedly tried to
create the dramatic moments keeping the 'narrative
form' or we can say keeping the story quality intact.

the poems and prologue is worthy of separate

mention. I am grateful for the creative suggestions for
the betterment of the play given by the designers, Shri
Robin Das, Avtar Sahni, Rajesh Singh, Utpal Jha,
Parag Sarmah etc. I got complete help from the

Repertory Chief Suresh Sharma and those ofﬁcials
under him especially Satish Gautam and Shri Prakash
Sharma. \Working together with the apprentice

artistes in a democrative way we have tried to do
whatever we could . . . it could have been better.

