Light Design

Avtar Sahni graduated from NSD in 1984 with

IVIOSCOW'” organized by Govt. of Delhi in Moscow

specialization in Direction. NSD granted him a

in 1999 and 2006.

fellowhip to work on the “Interaction between

He has acted in ﬁlms i.e. “Dil Se” directed by Mani
traditional performing arts and Modern Theatre”
Ratnam, “()mkara” and “The Blue Umbrella”

under the guidance of Shri Ratan Thiyam. He has
directed about 30 plays including Malbe Ka Malik,
Hayvadan, Archangels dong't play I’inballs, Holi,
Romeo and jeannette, Ulihan and Nagin Tere Vansh
Bade, Thieve's Carnival Mandragola, Asni etc.

directed by Vishal Bhardwaj, “Choo Loongi Asman
directed by Virendra Saini, “Sarfarosh directed by
john Mathew.
He

as

directed

tele

serial

“PAPORI” for Doordarshan.
He has conducted theatre workshops at Ambala,
Ranchi, Banaras, Bhagalpur and Delhi. Avtar Sahni
has

also

conducted workshops

with

children

conducted by NSD and Sahitya Kala Parishad, New
Delhi.
Avtar Sahni participated in the Festival of India in
USSR

and

I nternatinoal

Theatre

Festival

in

Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Dublin, Mexico, Cuba,
France and London with Chorus Repertory Theatre,
Imph al .

The play Uljhan was directed under the Sangeet
Natak Akademi's scheme of “Assistance of your
theatre workers” in 1991 and also participated in the

NSD's ﬁrst National Theatre Festival in 1999. He
has also directed the play Nagin Tera Vansh Bade
with SKI) Repertory Company, New Delhi and

Archangils don't Play Pinball and Mandragola for
SRC Repertory Company, New Delhi.
Light Designing Blood Brothers, Suno re Kissa
directed by Barryblohn, Anamdas Ka Potha directed
by Robin Das NSD Repertory Company, Shila
Sringar, Three Sisters directed by Robin Das NSD
students productions, Bagro Basant Hai directed by
Rob Clare NSD students productions, janmaiay Ka
Nagyagya directed by Robin Das Bhopal
Rangmandal, Chakravyuh and Nine hills one Valley
directed by Ratan Thiyam Chorus Imphal, Bidesi,
Amrapali, Neelkanth Nirala directed by Sanjay
Upadhyay Nirman Patna, Tirich directed by
Prasanna, Suno Re Kissa directed by Barryjohn.

He has also designed light for “Days of Delhi in

‘ ‘ IN TKAAM’ ’ and

