ANUKRITI SPEAKS... ..
The term started and weeks past by like a gush of wind and suddenly we found ourselves face to
face with the Full-Length. To do a musical Full-Length in such a short span of time was a challenge
in itselfwe got tremendous support from our teachers,director, musicians, light's people on every
stage.We have full faith on our work. Keeping our fingers crossed for the final day.............. Rewasa
Another year passing by....... It started with loads of challenges and excitement. The best part was

that we faced all the challenges and at last got our prize. Now its Full— Length... . so again staging
another amazing play with all our energy and enthusiasm. Experiencing so much of self satisfaction
at the end of the session. . . .-Dinesh .

i am playing the role of 'Rajmati' and 'Bhawaj'. l have worked very hard to get into the characters.

My tenure in 'Anukriti' was amazing though it had many ups and down but still i love my 'Anukriti'
and will always miss it. - Apoorva

The most challenging part of Rajmati’s character was showing her transition from childhood to
maturity. l have tried my best to do justice to the character. -Ankita
Playing a negative role is one of the toughest thing I have done and i am still struggling to give my
best. It was nice to be around some crazy lassess doing what we really do pationately. Srishti
Rajmati for me is an innocent character who utterly believes in truth and hurts her husband’s ego
un-intentiolly but at the end emerges as a strong women. Anukriti has been an unique experience
in itself. Full—Length has brought us even closer as a team. -Supriya.

In the play l am playing the role of ‘ गोपी' who represents the play. My character likes dancing and
teasing her partner.
'

जीना और मुस्कुराना,
सिखाती है अनुकृति।

लक्ष्य बनाना और उन्हें अपना बनाना,
सिखाती है अनुकृति।
…Kan ch a n

-

Aspiration

-

Nurnero Uno

-

Unity
Knowledge

-

Reve re nce

—

l deal

—

चं

-—

A
33 X C Z

I feel Anukriti represents all the following qualities :

Tole rent

-

Integrity
—Ranjana

मिराण्डा-हाउस

-

-

I2

