Nai mariyaadaon ka nirrnan karna hoga — its about evolu

tion — my character (Rajm

ati) and myself
as I reach my final year of graduation in Anukriti.
Strength innate in the women within me, gets a fair

exposure on stage as well as off-stage. I enjoy my space
-unchoked, vibrant and relish the sharing.
May Anukriti flourish and continue to provide the new ones
in this platform. -Rouble
I am playing the character of 'Bhanumati', 'Kutni' and 'Kaki'.
Second year in Anukriti ..... Anukriti

makes my college life so enjoyable. Anukriti has helped me to learn
so much about acting. My
second full-length and my character..... its was an awesome experience
-An ind ita
'Rani' as well as 'Dasi' are two diverse characters which I am playing in the
Full-Length. Playing
such diverse roles gave me an enriching experience. । can proudly
say Anukriti has given me
immense confidence, exposure, love and care. There । have discovered my
own abilities.-Anisha

I am playing the role of ‘Raja Bhoj' and ‘yogi’. This is for the second tlrne I am working with Anukriti
but I am also missing my last year’s co-actors Anil, Vishal and Gaurav. I don’t have words
to
describe my feelings for Anukriti’.—Rahul
I am palying the role of 'Raja Bhoj'. It was a fabulous experience Anukriti members are highly
energetic and devoted. Though boys are from different colleges but we worked in as a unit’.-Satish
'Bisal Dev' is the character I am enacting which involves the composition of lots of emotions.
Character of 'Divan' and 'friend of Bisal' gave me a change. Anukriti helped me to inbuilt my
confidence and normalise the pressure of my character. Thanks to all the members of the play for
their co-operation. Our play will be a great success Aamin’.-Abhishek Nishchal
I got a straight role of 'Diwan' as well as 'Bisal'. 'Bisal' was totally an opposite to my character.
Bachchan ji had performed here many years ago which made it more respectable and a desire in
my mind to perform here. Anukriti speaks .......... speaks with their work and theatre. Anukriti has
different style of doing plays. It is a great experience for me to be part of Annual Production. I’ll give
my best on stage to maintain the reputation of the play and the character and the reputation Anukirti

has. - Arun
The time spent in the auditorium is unforgetable Anukrit is an synonymous with dedication and
hardwork. l have grown up as a person. Love you Anukriti. -Nupur

N S D के निदेशक श्री सुशील जी ने हमें बहुत कुछ सिखाया मैं इस नाटक में भोपा (Narrator) को तथा बीसल

देव के मित्र को भूमिका निभा रहा हूँ। इस नाटक ने मुझे तीन-तीन जीवनी को जीने का मौका मिला है। मैं इस छोम
में कुछ समय के लिये ही सही पर एक सदस्य बनकर काफी सुखद महसूस कर रहा हूँ। है है -नरेन्द्र
Bhopa' is the role I am playing which is challenging and requies hardwork. The play has a component
of tradition as well as the components of society. I thank 'Anukriti' from the bottom of my heart. Tushar

This year's Full-Length is as good and as exciting as last year's. Anurikriti has given me the best
moments of my life and I will give this soicety my best. Looking fonNard to a hit show again. Loads
of love and Best Wishes.— Richa

In the Full-Length Production, I am playing the role of 'lndravati' who cannot share her husband or
love. It reflects the basic human emotions like jealously and insecurity. My first experience With

Anukriti has taught me the meaning of hardwork and responsibility-Mayanka

13

"साँच कहूँत्तो...'

