तीन तरह के
"मुझे आशानुरूप चीजें सीखने को मिली द्वारपाल, दरबारी, उडीसा का राजा, की भूमिका निभाते हुए
मिला।
लोगोक्री संवेदनाओं को महसूस करने का मौका मिला। राट्रीय नाट्य विद्यालय के श्री सुशील जी से सीखने को
आपसी समझ, तालमेल, हँसी खुशी से काम करना अनुकृति को विशेषता नजर आईं। इनके साथ काम वरना मुझे
हमेशा याद रहेगा।" -त्तई
My role is that of a 'Pandit' who is a lively person. Anukriti member are friendly and helpful .-Aditya
I am palying the character of 'Pandit' who is very hurnourous as well as mature. My experience
with Anukriti has been great. । have learnt various aspects of theatre and co-ordinatoion With my
co-actors. I will cherish these movements for rest of my life. -Deepak

The level of satisfaction that l have attained by being a part of Anukriti cannot be described even in
black and blue. It was beyond my imagination that the hectic schedules and immense workload
Would prove to be one of the greatest experience of my life.-Sritama.

"हर कृतियों को पढकर मिली चेतना ज्ञाना
अनुकृति में रहकर मुझे हुआ कर्म का ज्ञाना ।
1 would like to thank all the members of Full-Length play for their good behaviour and support. It has
made me punctual and hardworking. Working with 'Anukriti' was great. -Priyanka
l paly the role of Orissa's queen in the Full-Length. She is a strong charactered women. I have
learned many things about theatre and I love my work. -Nimisha
Second year in Anukriti has made me feel a beautiful sense of belonging in the society. I' m thankful
to Anukriti for giving me the most beautiful memories of my college life. Anukriti — I simply love you.
-Saumya
A new year with new experience good and bad. On the brighter side l learnt how to take
responsibilities and handle them and I think I have changed for the better. I learned how to work
under pressure and how to handle it and a new sense of belonging for my society. At the end I
would just like to say Thanks to Anukriti for every thing. -Sh i lpi
Life is a road I want be going,
Life is a river, I want to be flowing,
And in the end I want to be standing,

At the begining with you.
-A |an krita

Memories to cherish, songs to sing, experience with Anukriti ....... throughly exhilirating. Anukriti
has taught me that with loads of determination and loads of enthusiasm, one can successfully
delete the word 'irnpossible' from the dictionary. -Vibha
Besides enchancing my communication and acting skills, Anukriti helped me to develop confidance
and the RIGHT attitude. Anukriti has become more than a part of my life, it has become a way of
life. -Niti

मिराण्डा-हाउस

14

