THE DELHI PARSI ANJUMAN
In presenting to the general Delhi public the Adi Marzban Theatre Group of
Bombay in two different Gujarati plays written and directed by the popular Bombay
playwright Adi Marzban, the Delhi Parsi Anjuman is venturing into a new ﬁeld~from
service merely to the Parsi Community of this Capital city to its much larger general
public.
,. Starting from very humble beginnings, the Delhi Parsi Anjuman to-day caters to
the cultural and spiritual needs of over a thousand Parsis in Delhi and provides in its
well-equipped Dharamsala, boarding and lodging facilities to the large number of
Parsis from rest of the country and abroad who visit Delhi for business or pleasure
every year, The Mengusi Parsi Dharamsala, universally recognised as one of the best of
its kind in the country, was built in 1951 out of generous donations of phi lanthrophic
Parsis of Bombay and Lahore and collections from the local residents, Through its
eighteen rooms, it caters for over I700 visitors every year. Lacking a central
point for congregation of the community, the Delhi Parsi Anjuman constructed the
Bhiwandiwala Hall in I954, This large Hall serves the community for performance of
religious ceremonies, weddings, and navjotes as also for other social gatherings includi ng theatricals performed on the permanent stage at one end,

The need for a Parsi Fire Temple in Delhi had been felt for a number of years,
This long-standing dream of the Delhi Parsis was fulﬁlled when the Kaikhusroo Pallonji
Katrak Dar-e-meher (Fire Temple) was consecrated just over a year ago, on 3|st

December, l96l.
Anjuman

The sacred fire is housed in a simple but artistic building in the

premises at Mathura Road, near Delhi Gate, next to the Dhararnsala and

Bhiwandiwala Hall.

The social and cultural needs of the community are fulﬁlled by the Delhi Parsi
Amateurs Society and the Delhi Parsi Anjuman Social Centre (established in I948 and
I 954 respectively) and through the Anjuman’s quarterly Journal DIPANJALI started in'
l96l_

The Amateurs Society specialises in providing variety and theatrical entertain-

ment programmes on special occasions such as Pateti and Jamshedi Navroz, while the
Social Centre organises other religious, cultural and social activities and functions such
च as community dinners, lectures, etc. on behalf of the Anjuman. The Delhi Parsi
Amateurs Society blazed a new trail when, on 2nd December, I962, it staged its ﬁrst-ever

public performance of a Gujarati comedy for the general Delhi public. ‘ The performance netted Rs. 200 | /'- which was entirely donated to the National Defence Fund.

In organising the performance in Delhi of the two plays of Adi Marzban of

Bombay, the net proceeds of which will be donated to the National Defence Fund. the
Delhi Parsi Anjuman is entering a new phase, It hopes that, with the support of
the Delhi public in general and Gujarati-speaking community in particular, it will be
encouraged in its new role of service to this Capital city and the nation as a whole,

