P
U
O
R
G
E
R
T
A
E
H
T
N
A
B
Z
R
A
M
ADI
'I‘HE story of the growth of the Marzban Theatre Group is linked inescapably
with Adi Marzban’s work in the ﬁeld of the theatre. The play which you
are about to witness is the logical development of three decades of pioneerlng
by Adi Marzban and his colleagues.

Times have changed. Old timers will remember those “good old days”
when every play in English was an excuse for over-ripe Othellos and ham-strung
Hamlets strutting across the stage of Bombay. In Gujarati we have come a long
way from the six-hour long old melodramas, with 20 songs and 22 scene changes.
Today’s plays in English and Gujarati are slick, snappy, realistic and really
“produced”.
The Marzban Group may be allowed to have a moment of pride when
they say that under Adi’s leadership they have contributed more than any other
group in moulding, shaping and inﬂuencing the trend of Amateur Theatricals
in Bombay.
The well-known critic, writer, musician and broadcaster, Victor Paranjoti, once made the following evaluation of Marzban and his work :

“It was some time in 1947, (I was incharge of AIR at Bombay), the
English News Bulletin from London, which began at 9-30 p.m. and lasted for
ﬁfteen minutes, had just been cut short by ﬁve minutes and we found ourselves
landed with an awkward ﬁve-minute gap between twenty minutes and a quarter
to ten. No one quite knew what to do with it. We tried gramophone records.
We tried all sorts of other gap-ﬁllers. They did not work. Those ﬁve minutes
remained “dead” time.

“I decided AIR should concentrate on those ﬁve minutes. I racked my
brain, I read books. I chivied my staff. I listened to other stations. But the
solution eluded me. I went through the records of every single broadcaster in
Bombay, but found nothing to catch the eye.
“Then one evening, I "tuned in to Adi Marzban’s “Budhi Dhansak
Mandal”. As soon as the programme ended, I phoned through to the studios
and contacted Mr. Marzban. We discussed plans and “Anything Goes” came
into existence. Adi Marzban produced this series everyday—for hundreds of

