days. I do believe it was the most popular daily series in the history of radio
in India——or elsewhere for that matter.
“Born in 1914, Adi Marzban graduated from Bombay’s Elphinstone
College in 1933, and then did. publicity work fOr Western India Theatres Ltd.
In 1936, he became editor of Jame-Jam‘shed, the Jame Weekly and the
humorous monthly magazine Gupsup.

“But Adi Marzban’s energy is boundless. He studied the piano; he
studied ॰ painting under Haldankar and Langharnmer; he studied commercial ४
art with Harry Flanagan and began collecting gramophone records and books,
not as a collector, but as a student.

radio and the stage.

He studied ﬁlm-craft and the technique of

But study was merely preparation.

“Adi Marzban got going. He got himself thoroughly mixed up with the
Amateur Dramatic Circle, IPTA, the Theatre Group, the Parsee Arts Circle
and with every other dramatic society that he could possibly get mixed up with.
Then, Bombay’s theatre enthusiasts were given plays and non-stop variety
programmes in English and Gujarati—ranging from the works of Priestley to
those of Kaufmann and Hart. '
“But again and again his mind went back to his beloved “Budhi Dhansak
Mandal”. For this series of radio features—now in its fifth year of existence——
Marzban created a glib-tongued associate Gom'ndji.

“The basic cast of the Mandal has been Marzban himself, Marzban’s
wife and C. C. Mehta as Gom‘ndji. One day, obeying an impish impulse,
Marzban put over an edition of the feature in which Govindji was killed. There
was an immediate storm of protest in the press. Thousands of letters poured
into AIR, and Gom’ndji had to be brought back to life.
“Apart from this there have been plays, features and music programmes
over AIR—all of the same high quality———all with that faint hint of mockery
about them.

“Perhaps it is in “Budhi Dhansak Mandal” that the inner Adi Marzban
becomes overt. In his quietness, this round-faced smiling philosopher broods
over the sorrows and foibles of mankind. He hates sorrow. He would like to
see the world happy. And he hates cant. In “Budhi Dhansak Mandal”, the
man mocks at the foibles of our people, "he lashes out at the unfeeling who
disregard the misery of mankind, he draws aside the curtains from man’s
shortcomings. And underlying all his work and thought is a deep and abiding
love for his fellow-men.”

