l - I - I - I I I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - II n I- I -I - I ‘ I - I ‘- I - I - I - I - I - I -I - I -I -

'I - II -I -I -I - I - I -I - I -I - I - I - II - I -I - I- I -I - I -I - I - I- I -I -

A GREATER DAWN - THE PLAY
Prologue
Savitri wakes to the dawn of the day when Satyavan must die.
the dawn of an evolutionary leap in creation.

It is a symbol DAWN -

Scene I

Savitri is ﬂooded by memories of her past.
Satyavan's death, and broods over the implications.

She remembers Narad's prediction of

Scene II
Savitri remembers her life with Satyavan in the forest.
fight her Fate by the strength of her soul.

She recalls her resolution to

Scene III
Savitri recalls her journey in quest for her soul and her realisation of it.
Scene IV

Savitri comes back to the present.

She accompanies Satyavan to the forest. where he
.

dies

Scene V
Savitri plunges into the Unconscious and confronts Death. He does not give her back
Satyavan. Instead he offers her other gifts and asks her to go back to her mortal world.
Savitri armoured by the the light of her soul asserts her immortality.

Death scoffs at this.
her see this.

He says he is the origin and end of all.

Reason should make

Savitri rebuts the supremacy of Reason as a source of Knowledge. She says Knowlege
comes with perfect identity, which in turn comes with Love.
Scene VI

Death shows Savitri the world of Ideals. Here all is ephemeral and unrealizable. He
tells her that her ideas of Love come from this world. On earth however these ideas do not
work. There Love is irnpermanent and flawed. He asks her to take refuge in his silence
from this flawed and painful world.
Savitri accepts that human love has many flaws and many aspects. But she reminds
Death that all these are only partial and imperfect expressions of a Diviner Love. This is the
Love which man has to realize.

Death rejects the possibility of values such as LOVE, TRUTH. BLISS, SOUL existing in
a world created out of sheer matter.
Savitri agrees the world is material. but it has an evolutionary movement, and it is

'Value' which gives this evolution an impetus.
TRUTH, DIVINE, LOVE. SOUL.

The evolution is taking the world towards

f - I 4: I - I i, I - I - I - I ' I - I I I ‘- I - I - I - I - I - I- I n I t- I - I - I - I ~ I - I - 0 - t

ए

