s that both she (an
in this movement towards a more perfect world, Savitri believe
the world) have a role to play.
emanation of the TRUTH) and Satyavan (the soul of
Scene VII

Death takes Savitri to the realm of the Earthly Real

been made down the ages to change the world.

He ShOWS her that attempts have

But each attempt has failed.

For nothing

changes where Nature/Material World, changes not. So Savitri should .give up her attempt to
change the world, Give up her attempt to bring God, TRUTH. LOVE into this manifestation.
He asks her again to reject the world and to find rest and escape and immortality in his peace.
Savitri rejects his offer. She says she has realized God not only in spirit. but also in
matter. And she wants this condition for the whole earth. She wants the earth to be freed from
the grip of Unconsciousness. She knows this is possible because the earth, which is a
reﬂection of the TRUTH which made it, is slowly going back to its source.
She tells Death that were he to see this TRUTH he would grow suddenly wise and
cease to be. She then reveals the TRUTH of which she is an Emanation, and asks him to
release the soul ol the world-Satyavan. Death gets devoured by light and is transformed.

Epilogue
Savitri and the Supreme meet face to face. She sees him as Death transformed. He
offers her again the choice of total extinction in his Bliss. She asks instead fora greater
Consciousness for earth and man. The boon is given, and Savitri returns with Satyavan
to earth.
"Evolution is not finished; reason is not the last word nor the reasoning animal the

supreme figure of Nature. As man emerged out of the animal, so out of man the superman
emerges.
- Sri Aurobindo: On Thoughts and Aphorisrns.
"The philosophers who reject the world as Maya, are very wise and austere and holy;
but I cannot help thinking sometimes that they are also just a little stupid and allow God to
cheat them too easily."
Sri Aurobindo : On Thoughts and Aphorisrns.

mom

' पं

८ v ८ ८ ८ च ८ ८च ८ ८ ८८ ८ ८ A
च AA
८८

A
Av
Av
A A A AA A
A A _ A A A A A AA A A ८A A A A A A A A
८A
८८ A
v
८ है८
V v V V' V
VV
vv V 'v v ८ ८८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८v ८ ८ ८ ८ ८८

— OiV

0. MOकी ०८८३३०० रौ रेसैरैन्ह' “up:रोएँ 4'9” 9 M§O¢#“OQ‘O“900999904 9“0946-?MM. “06090600000”मृ" 09¢'06“. “”¢NMO”M

00m.omo¢owmooownomwmmowmowwomw

८ ८ ८ ८ ८ A ८ ८ AA A A A A A AA A A A A ई A हैं v v
A८
च v ८ ८ ८ ८८ ८ ८ ८ ८ v ८ ८ ८ च ८८ ८ v ८
८

A A A A A A A A AAA
A
AA A A A A A A A A A AA
८ ८ ८८ च
v च ८८८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ ८ च v च v ८ ८च ८

