\\ ' Eii i\' |‘1:\'। )

S MART A RT

How the
gavel fa| Is
it य०प्त carried may by the utcrrcmurrr at .1
Christie ~ ttuciltm i'lltll Anilinrti Dill “0.5
tmc lot nun
num's 11111०1 signiﬁcant

11.111111111८१. Iilrth. creating a mom tor Iiit- artist
turd (I huge int/I about iict honailrics as a COi'

lcttor. Suhsmiucntiy, 1111- ००411८11 canvas 111८
loaned to tho Peabody Essex Museum for liII’EL'
years. but is on the block once again til Christie's
sale in New York on September 17 with an estimate ०हू१145जिदि१०दि

12४11०11७ mum- mun, painch lor Souza's
debut Gallery one exhibition in London.lctchcd
its impressive value because it contains all the
elements for which hebecame known — thereis

he) ८… u ,८“a

a nude. her belly bursting. sprawled on a bed:
beside it is a table marked by his characteristic

stiii-lile; from a window, one canglimpse a गा)ical Scum landscape; and the attendingrrrale v
a priest? ordoctor? — resembles the numerous
c
the artist painted in his lifetime. Despite
the celebratory title. the painting hints at some
thing dark and uneasy. The unimpeachabie
provenance anti recent history has attracted

both interest and attention, and Christie‘s cannot be blamed forhoping that the auction will
result irt a bidding hioodbath that will further
reinforce Soula's position and value.
But even before Birth comes up forgrabs,
annihersom masterpiece is creatingripples in
the art collecting community with an aggressive estimate of१ 15-10 crore. OnSeptember 10.
at itssecond sale inDelhi. Saﬂ’ronan is oﬂeting
Man and Woman Laughing. the propertyof a

Murnbaicollector. Theprovenance hereis rustas
credible(ithad been part ofAmerlcah collector
Hamid Kovner's Souza collection). and the
painting, though smaller than Birth, is one of
Souu'smore powerful renditions. It depicts a
couple,their grinning lacs distorted, yetthere
is something compelling about IL Painted in

1957 for another Gutie‘y On:exhibition . itbelongs
to Souu's most Iertlie creative period helped
by Kovner's ﬁscal patronage.

a

n

laughing (left)

ortd lirtlr

Thestrong esti matesforboth lotsIs bound to
resultin on evaluation or Souza's estate.The

founder of the Progressive Artists‘ Group in
Mumbai In 1947. Souu lived in London from
1950to I965. Ind in New York thereon" till his
dmth In my; Consideredboth provocative and
controversial. ha hasbeen among the most I 11111।entlal artistsofhisgonemuon. But overthe years.
his peers exceeded his value. whether Mb
Mehra, s It km or, Indeed. V s Guitar-roe,or his
predecessors such at Amrita 511०1'- Gil. While
Sottnh paintinghave been rm auction
--Salimnan Midश्याओ bothhave other\WliG
by theartist In their Septembersales too —them
haa been no maior exhibition ofhiswalls to create a legacy ordialogue athappened In the case
ofGIirondo, whose आगांम्ब wererecently onview
at thoGugEerrheh-n In NewYork. Galtornieholds
thacuttentrocorduihdin'brnnst
mivortrtist
at an more, auctioned at Christie'sdebut sure
in Mumbalin 2०131
Will Soul.equal or bruit that record?The
vcs a lot ०1' welshth 1०
benchmark works re -० n tori 111१ 111 e m11 no: t.
which allows Birth nilalso. especial y givenits
lower estimate In comparison withSultmnnn‘s
cover lot. Mnn an ti Woman toruinus. on the
other hand. 11111 a limitn e u 11111 it n p penI i 111१ .

Ingi But the lacvo" Isn't lust about which
work will commnnu higher value, How rho
gavel Iailr willImpact not lust Sam's standing
In the market but also that market'l gradually

hardeningprices.
"that! SIM Lt८1 11१11। : huntmm mma nrmlr
m: cw:mpmmntmum» notmy.” man our:
nmnhul Inn wllhMlth he it on ll’lﬂlﬂl

