Phool Kumari
Presented by :—

Dclhi Public School, East of Kailash

Once upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had a lovely daughter. Her
name was Phool Kumari. She was a sweet and happy girl and laughed all the time. One
day when she was laughting loudly, her father was angry and scolded her. Her laughter quickly vanished and she became very sad. She was sweet and cheerful as the

flowers but all the gaiety was gone.
८

The king realised what he had done.

He tried to make her happy again but all in

vain. He announced in his kingdom and far off lands that any one who would make
the princess laugh would get huge presents and would also be married to her.
Many peOple came and went away. No one could make the princess laugh.
Finally, a handsome prince, disguised as a “TAMASHAWALA” succeeded in making

the girl. laugh.
Our play shows how various clowns and madaries come and perform and how

finally ‘Phool Kumari’ laughed.

She is wedded to the handsome prince.

Soon after,

they ride away to the far off kingdom of the prince to live happily.

Rudhra The Scarecrow
Presented by—Delhi Public School (Junior Section)

This story is about Rudhra the Scarecrow. Rudhra’s job is to frighten animals
and keep them away from the fields. The farmer is happy with Rudhra’s work so he
gives him a holiday. Rudhra now wants to make friends with the animals but they are

so scared of him that they just run away from him.

So Rudhra feels sad and cries.

frog sees him and agrees to help him make friends with other animals.

A

As they walk

towards the fields they meet the animals who had refused to become friends with
Rudhra. The animals told them how they get hurt by going into the fields to steal the
rice as the scare-crow was not here.

The frog then makes them understand that Rudhra never hurt anyone when he
was doing his job in the fields. It was his job to frighten the animals but he never hurt

anyone.

But whenever he was on a holiday he wanted to be friends with them.

23

