We come to New Delhi—7'0 Stage “Katha Nandan Ki”
Through our Age-old NAUTANKI style.

The ancient art of presenting emotional and spiritual aspects
of social problems through open—air staging of dramas in the
Nautanki style, witnessed by thousands, was a highly developed
art of theatrical performance.
With the advent of foreign rule, old values began to deteriorate and some people, pretending to be modern, began to snivel
at the mention of this art. Those who continued to keep it alive
had to fight for their survival. They began to play to audiences
whose taste had been spoiled by films and their cheap music.
Consequently the Nautanki gave up its traditional heroic or social
displays as well as its classical music accompaniment. Both
were unfortunater replaced by tunes of film songs and uninspiring
cheap plots.
It is creditable performing that artists of Uttar Pradesh
have begun to resuscitate this dying art and are trying to let it
regain its pristine glory of drum-controlled rhythmic performances.
Much damage has been caused to the Nautanki style by
ignorant, self-centered and illiterate managers of this art. It is
not our intention to decry any state or its artists in this field. We
are only trying to revive what we consider to be the best theatre
form for the education as well as cultural and social upliftrnent
of masses.
'KATHA NAN DAN Kl' is a story which has just such an aim.
It has been developed by the very lively drama group DARPAN,
directed by an expert of the eminence, Tripurari Sharma and
staged by the munificence and encouragement of a big sponsor
of art and culture, Shri Govind Hari Singhania.
It is a story which challenges the authority of the higher
castes over their backward brethren. The hero is prepared to
sacrifice his life to hold aloft his revolutionary banner against
casteisrn and prudery. Thus our Hero Nandan translates the
message of Mahatma Gandhi into action and gives a new message
to 22 per cent of our 63.87 crore population we mean those who are
under-privileged and backward.

