Blithe Spirit
A Synopsis Of The Play
Blithe Spirit is an ingenuous comedy woven around a married mystery writer
whose first wife is accidentally conjured from the grave during aseance. The
seance conducted by the priceless Madame Arcati, was viewed as something

of a lark, and was meant to provide source material for the writer’s forthcoming

book.
As the first wife Elvira ‘materialises', total bedlam ensues. For no one can see
her except her husband Charles, whom she sets out to rnonoplise completely
much to the second wife, Ruth’s horror who fears for Charles' sanity as she sees
him ranting and later flirting with an invisible (late) wife.

Ruth decides to secure the help of Madame Arcati to get rid of this irksorne
ghostly rival when she is finally convinced that Elvira's spirit is a very real
presence. But Madame Arcati is carried away by the strength of her own
psychic powers and is both loth, and at a loss, to rid Ruth’s life of this unusual
rival. Ruth blames her for the fiasco and Madame Arcati leaves in a huff.

Meanwhile the wily Elvira plans to return to the other world, this time taking
Charles with her. She plans a little natural accident with the car, so that finally
she can have Charles all to herself for eternity. Unfortunately, Ruth drives out
with the car unexpectedly before Charles and has a fatal accident,
Charles is determined to get rid of Elvira at all costs and he calls Madame Arcati
to hold another seance, but now she makes matters even worse by sadling
Charles with two Blithe Spirits instead of one by also materialising his second
late wife Ruth.
Charles is at his wits' end. Madame Arcati now uses all her skill and art and with
the help of Edith, the maid, a natural medium manages finally to dematerialise
both the spirits.
Charles packs his bags, wishes his two wives adieu asthey lurk unseen but
discontentedly around the house, and leaves for warmer climes and happier

maﬁa“,

L

Cgénd LOW TAR LOW NICOTINE
K I N GS

STATUTORY WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING IS lNJURlOUS TO HEALTH

