भावाभिव्यक्ति-यों का प्रमुखतम संप्रेषक माना जाता था चाहे बी सुखांत
नाटकों में अभिनय कर रहा हो या दुखांत नाटकों में। महिला चरित्र कम
उम के लड़कों के द्वारा अभिनीत किये जाते थे, इसलिये हर कंपनी के
111111111 2 — 3 युबा अभिनेता होते थे।

लंदन को नाट्यशालाओँ और अभिनेता पूरे पाप में चर्चित और
प्रतिष्ठित थे । इंग्लैंड के लोगों के साथ-साथ यहाँ ढेरों विदेशी यात्री भी
आया करते थे। रोज़ औसतन 2…3 हजार दर्शक यहाँ पहुँचते थे।
दरबारी, कानून के विद्यार्थी , सैनिक, मज़दूर, मध्यवर्गीय महिलायें और
चोर उचबककों रने लेकर वेश्याओं तक , यह दर्शक समूह विविधतापूर्ण
था । इम्हें खडे ही कर नाटक देखने के लिये बहुत थोडी भी कीमत

चुकानी पड़ती थी । बैठने की थोडी ज्यादा 1 सबसे महँगे छोटे-छोटे निजी
कक्ष जिम्हें क्यतकैमृ त्वबर्डष्ठ कहा जाता था । प्रस्तुति के दौरान कोई
मध्यान्तर नहीँ होता था - थिएटर के अंदर ही वाइन, बियर, सूरझें
फल-मैस्ने , ताश आदि बेचे जाते थे । तब नाटक के दर्शन उतने ही मुबत्त ,

शोर-गुल करने वाले होते थे, जितने आज खेलों के दर्शक होते हैं। इन
दर्शकों को शॉल और एकाग्रचित्त बनाये रखने की जिम्मेदारी नाटयालंख

के गठन और अभिनेताओं के कौशल यर निर्भर करती थी ।

play. Shakespeare wrote many of his plays while
maintaining such a schedule. To a degree, the style of a
text determined the style of the planning. Elizabethan
actors, no doubt, dealt with the rhythms of dramatic
verse more readily then their modern counterparts, since
poetry was a chief medium of the contemporary theatre
as it no longer is. In a theatre where words were so
important, a strong and supple voice must have been one
of the first requirements of an actor. The face was
expected to be the actor's chief visual medium of
communication in both comedy and tragedy. Female
roles were played by boy actors; so, at any given time a
company must have sought to keep two or three boy
players to play females.
London playhouses were one of the main sights of
London and English players had a high reputation. They
drew many visitors from abroad as well as from amongst
the English people. Perhaps between two and three
thousand people visited on an average day. Plays were
shown in the afternoon. The
gentry was full of legal students,
soldiers, labourers, women from

the middle class, thieves,
prostitutes a wide range of
५ audience. To stand in the yard they

ERooms" the fee was even higher
There were no interrnissions and
‘31,, wine, beer, nuts, playing cards

1;: were sold in the theatre by
३- vendors duringthe performance
.दृ: :2,.
~13;Audlences were much more free
।सेकेi क्या 1 4
r
"L-‘s’j
and expressrve then sunllarto the
हूँ हैं
3' ड्डिध्याधारंष्ठ spectators of the
contemporary age. Like modern
डे sports spectators. Keeping the

८८८1 111: 5L l 1"३९ है a';
हूँ

.

11-3 1३ 11

' audience quiet and attentive was
again a matter of skill of the
जीम-,performers and the power of the
play.

