अदला-बदली के लिए बूथ को लंदन आमात्रिश किय और इसका
परिणाम भी मिला, दौरे को अंतत: कामयाबी प्राप्त हुईं। बूथ के साथ

इआगो व औथेलौ की भूमिकाओं को अदला-बदली जेम्स' आं नील ने
भी की। कालान्तर में बूथ ने 'ओनील के बेटे यूजीन' औ नील द्वारा
लिखे नाटक साया डेज़ जर्नी इनटू नाहीं में मूर (औथेलो) के
चरित्र-चित्रण की भूरि…भूरि प्रशंसा की।
4 दिसम्बर स्रन् 2007 , डॉनमार वेयर हाऊस, लण्डन में प्रारंभ हुए

माइकेल ग्रैप्रडंज़ निर्देशित आंथेलौ में च्चिटेल एजोफोर ने आंथेलो,
एवान मैकग्रैगर ने इआगो और कैली पीली ने डंल्डोमोना को भूमिकाएँ
निभाईं। इण्टरनेट की मेहरबानी रने 2000 पाउण्ड की कामत पर बिक्री

टिकटों वाली इस प्रस्तुति में सिर्फ एजीफांर क्रो प्रशंसा मिली, बाकी

biography of Olivier, tickets for the stage production were
notoriously hard to get). The film version still holds the
record for the most Oscar nominations for acting ever
given to a Shakespeare film -Olivier, Finlay, Maggie

Smith, (as Desdemona) and Joyce Redrnan (as Emilia,
Iago's wife) were all nominated for Academy Awards.
Olivier was among the last white actors to be greatly
acclaimed as Othello, although the role continued to be
played by such performers Paul Scofield at the Royal
National Theatre in 1980; Anthony Hopkins in the BBC
Shakespeare television production on videotape (1981);
and Michael Garnbon in the London stage production
directed by Alan Ayckbourn in 1 990.

सभी अभिनेताओं को आलोचना हुई। इस भूमिका के लिए उन्हें लॉरेन्स
आँलीवियर पुरस्कार भी मिला ।

लिन् 2009 के डायरी रने मार्च तक हास्य भूमिकाओं के लिए ख्याति
प्राप्त अभिनेता ढोनी हैरी, नॉर्दन ब्रॉडसाहड के वैस्ट यौर्कशायर

When Patrick Stewart played Othello at the Shakespeare
Theater Company in Washington, DC. he portrayed the
Moor as a white man with the other characters played by
black actors.

ग्लेहाऊस, लीडस में मंचित होने बाली प्रस्तुति में शीर्ष भूमिका
निभाएँगे।

Actors have alternated the roles of lago and Othello in
productions to stir audience interest since the nineteenth
century. TWo of the most notable examples of this role
swap were William Charles Macready and Samuel
Phelps at Drury Lane (1873) and Richard Burtion and

John Neville at the Old Vic Theatre (1955). When Edwin
Booth's tour of England in 1880 was not well attended,
Henry Irving invited Booth to alternate the roles of Othello
and Iago with him in London. The stunt renewed interest
in Booth's tour. James O'Neil also alternated the roles of
Othello and Iago with Booth, with the latter's
complimentary appreciation of O'Neill's interpretation of
the Moor being immortalized in O'Neill's son, Eugene's
play Long Day's Journey Into Night. Othello opened at the
Donrnar Warehouse in London on the 4th of December,
2007, directed by Michael Grandage, with Chiwetel
Ejiofor as Othello, Ewan Mc Gregor as Iago and Kelly
Reilly as Desdernona. Despite tickets selling as high as
2000 on web-based vendors, only Ejiofor was praised by
critics, winning the Laurence Olivier Award for his
performance; with McGregor and Reilly's performances
receiving largely negative notices.

Paul Robeson as Othello and Peggy Ashcroﬂ as Desdem
ona at the
Savoy Theatre, London, 1930

From Febuary to March 2009, actor and comedian Lenny
Henry will take the lead in a Northern Broadsides
production atthe West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds.

