The Persecution and Assassination of
Jean-Paul Marat as performed by the
Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton under
the Direction of Monsieur de Sade
Weiss' play within a play combines historical fact with dramatic fantasy. The
action is set at the start of the nineteenth century in. the asylum of'Charenton ,
run by ’ the Abbe Coulmier. The hospital's most famous patient is the
Marquis de Sade (a favourite author of the French surrealists), condemned to.
conﬁnement by the rising French bourgeoisie under Napoleon for
"endangering public morals." First conﬁned to prison, Sade spent his last
years (1801 to his death in 1814) conﬁned in Charenton together with other
political prisoners as well as the genuinely deranged. As part of his treatment, Coulmier allows his patients to perform in dramas
written and staged by Sade. Over time the plays are recognised as a source
of entertainment and amusement for the leading layers of the new French
society who travel from Paris to attend the performances. Playwright Weiss
steps aside and allows Sade to appear as author of a piece devoted to the
leader of the French Revolution, Jean-Paul Marat, who was murdered in his
bath in 1793 by a young Royalist supporter, Charlotte Corday. Marat was a *
journalist, member of the Cordeliers Club and was widely regarded as the

radical conscience of the revolution up until his assassination.
1793 is also a decisive: date in the development of- the Revolution itself. In
order to ward off foreign invasion the aspiring bourgeoisie were forced again
to mobilise the broad masses plagued by hunger and discontent. The radical
demands were increasingly raised. The revolution enters a new and far
bloodier phase.
The entire action of the play takes place inside the lunatic asylum. Sade has
allocated the role ' of various French revolutionary ﬁgures to the partly
unpredictable/partly ecstatic asylum inmates. From aside, the asylum
director intervenes occasionally to curb excesses on the part of the
patients/performers. The format of the play '1. aws heavin on the Theatre of the Arb’surd of Antonin Artaud, which, exaggerated the "alienation"
component of Brechtian Theatre and emphasized the grotesque to the level
of the illogical. The COIIClLlSlOIl of Marat/Sade is clear from the very
beginning and well known—Corday murders Marat. According to the
precepts of absurd theatre, Weiss/Sade has a great deal of free rein in
determining the action leading up to the denouement.

