प्रेम य, n at
run; 35‘me

65);! my history of madness
A I1d

The history ofsexuality

_

Foucault’s History of kindness was not written from a

psychiatric, .or even a scientiﬁc Viewpoint, but rather as a study of madness
itself and its conceptualization. He delineated madness as anrobject of
perception within a ‘social space’, an object structured in different ways
according to historical specificity, an object of perception produced by the
social practices at work. He traced the history of madness through four
different phases:
ﬁrst, from the medieval notion of madness as a kind of chaotic natural
force . existing outside man and derived from biblical concepts such as God’s

will, Satan and the end of time and the world and enacted in Miracle plays
and mimes.
_
During the second phase, the Renaissance, madness began to be depicted
through literature, phiIOSOphy and art as something, which existed in man.
Madness retained a symbolic public role, epitomized by the figure of the
Fool, who could subvert reason with folly — demonstrating the madness of
reason itself.
The third phase, i.e. the classical age (1650 -— 1800) effectively silenced
the madness that had been given imagery freedom in the Renaissance, as the
confinement of lunatics became a common practice. Often, little or no
distinction was made criminals, beggars, and the insane — as the reason for
confinement was primarily economic in an age where work equated to
redemption and idleness to rebellion. The relationship of the classical age to
madness was an ambivalent one,_ where mad family members were
considered a subject of shame and scandals, and were hidden away in
asylums, yet those same asylums exhibited their inmates. Madness became a
thing to look at, to study, and contain. It was considered a social failure
where the asylum mirrored the bourgeois authoritarian order.
The fourth and final stage of the history of madness is the 20th Century,
the age of Freud and psychoanalysis. Freud, according to Foucault,
abolished the regime of silence employed by the asylums and made tne mad
talk. Yet the analyst mediated that talk — psychiatric language did not allow
madness to speak, but remained a monologue of reason about language. For

