the actual tulgizration of things-2., Ii ccnmpt that arrlv’SS ii - - ३ ३ ८३3 ३3

३३' ३९ Wle

of creation. No image satisfies rue tuiiess it is at the ७८3 - F1 : 5.;zizj’9‘v’lcdge,

unless it carries with it its 83.3lliiil'ilmiiti as well as it: 3 -३३ 5". My mlﬂd,
exhausted in: discursive reasrin, wants to be caught in the tri'heels of a new,

ahsolute £it‘;t“.'il"c'ltivll. For me it like a supreme reorganr'v; ३ :. Eiich only
the laws
illogie participate _ and in which there triumph -८ «a; ७.-७0२८'दृड्डेदृर्तदु७' of a
new l\deaning. This Meaning which has been lost, in the disorder of drugs
and which presents the appearance of a profound intuihgence of the
.३ contradictory phantasms of the sleep. This Meaningis, नु victory of the

i mind over itself, and although it is irreducible by reaSon’, it exists, but only
inside the mind. It order, it is intelligence, it is the signifier—mce of chaos. But
it does not accept this chaos as such, it interprets it, and because it interprets
it, it loses it. It is the logic of illogie. And this is all one can say. My lucid
unreasou is not afraid of chaos.
I renounce nothing of that which is the Mind. I want only to transport my
mind elsewhere with its laws and organs. I do not surrender myself to th
e
sexual mechanism 'of the mind, but on the contrary within this mechanis
mI
seek to isolate those discoveries which lucid reason does not pro
vide. I
surrender to the fever of dreams, but only in order to derive from
them new
laws. I seek multiplication, subtlety, and the intellectual eye
in delirium, not
rash Vaticination. There is a knife I do not forget. But it a kni
fe halfway into
my dreams, which I keep inside myself, which I do not al
low to come to the
frontier of lucid senses. That which belongs to reann of i
mage is irreducible
by reason must remain within the image or be anni
hilated. Nevertheless,
there is a reason in images; there are images, which ar
e clearer in the world
of image~filled vitality. There is the immediate t
eeming of the mind. a
multiform and a dazzling insinuation of animal
s. ' ‘his insensible and
thinking dust is organized according to the laws wh
ich it derives within
itself, outside the domain of clear reason or of
thwarted consciousness or

reason. In the exalted realm of images, illusion
properly speaking, or
material error. does not exist, nnzeh iess the illusion of k
nowledge: but this is
all the more reason why the meaning of new kn
owledge can and. must
descend into the reality of life.
The truth of life lies in the impulsiveness of m
atter. The mind' of man has

been poisoned bx: concepts. Do not ask him to be content,
ask him only to be
calm, t

o believe that he has found 'iis place. But only tl
ic madman is really

calm.

