Director’s Note
This play took me to various landscapes, which theatre as 1111 art medium

should handle deeply. My understanding of the text gave rise to various
questions, in turn, encouraging me to explore theatre as an art medium.
Peter Weiss wrote this play in 1962, a time when Marxism confronted many
culture-related questions. Since, these questions (metamorphosng and
increasing in magnitude) have assumed paramount importance to become an
integral part of the cultural studies in our times. I have tried to approach the है
play with all the changes that have taken placd in the last four decades.

The text asks a complex, yet elementary question: Given the current global
situation, can revolution, as a mass action, co-exist (even interlaced) with the
varied localised micro—level actions? Further, the text also challenges the
common conservative perceptions of issues like madness and sexuality.
The locatiOn in the text (the asylum), the main action (staging the murder),
the motivation of other events like the celebration of death and the ‘evilness’
and ‘holiness’ of a community are curious issues, which my .traditional
background has helped a great deal to come to terms with..

‘Kattavarayan Kaluvettram Samang Kaluvettram’ , ' is a ritual (based on a
legend of the Bhakti period) performed in Trichy, Madurai District of Tamil
Nadu', where Kaluvettram means beheading. Kattavarayan was a ‘ heroic ३ - ‘
ﬁgure in the Dalit community who fell in love with a Brahmin girl. The king
beheaded him for his ‘crime’. Since, the act of beheading is enacted and
performed as a ritual by the Dalit community.
;

What sort of pleasure and/or pain does the community get in performing the
‘act of killing’ repeatedly? What thoughts and desires lead them to do so? In
addition, how the ‘urbanised’ camouﬂage Artaud’s truth.

The production is anything but the ﬁnale of the process with which it began.
The performance today is like a rehearsal without‘ a beginning or an end. I
hope the text lives on in everyone’s memory.
'
Finally, I am thankful to the School, each technical department, my- _
classmates and particularly, first year friends, who have helped me in the '
production.

I am grateful to Prof. Anuradha Kapur, who has guided and encouraged me
during the three—year course.

