ह्माऱ ० ._ पुष्टि, "वृ c

/ 77726 if”
A {w «tow …....... .. ’A ll the perils of‘expression must befaced,

..................... . . the shackles of ’sacreds ’ must be broken

I

- M u kti bodh

Gajanan Madhav Muktibodh, the epitome of modern progressive Hindi literature
in India. Apoet and thinker, his literature and thought constitute a serious, engaged

and rigorous interrogation of ever more repressive tendencies of Indian state and
democracy.
Circle Theatre Company celebrates the Poet's Pre-Centenary Birth Anniversary
with this heartfelt endeavour of a theatrical expression of Muktibodh's poetry
encompassed in Mukti.
This time as a part of the Promotion of Young Talents we take the pleasure of
inviting Mr. Kuldeep Kunal, a young Hindi Poet, writer, director and a nucleus of
Circle Theatre Company for directing this production. I hope you will enjoy it and
bless him for carrying the goals of the organization forward with production of
cerebral excellence for the future course of Indian Progressive Theatre Movement.
This production is under ofCTC's yearlong celebration - Tribute to Jayanta Das 2014.
Thank you,
Wishes and regards,

B api Bose
Artistic Director
Circle Theatre Company
New Delhi

TKé ovaig‘dCo/n:
Mantra: 'Theatre is a continuous process‘.
Formed in 2002, under the leadership of Mr. Bapi Bose, one of the most prominent
radical theatre director of Contemporary Indian Theatre. Circle Theatre is a
professional theatre company, meant for theatre ofstrength, courage and substance
— theatre ofcerebral excellence.
Having the honour of it’s Maiden Production and Venue opening in Bharat Rang
Mahotsav (the International Theatre Festival ofNSD), the USP ofthe organization
is the volume of research oriented work in diverse subjects incorporated in its
production, which led to a unique record for this organization within a brief span of
time in the country. In a row, all of its productions stood at par excellence in terms
of its ‘artistic quality', 'expression', 'message' (Socrates, Julius Caesar Ki Aakhree
Saat Din, Ekla Chalo Re, Pratham Parth, Parampurush, Seventeenth July etc.)
which resulted 'Best Production ofthe year’; Sahitya Kala Parishad; Govt. ofNCT
Delhi, participated in NSD's International 'Theatre Festival — Bharat Rang
Mahotsav and its Satellite Theatre Festivals including other festival of National
importance etc. many times.

Apart from this, Circle Theatre has been regularly engaged in organizing training,
workshops, symposiums, in-house classes, theatre festivals, various cultural
programmes, promotion ofyoung talents, awards, felicitations, humanitarian work
and ﬁnancial assistance in distress & socially challenged people etc.

