ideas' have gone into the dark abyss ofoblivion. 'Technology' has become a means

to serve the sinister ends of the most virulent and diplomatic minds. 'Hatred and
avarice' are being enrobed as virtues. In the face of such onslaughts, Muktibodh's is
a infallible voice urging to preserve one's conscience and humanity.

Muktibodh's poetry not only lends a voice to the numbing humanity but also evokes
the attributes necessary to remain 'humane' in its truest sense - the attribute known

as self-conﬂict. This inner—conﬂict gives birth to 'rationality' and 'consciousness'.
While exposing the falsity of our lives, his poetry gives us the mantra (hymns) to
begin the journey ofselfdiscovery. The sole purpose behind weaving the poetry of
Muktibodh into a theatrical form is to brace ourselves with the arsenal to combat
these brazen and trying times.

We DWI»:
Kuldeep Kunal started his theatre voyage at Haryana Gyan
Vigyan Samiti, Rohtak more than a decade ago. Since then,
he has been practicing theatre as his passion as well as

profession. After his Masters in Hindi literature (Rohtak
University) and Theatre & Television Studies (Panjabi
University, Patiala) he worked as writer and director for
theatre and media majorly in North India. His writings have
been performed at Bagota International Festival Columbia,
Colours of India, Mauritius, Bharat Rang Mahotsav 2010

and 2014. His original writings include Che- As Reference,
The Land weaver; Reh Jayega Dhai Aakhar, Akka Amoli,
Gauhatya, Plastic Money. His play Eklavya Uwach has been highly acclaimed
nationally and internationally.'I‘he play has been translated and performed in
Kannada and Bangla. He has also adapted classics like George Orwell's Animal
Farm, Shakespeare's A Mid-Summer Night ’5 Dream and Merchant of Venice. He
has also translated Tagore's Rath Ki Rassi and Bratya Basu‘s Seventeenth July for
Circle Theatre Company. His directorial ventures include Bipolars, 0 Ibsen,
Jhalkari. A poet at heart, his commitment towards social justice and
meaningfulness of life has always been eloquent in all his works. Mr. Kuldeep
Kunal is a member ofthe Circle Theatre Company, New Delhi.

M4 0M1:
Abhi Tomar

Abhishek Sharma

Ajay Kataria

Akhilesh Kumar Dwivedi

Atul Pandey
Madhu Bhagat

Ishu
Manas Rastogi

Nippurn Kaushal

Pradeep Kataria

Raj esh Kumar
Sonia Mahajan

Sidhant Sharma
Sukriti Khurana (Suki)

Subhash Chander Tyagi

Vipin Narayan Jha

Vishal Chaudhary

We CW:
Stage Manager

: Sukriti Khurana (Suki)

Assistant Stage Manager

: Abhi Tomar

Set

: Kuldeep Kunal

Set Execution

: Dalveer Singh

