-_……

precious weed, Bamboo ) were to be cleared, and in their
place man-made forests of cheap timber were planted.
Woods that could be used for building railway tracks, build
ships and for export abroad. By Contrast Kipling's Jungle
emphasizes that this is the anirnals' home, and has space for
every animal. Rules and regulations and a jungle law govern
all transactions; here MAN is this jungle's greatest threat for
he hunts animals for pleasure, and rages entire forests to the
ground. In fact Kipling's view seems like the in-ecological
view of the 1 990's (And remember the Jungle Book appeared
in 1893.) Nature knows best, and man really can't interfere
with it without causing damage to himself. it is in this delicately balanced ecosystem that Mowgli must grow in to a
young man, His educational process is one of understanding
the jungle; ”every rustle in the grass, every breath of the warm
night, every screatch of a bat's claws meant as much to him
as the work of his office means to a businessman". And what
he cannot learn from Bhalloo and Bagheera, he must learn
from actual experience. He must respect the boundaries of

others and truly believe 'we be of one blood, you and l; for
transgress them is to count disaster, for one cannot destroy
a part without destroying the whole, These lessons, learnt
during carefree childhood, hold good for Mowgli through a

gawley adolescence, and finally adulthood, responsibility
and identity.
Outside this orderly world are the bandar-log, anarchists who
have their very one concept of' freedom. In our production
they are not unlike many of us drawn by a freedom of choicebetween different consumer goods; Rules and officialdorn
are other than to them, Instead they cryout 'Give me my
freedom' Mowgli's kidnapping and encounter with theirs subculture has important learnings for us, growing up in the
consumerist culture of today.
In the second half of the play, Mowgli has come of age-he is

17 years old now. It is the time for him to leave the sheltered
world of the forest, he must step into the world outside. He

must pay the debts of childhood, come to terms with adulthood-and finally seek his own path. But even as he walks
alone, he is secure in the knowledge he has gained from
those who nurtured him. For a time comes in every person‘s
life when he must cast off the slough and move forward.
_

