Delhi Art Theatre
Delhi Art Theatre has earned a distinctive place in the capital for their bold and
imaginative approach towards theatre.
the best in theatre.

They strive to combine the best in literature with

Delhi Art Theatre has many outstanding performances to its credit. Kesro, Godan,
Dada Damodar. Kanjoos, Post Ofﬁce and Shodshi—all were recognized as very good theatre. ,

In the ﬁeld of opera Delhi Art Theatre achieved outstanding successes.

Call of the

Valley was our ﬁrst attempt in this genre. Actually it would be more correct to call it a song-

drama. It was followed by Rukhe-Khet which attained a larger measure of integration
in its musical form. For the ﬁrst time stress was laid on proper srutis.
From these ﬁrst steps emerged the opera Heer Ranjha which solidly laid the founda-

tions of a modern and at the same time indigenous form of opera.

It was acclaimed as a

landmark in theatre by the critics and the public alike.

The opera Prithviraj Chauhaa is the latest offering by the Group. It tries to capture
the spirit of 12th Century India. It vividly depicts the inner strife, court intrigues and
jealousies which disrupted life and laid the country open to foreign invasion. The beautiful
and haunting melodies of the opera supported by, thunderous choruses strive to portray the

changing moods and situations.
The problems of producing operas are tremendous. To ﬁnd a large and adequate cast

which can sing and act is a big problem in itself.

Production cost is enormous too.

The

Group‘s status is still amateur, but time has past when such productions could be handled on

these lines. Unless it is recognized by the authorities and the patrons of art that this form
of theatre has to be nurtured and adequate ﬁnancial grants made to put it on some sort of
professional basis, it would be impossible to carry on.

OFFICE BEARERS

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

President

SHEILA VATS
VED VYAS

INDER KUMAR GUJRAL

SWADESH KUMAR
Vice-President

ASHOK RAMPAL
J. D. 'I‘Y'I‘LER.

SURENDRA GULATI

General Secretary

DINA NATH

H' VATS

BALWANT GARGI

Treasurer

GULSHAN KAPOOR

AMRIT NAYAR

PREETAM SINGH MANCHANDA

Address .'
Flat No. 36, Shankar Market
Connaught

Circus

NEW DELHI-1

