SYNOPSES
A CT I
Preparations are in full swing for Sanyogta‘s Swayamber (an ancient Indian
ceremony

at which princesses chose their husbands) and the Rajs'uya Yajna which is intended
to be held
to establish Jai Chand, King of Kanauj, father of Sanyogta, as the most powerfu
l king of the

age.
Veerchand, Jai Chand‘s minister, checks up the preparations. Jai Chand,
on ﬁnding
that all other princes except Prithviraj Chauhan had accepted his invitation,
takes his revenge
by ordering the latter’s statue to be installed at the gate as a watchman.

Roopmati, wife of Jai Chand‘s cousin, comes wailing with the news that her husband
had been killed by Prithviraj in order to foil the observance of the Rajsuya Yajna. Roopmati
puts down this tragedy to Jai Chand’s enmity with Prithviraj. Jai Chand wants to call oﬂ‘
the
Swayamber and the Yajna. Veerchand, Rani Jhunai (Jai Chand’s wife) and Roopmati implore

Jai Chand that though the Yajna could not be held, the Swayamber should be held as all the
princes had arrived. Jai Chand reluctantly orders the preparations for the Swayamber to be
completed.
Meanwhile Sanyogta has received a letter from Prithviraj saying that he would be there
at the Swayamber, at any cost. She weaves beautiful dreams of her future happiness.
Anna, her old nurse, warns her not to sing songs of spring lest a dreadful torrent
destroy her beautiful garden. On learning from Sanyogta that Prithviraj would be coming to
. the Swayamber, Anna further warns Sanyogta that it would touch off a war and threaten the
whole country.

The. statue of Prithviraj is brought to the Court and is given a prominent place as an

insulting gesture.

'

'

Jai Chand looks with satisfaction at the statue, and narrates the causes of enmity
between him and Prithviraj.

He pledges that whatever the sacriﬁce, he will see to Prithviraj‘s

fall.
Finishing touches are given to the preparations for the Swayamber.
Swayamber gathering. The royal priest blesses .lai Chand. The Rajas, candidates
for Sanyogta’s hand, are welcomed. Sanyogta is blessed by the royal priest and her father.

Sanyogta goes round and eventually decides to garland Prithviraj’s statue.
Prithviraj enters the court challengingly and carries oﬁ‘ Sanyogta.
Jaichand is livid with rage.

The fratricidal enmity among Rajputs becomes deeper than ever.

