this news.
battle.

He tells her that he had ordered the court to assemble to prepare for the coming

Preparations for the Durbar. Rumours are current that Dhir Pundir, a young noble,
is going to be nominated by Prithviraj as the Chief Minister. The old guard is jealous, particularly Hahuli Rai. (It may be noted here that in his battle to win Sanyogta‘s hand Prithviraj
had lost the majority of his leading warriors.)

Prithviraj announces his decision of nominating Dhir as the Chief Minister. The
decision provokes opposition. and Dhir is threatened. The Raja carries out his decision and
honours Dhir with Chief Ministership.
orders his arrest.

Hahuli Rai revolts and quits the court. Prithviraj

Scene 2
_ People belonging to all strata come to the palace to seek- an audience with the

Maharaja as a messenger had brought a letter from Shahab-ud-din Ghauri.
Ketabi dares not spoil the Raja‘s pleasure.

…

Rani lchhani boldly takes the responsibility upon herself.

There are wild speculations about Prithviraj~thought to be the Kingbf Kings and the
honour and glory of the Kshatriyas—who is now immersed in his pleasure, neglecting the
affairs of the State. They appeal to him to listen to the approaching war drums.
Prithviraj appears and wants to know_ the cause of their agitation. Shahab-ud-din’s
messenger arrives and reads out the letter: “Surrender half of the Punjab. Accept my suzerainty. Send your son, Prince Ram Singh, in my service.”
This opens Prithviraj’s eyes and he roars:

“This sword is my answer.“

Prithviraj rouses his people to action in face of this danger.

He orders the release of Chamand, a noble warrior, whom he had put in prison in a

ﬁt of anger.

Chamand‘s shackles are removed in the presence of everyone.

Prithviraj makes Chamand his Commander-in-Chief, and the later bows to the corn-

mand of his master forgetting in this hour of peril, the injustice done to him earlier.
Prithviraj orders the army to march, and disperses the court.

Sanyogta and Prithviraj are torn by inner conﬂicts. On the eve of her beloved husband’s departure for battle, Sanyogta feels tormented between the emotions of a wife and those
of a brave Rajput woman. Prithviraj recollects thundering victories of the past and broods
over his present weakened position, over the intrigues and treachery which surround him. '
But he realises that even the weak arms of a Rajput can cause a tremor in the earth. Sanyogta
offers to go with him to the battle-ﬁeld, but he tells her that he is strong enough to win

another victory and come back victorious.
Sanyogta bids him farewell and says that she would wait for his triumphant return

even though it might mean the death of her own father.

