23RD MARCH 2015 Kamani Auditorium, 8 pm
KA U M U D I
Nominations:

Best Actor in a Lead Role (Male) (Two
Nomi nations)
Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Male)
Best Director

Produced by: Indian Ensemble and Riad
Mahmood Education and Arts Foundation

Directed by: Abhishek Majurndar
Director's Note

Language: Hindi
Duration: 125 minutes (With Interval)

Kaumudi was developed in 2013-14, over a
period of 8 months, with a reading in
Murnbai, a workshop and then month long

About the Play
Kaumua’i is about a rite of passage. Using the
"moonlit timeless night" when Krishna delivers
his sermon to Arjuna as its central trope, this
play explores the dynamics between an
estranged father—son duo who play Eklavya's
ghost and Abhimanyu respectively, in a
theatre, in late 1960's Allahabad. The father,
Satyasheel, who is a great actor and has almost
lost his sight, is at his final three performances.
His Son, Paritosh, who grew up with the void of
not having a father by his side, has come to
challenge not only the father but also his entire
school of thought.
Kaumudi is hinged on three central questions:
Whose life is more valuable, an older or a
younger person's? Is personal ethic more
important than public ethic? Does art have a
function, and do we make art or does art make
us? It also holds up a mirror to it and questions
theatre: Does theatre have a meaning or is it
our ego being massaged? Whose theatre is
it—that of the audience or of the practitioner?

rehearsal in Bangalore. The play set up a few
interesting challenges for the team.
Firstly, how do we visualize a form within
the play that is not completely historically
accurate and yet owns its logic as a mix of
folk and company theatre styles, as part of
the narrative. We had to create a way of
performing it, speaking it, re writing it,

creating its music and a way of lighting it so
that it looks and sounds historical and yet is
completely created anew. The second
challenge was to move between the
theatricality of the play within the play and
then to turn to stage realism in the other
scenes.Third|y, we had to create a visual,

aural and acting language that steers away
from the images and ideas of the
characters of the Mahabharata that we as
Indians tend to easily associate with the
television series or with any of the many
local forms.

(cantd on next page)

Kaumudi has been inspired by two texts: Ana nd’s
Malayalam novel Vyasam Vigneswaram and
Jorge Luis Borges' essay Blindness.

27

