25स्का MARCH 2015 Little, Theatre Umup, rs pm

FALL OF A KING...
BURHA MANUHOR BABE DESH NAI
Nomi nations:
Best Director, Best Stage Design

Best Innovative Sound Design

Best Choreography,
Best Costume Design, Best Light Design

Produced by: Oftas (Omni Flame the Art
Society)
Directed by: Palash Protirn Mech
Director's Note

Language: Assamese
Duration: 80 minutes

About the Play
The play based on Shakespeare's King Lear,
looks at the theme of old age and its tragedies
in our present times through folk art forms
using audio visual techniques. Through the text
of the play King Lear, Thomas Hardy‘s poem
Dead Man Walking and Hiren Bhatachariya's
poem Mur Desh, we look at contemporary
household situations of our old folks.

The old King Lear suffered from deep despair,
dwelling only on the negative and saw
nothing at all in life to cheer his soul. The loss
of friends and loved ones, followed by his
beloved's rejection of him, deepened his
gloom and he was unable to rebound back.
This is what happening to old people in our
day to day life. In the play Goun Burha and the
old woman symbolize Lear's disappointment;
same as in modernised civilized societies,
where the old noble souls just die searching
loving people to cheer up their soul.

We treat the play in all possible ways to
convey the theme in the CHOTAL NATAK
format; thus discovering many elements of
inspirational folk art which can be part of our
n e w a rt i st i c j o u r n e y.

The complete life, the perfect pattern,
includes old age as well as youth and
maturity. The beauty of the morning and the
radiance of noon are good, but it would be
very silly if a person draws the curtains and
turned on the light in order to shut out the
tranquility of the evening. Old age has its
pleasures, which though different, are not
less than the pleasures of youth.
The fact that we all will become old one day
fascinates me a lot. I saw that my ancestors
had a wonderful old age with beautiful
surroundings and good household situations.
They had time to spend with relatives or
descendants. But with time, we are getting in
tough times and spaces where life is losing
humanity. We feel there is no homage for old
age. In our societies, we have gotten used to
seeing the Lear tragedy again and again
where Lear dies again and again. ln this
competitive world we are losing our noble
behavior towards our seniors.

To portray this aspect of life to my folk, we
perform the play in open air in front of my
grandfather's home. We used the name
CHOTAL NATOK, like the CHOTAL BIHU which

was popular once and included the folk art
performances in the play. The play is an
attempt to revive the tradition of CHOTAL
BIHU celebrations as a form of theatre art.

43

