Nom i nees

Director's Note

I have been constantly searching through
each of my plays keeping in front the question
of "Is it possible to express poetic acting
through traditional art forms?" The play,
”Chitrapata” is an extension of this search .
Reason for selecting this play is that it is a part
of Karnataka's folklore and forms a plot within
"Janapada Ramayana". This play has been
inspired by one of the folk poems of
Helavanakatte Giriyamma. Our folk artists
have analyzed the root Ramayana and have
given it their own unique perspective in this
play. The literature of this play has its own
poetic background. The play takes a pro-

wornen stance and tries to search for answers
to the atrocities being inflicted on wornankind
provide through Seetha's character. There is a
lot of scope to inculcate and adopt elements
of Naatya Shaastra and traditional art forms.
In this play, l have adopted the unique screen
design that is used in the beginning of Yaksha
Gaanas to pray to lord Ganesha. I have
adopted the "JogeraAata" form on stage
which is a folk art form wherein stories are told
through songs. As l have depicted Rama in a
negative shade l have implemented Yakaha
Gaana's "Raakshasa Oddolaga" screen dance
for Rama's entry. As the Ravana of this play is
positive in nature, I have adorned him with

YakshaGaana's "RajaVesha". For Seetha's
delicate movements l have adapted
movements from the Odissi dance form. In
accordance with the characters of the play, l
have imparted training in the usage of the
"Tribhangi" & "Vaishaakha" stances alone in
the expression of emotions. The images seen
in the paintings used in the play have been
designed by adapting the "Togalu Gombe
Aata" style observed in folk based art forms.

54

Manjunath L Badiger
Best Director, Best Choreographer, Best
Stage Design

A graduate from Ninasarn, Manjunath L.
Badiger was also an actor in the Ninasarn's
Tirugata. He learnt Yakshagana professionally
at the Udupi Yakshagana Kendra and holds
Janapada Diploma from Rarnanagara
Janapada Loka. Presently he is working as an
artist & director in the team. He has directed
Harinabhisarana, Chitrapata Ramayana,
Dashanana Swapna Siddi, Sathyagraha,
Khaidi, and many more. As an actor he has
acted in Ashadada Oridu Dina, A Mani,
Harinabhisarana, Seetha Swayamvara,
Chirakumara Sabha, Vishake etc.

