2603 MARCH 2015 Tsunami ,rxlatllmligm. B pm

A STRAIGHT PROPOSAL
Nomi nations:

B e st Actor (Male)
Best Actor in a supporting Role (Male)
(Two Nominations)
Best Director, Best Original Script

Produced by: Unicorn Actors' Studio
Directed by: Happy Ranajit
Language: Hindi
Director's Note
Duration: 120 minutes

About the Play

Nobody knows whether ghosts exist or not
but still many of us do believe that they exist.
Yet people like Dhruv, Mitesh, Arnar, Kranti,

Turag and thousands like them exist but
society ignores their existence or
crirninalizes their needs. Who is forcing them
to live like ghosts? Are they supposed to be
like that? Can love be considered a crime?

The play covers the life of Mitesh the
protagonist of the play, the ups and downs
in his life which goes parallel to the ups and
downs of the LGBT movement in India. The
play unfolds a series of Mitesh's love stories
and his relationship with his brother and
father which bring out the several
problems in the gay community. A secret
life and the mysterious death of Mitesh in
this play are not just incidents, they
become metaphors for us.

The pink triangle was one of the Nazi
concentration camp badges, used to identify
male prisoners who were sent there
because of their homosexuality. We all
condemn Hitler for his deeds but many
years later the Supreme Court of India has
behaved the same way by crirninalizing
homosexuality on 11-12-13. This play has
been written as an artistic response to the
Supreme Court decision on article 377. It

speaks about the problems and possibilities
of LGBT culture in India in the current
political scenario in India. It's about a man
who is in constant search of a committed
relationship and who wants live with dignity.
Each scene of this play is a portion of a diary
of an imaginary character Mitesh. Each page
of the diary relates to the movement of
LGBT in India, an article number of IPC which

makes every act of an individual a crime in
some or the other way.

A story of one diary, four love stories, one
phone call, four days of love, one promise,

four lovers and one gunshot ...a straight
p ro p o s a | .

59

