u

A

MEMBERS OF THE JURY

RanﬁtKapoor

Ranjit Kapoor is a well-known and celebrated
theatre personality of the Indian theatre
community. Ranjit Kapoor's theatre
experience includes Woyzeck, Bichhu, Lux in
Tenebriss, Bakri, Enter a Free Man, Ek Ruka
Hua Fais/a, Poor Bitos and Mukhya Mantri,
amongst numerous others. He has also

written for numerous critically acclaimed and
commercially successfully feature films such
as Khakee, The Legend of Bhagat Sing/7, The
Rising (Mangal Pandey), Jane Bhi Do Yaro,
Bandit Queen, Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa, Lajja
and Chintu ji. Ranjit Kapoor has won the
esteemed Sahitya Kala Parishad Sarnrnan, Z
Cine Award, and Sangeet Natak Academy
Award for Lifetime Achievement in Direction.

Sa u ra b h S h u kl a

Saurabh Shukla began theater in 1986 with
plays like A Viewfrom the Bridge, Look Back in
Anger, Ghashiram Kotwa/ and Hayvadan. In
1991, he joined the NSD Repertoire
Company. His first entry in the world of
Cinema happened with much acclaimed
Bandit Queen. Shukla's biggest break came
when he co-wrote the 1998 cult classic Satya
and essayed the role of gangster Kallu Mama
in the film. He won the Star Screen Award for
Best Screen play.

66

He won the Zee Cine Award for Best
Screenplay for Calcutta Mail. He also acted in

the Golden Globe and Academy Award
winning Slurndog Millionaire,
character Constable Srinivas.

as the

Anj u m Katya l
Anjurn Katyal has been Editor, Seagull Theatre
Quarterly and Chief Editor, Seagull Books,
Calcutta, and Web Editor, Saregama-HMV.

She has been involved with the publication of
the New Indian Playwrights Series of post—
independence regional playwriting translated
into English, and a host of other theatre titles,

amongst other books on the arts. She has
translated Habib Tanvir's Charandas Chor and
Hirma ki Arnar Kahani (The Living Tale of
Hirrna) as well as Usha Ganguli's Rudali and
stories by Mahasweta Devi and Meera
Mukherjee. She is the author of Habib Tanvir:
Towards an Inclusive Theatre and a
forthcoming book on Badal Sircar.

