"National Theatre : Its Relevance“
Theatre Constitutes a Living element in a socio — cultural frame work of
the

society

As in ancient past, so in the

modern times, Theatre has become a

living index of the 3°C 0 - cultUral ethos of a nation. The theatre is rooted In the

reality of human 3 tuation, and in turn is governed by the natUre of socretv.
In a transitional soc‘etv like ours, the theatre is bound to face hardship, Novel
and Poetry develop but the theatre may be stuck up with our developing economy.

The situation is a difficult one but there is no cause for anxiety, If our cultural and
spiritual values nave stood the strain of years of foreign rule and cultural supp'
ression ( willingly or unknowingly ), we are pretty sure the culture wall revive
it self, or in a way it has

aireidy revived, and with it the Indian theatre wrll come

up after facing challenge of the time.
Science ooenei new hOl’lZZHS for human knowledge and made man aware, once
again, of the power and the the glory of unity under lying apparent divison and
fragmentation, The researches in DSVChology anthropologvand comparative relegi-

on have succeeded in making man aware of the unity of human experience and
common aims and asoirat‘on of human life. Today there are no regiOnal or national
standards of art. the barrier of time and soace has broken down, the art=st stands
with immense and unlimited possibilities before him and faces anb unive sal audience. The theatre needs to be seen in a wide national persoective and artistic goal

than more nationalistic chauvinismor regional pride for national awareness and
national integration in ind'a, there is hardly anvthing of greater significance apart
front law of the land. than the national theatre. the disinte grating tendenc es set
forth in society and individual life need to be out in check by a powerful cultural
awakening. A Paramhansa Ramkrishana is yet to be born for theatre to lift from its
present morass, and

make it a real integrating face in society.

The rele is aptly

suitde to theatre. the awareness is there, the there, the theatre is rising to the
occasion, we wait for the fu I filment.
Wheather one likes it or not, the theatre is increasingly occupying the place of religion for in human life the common man Gospel is not to

be found in essence of

the Geeta or the Bible, it is realised in the suffering of man. and inisublime morne—
ntsof a Dramtic experience.
As we think of the theatre, we are overwheimed with possibilites. If quality of
life and not life as such rule in life and society. In planning and thinking of theatre
f0r tomorrow, we plan for better human exnstence and higher mode of living and
being.

(Dr. Satya Murty )

