HE; P|a । ३
J.B. Priestley 1 8921- 1 984
John Boynton Priestley, English dramatist, novelist, and
essayist, was born in Bradford on september 13,1894,

has been chairman of the British Theatre Conference,

the son of a school- master. In World \Var I he enlisted in
the infantry, working his way up from the ranks to

and has served as director of the weekly New Statesman
and.,7V'ation.

international theatre conferences, in Paris and Prague,

become a commissioned ofIiccr,and was wounded in

action three times. After the war he attended
Cambridge University, where he took honors in English
literature, modern history, and political science. Since
the age of sixteen he had been writing steadily,
contributing articles to London and provincial
newspapers, and the money he earned helped put him
through the university. In 191 8 he published a volume of
verse entitled The Chapman (yr Rhymes and, in 1922, Brief
Diversions, both written while he was still at Cambridge.
In 1922 Priestley arrived in London and established
himself as a reviewer and critic. His ﬁrst real success
came in 1929 with the novel The CoodCompam'ons in all, he
has written more than twenty novels. Having established
himself as a novelist, he began a new career as a
dramatist, in 1931 when he collaborated with Edward

Knoblock in adapting The Good Companions, and in 1932
with the production of Dangerous Come): Since then some
thirty of his plays have been produced, and he has
managed his own company and directed two of
London's theatres. He is also a prolific writer of essays
and miscellaneous prose.
During World War II, Priestley became popular as a
radio broadcaster with his series "Postscripts." He has
represented his country as chairman of two

Priestly's ability to develop character is evident in
Laburnum Grove (1933), a conventional comedy drama
of lower-middle-class English suburbia. Eden End
(1934) attempts to reproduce the atmosphere of the
theatre at the turn of the century but is not effective.
Duet in Floodlight and Cornelius, both written and
produced in 1935, are pedestrian pieces, but the latter
holds some technical interest. Bees on the Boat Deck
(1936) explores capital and labor in a combination of
fantasy and comedy.
Other plays include Alusic at Night (1938), in which
Priestley tried to show the effects of music on people's
minds and emotions; The Long [Mirror (1940), which
depicts an extrasensory relation between a girl and a
man; and Goodnight Children (1 9८12), a satire on the BBC.
They Came to a City (1943), and Desert Highway (1944)
deal with the impact of World \Nar II; in the former
Priestley proclaimed concern for the formation of a
better world, and in the latter he depicted the reaction
of a group of British soldiers. his last produced play, A
Severed Head (1 963), written in collaboration with Iris
Murdoch, was an adaptation of her novel reputation
as a dramatist rests largely on the fact that he trod
where others had not ventured before, his clearly
drawn characters helping to lead the way.

