Ranjit Kapoor
Born in Sihor district of Madhya Prasdesh in 9 June
1948. Ranjeet Kapoor started his theatre career initially
with Parsi Theatre Company owned by his father which
travelled widely to various parts of the country like:Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Goa, Daman etc. This subsequently
resulted in his irregular school education. After switching
over to variours odd jobs he was ﬁnally attachd with
"Dainik Tarun Bharat" in Lucknow.

Between the year 1965 to 1971 he wrote number of
poems and stories which were published in Sarika and
other magazines of the period. In 1973 he joined
National School of Drama. He received Best Director
award for his diploma production 'Woyzec/c’ a German
play. By 1977 he joined N.S.D. Repertory Company as
an actor besides continuing his work in back stage:
Begum ha takia, Mulchya Mantri and KhabsoomtBahu are his
famous N.S.D. Rep. Productions. He resigned from
Repertory Company in 1979 and worked in various
cities of the country like- Delhi, Bhopal, Lucknow,
Rajastahan, Kolkata, Bangalore, Himachal, as a

freelance director. Some of his famous directed plays are:
Begum ka Yakia, [Wu/chm, Alantn', Eh Ruka Hua Faisla,

VVoyzee/c, Sher-Afghan, Bichchhu , Kaua Chala Hans Ki Chat,

Bury the Dead, Eh Ghora Chhe Sawar Eh Samarium Samz'tz' Ki
Utha/c Baithak, Pair 722a Ki Zameen, Ithahsoorat Bahu, Kara

Kara Swaha, Ek Mamooh Aadmi, janpath Kiss, Mera Dost
Bhootnath, Adarsh Hindu Hotel, Shortcut, Aﬁoah etc.

He has translated and adapted most of his plays. His
contribution in the ﬁlm is also remarkable. He did lyrics
and music for the ﬁlm Aadhar Shila and dialouges for ﬁlms
like: jane th' do Taro, Mohan joshz' Hazir Ho, Ek Ruka Hua
Fallyla, Ithamoshjfahhi Haan Kabhi Naa Bandit Queen, Shun,

Laja, Ifya Kehna, Hum to Mahohbat Karega, The legend of
Bhagat Singh, The Mere Saline, etc. He is also engaged in the
forthcoming ﬁlms like The Rising & 'Ijzeoon etc.
He has also directed number of TV Serials for
Doordarshan like Basanti, vaaz', Amir Khushro, Chekhov hi

Dhungjza, Mem Dost Raju, Shesh Abhz'nay, Bahut Bada Sawal
CtC.

He has been awarded by Sahitya Kala Parishad (Delhi
Govt.) and Shikhar Samman by M.P. Govt. for his
contribution in the ﬁeld of theatre.

