New Wave in Soviet Theatre
The following article is based on an APN interview with
Vasily Zak/rarov, Minister of Culture of the USSR.

The theatre plays a special role in moral and spiritual revival of society and roots out everything

that interferes with the reform, that is, norrow-mindedness and passiveness. The theatre should undergo
reform if it is to be a genuine ”councillor" of the people. The Ministry of Culture would like to see the
new theatre union as an active and equal partner. Thus they would be ”two arms of a single theatre
organism", as one theatre director aptly put it. We must jointly work out a programme of concrete
measures to reform theatre,
In 1987, the experiment will be carried out in 75 theatres all over the country.

It will

deal with

important aspects in the life of theatre companies which are to receive much greater freedom - greater
responsibility— in deciding creative, organisational and financial matters. The theatre council (an elected
body) will decide regarding repertoire and the shaping of the company; it also has greater financial
Independence including the right to decide the price of theatre tickets. But the experiment will not solve

all the problems immediately, Besides, it may bring
preparatory period, the experiment brought to light
ment of scenic art and call for immediate action_
education and the shortage of directors capable of

to light new difficulties and problems. Even in the
a number of problems which hindered the developThese problems include shortcomings in theatrical
becoming the leaders of theatre companies. Many

questions heve come up regarding the actor—"the main figure in the theatre".
There are many problems which are connected with artistic pursuits and the working conditions

of the actors.

Some of the reasons have a concrete material basis,

the same salary regardless of what they do.

must search for the best way of assessing the efforts of the actors.
criteria of payment that our colleagues in

For instance, actors are often paid

That is impermissible.

Together with the new union, we

We fully support the search for new

Estonia have launched.

They suggest that

the artistic,

organisational and human qualities of an actor should be considered when the amount of remuneration is
being decided.

The system of electing an actor once every five years which was introduced recently in more
than 400 theatres has not produced the desired results. The reason for it may be that the election does
not concern

actors who bear the title of Laureate or People's Artist of the USSR; or it may be the

influence of moral and psychological climate in the company. Not everyone has learnt to take advantage
of the greater democracy, to make full use of their rights and to take on responsibility. Tr‘ere are some
objective reasons as well.

In our country, we cannot dismiss an actor unless we find him work with

equal pay. Among those who are not re-elected the:e are bound to be talented actors who for one
reason or another, could not find their niche in a particular troupe. That is why the new union and the
Ministry plan to set up a theatre consultation centre which will help actors and directors not only in
finding jObS but will give them qualified assessment of their artistic abilities. These special measures are
justified because acting and direction are not mass professions.

