AN APPRAISAL
. Sh e k h a r S i n ha

“Honour and shame from no condition rise,
Act Well Fin 1

rt. there all the honour lies ”
+Pope
'

Life is a drama on a large scale, and drama is life in a small scale. Whatever
the scale — be it life or stage - he who plays his part well, truly lives it and justiﬁes his

existence and is certainly worthy of honour and applause. A true stage artist slowly developes a habit of viewing life as a stage. V

Being impressed by the devoted

spirit and selfless dedication of Sri Satish

Anand towards this art, I sought to join Kala Sangham in the early part of 1973 with
an idea to lend him a hand in pursuit of his goal in my own humble way:
Needless to

say that with inﬂux of time this has grown as the leading institution of Bihar, so far as
the drama and stage craft is concerned. It is he who infused in me the
necessary
strength to enable me to accept my life’s ﬁrst role of a disabled sold
ier on crutches in
his historical play “Andha Yug" and later that of ‘Yuy
utsu’ in the same play in its
next presentation during the ﬁrst drama festival in
1978. Fortunately I proved equal to
my assignments. Yet though the laurel was
mine, the credit undoubtedly vs as his.
With his blessings and affectionate pats I was
again able to do full justice to my role of
‘Shahabuddin’ in his famous play “Tughlak”.
In this play I played the role of one of
. king’s trusted counsel but due to trave
sty of circumstances though unwilling
lv he w as
compelled to Jom a heinous plot against
the king and ultimately lost his life
at the roval

hands

This was a comparatively longer and
a little more difficult role necessitating
presentation of varied moods and
expressions with professional a
bility. Thank God
9
this role of min
e was also widely appreciated.

In contrast to the histori
cal roles my
role in “Kisr Ek PhOOl Ka Na
am Lo” was that of an ultra
-modern y outh. In this play I
had to perform double roles of
Sunder and Niranjan. This
play was witnessed by Shri
Jagannath Kaushal, the th
en-Governor of Bihar, who
w as immensely impress
ed by our

५२

