performances with all praise.

The unique thing in this play was the introduction

of exemplary directorial touches like still scenes and ﬂash—back system of presentation.
A very di‘ﬁicult play indeed, presented with masterly ease and tprof'essional perfection,
won for him unprecedented appreciation.

During the last festival Shri B. V. Karant,

Director, National School .of Dran a, New Delhi, Mrs. Pratibha Agrawal of Calcutta
among many other distinguished visitors spoke very highly about our roles and our
services towards the development of this art.

Besides our dedicated Director Shri Anand I have also got inspiration and

guidance in no small measure from my senior renowned stage

artists of this institution

namely Shri Suman Kumar, Shri Basant Kumar, Shri Hari Sharan und many others.

I must admit that to work under Shri Anand in the company of the above mentioned
artists is a real pleasure, and a step forward in the service of this art.~

The latest offering of this institution “Juloos” was presented to the Bihar
audience at every nook & corner of Patna for over 28 times with equally encouraging

response everywhere.

This has gone a long way to establish this institution as the

outstanding pioneer of this art in Bihar.

It is i a happy augury to note that Kala

Sangam is proposing to add yet another feather to its store of achivements by organising a drama festival again which is supposed to continue for one week.

It is hoped

that notable personalities and institutions of the country will participate in this festival.
It will no doubt be a rare honour for. Bihar.

I will not be out of place to mention that my interest and aptitude for acting
has a family back-ground. My revered late grand father Shri Kameshwar Pdi, Advocate,
besides a leading lawyer, sportsman, palmist etc. was an ace stage artist of his time at

Bihar Shariﬁ and stage. lovers of Patna often I used to go to Bihar Shariﬁ’ to witness his

performance.

My father Shri V. Bhushan also has been an ardent lover of music and

drama and has been intimately connected with various cultural institutions. I am ,proud
in 4 this respect that I had always been receiving encouragement and blessings from
them.

May God grant me necessary strength so that I may be able to repay the debt

of gratitude to them. I Owe a lot to my respected Director Shri Satish Anand and to

my fellow brethren of the institution who I hope will continue to render me the love,

e
but
tri
con
to
able
be
may
I
that
so
,
well
as
re
futu
in
ce
dan
gui
ary
ess
nec
and
n
ctio
affe
my might towards, service of this art.

C] Cl [3

३"

