BANGLA THEATRE 0F PATNA
The people of Bengal are by nature. emotional and as such they respond to
ﬁner sentiments, through creative impulses in the ﬁeld of art and literature.

It is thus

‘ natural that. they brought with him this cultural heritage to Bihar and to Patna parti-

cularly. in - the process of their migration.

Possibly the ﬁrst play in Bengali-‘Palesheer Juddha' was staged here way back
in the early months of 51893 at the local Bengali ‘Aakhara premises in Langartoli.

This

was mainly “due— to the efforts of a musician who was at the time the Postmaster Of

Muradpur Post Oﬁice.

The success of this play inspired the theatrically aspiring

Bengalee speaking people to get together under the banner of the Resident Dramatic
Club, towards the tail end of-the nineteenth century. This organisation staged
various parts of Bihar.

plays in

Some prominent members were. Rai B‘ahadur Purnendu Narain

Singh, Mathur Nath Singh, Monmontho Nath Day, Hari Mitra, an acclaimed musician
an i dancer generally enacted the female roles.

The early years of the twentee-th cen-

tury brought Mr. Nat-en Bose to Patna as an employee in the Govt.
the next twentyﬁve years,

service and during

The Resident Dramatic Club staged numerous plays, viz.

:‘Shreekanter Will', ‘Kapalkundala', ‘Bishwamangal', ‘Shahjahan', ‘Rana Pratap’, ‘Vir

Raaja’, ‘MewarPatanv', ‘Padmini’, ‘Sita’ etc, under his direction. र The female, roles
were generally enacted by .Ganesh Bo :idhopadhyay and Amulya Mitra.

Rao’ was staged in i935 at Gulzarbagh.

The. play ‘Baji

The well-known actor ‘Mohit Ghoshal and the

acclaimed musician Narendra Nath Dutta shouldered the important roles.

The students of the Temple Medical School (now the Patna Medical College)

had started witlt-tlr’eir“~OWn‘ Medical School Dramatic Society at the beginning of this
'century.’ Under the inspiring guidance and direction of Captain Phani Bhushan Mukhopadhaya several Bengalee plays viz. Moghul Masnad, Shahjahan, Mewar Patan etc. were

staged.

In the year 1 92 l some Bengalee speaking Govt. employees staged ‘Mewar

Patan’ at Gardanibagh (Road No. l 1).

The same enthusiasts formed a Dramatic Club

in 1922 in the premises of some Govt. quarter.

Some important actors were Sharat

Chakravarty. Promotho Nath Chattopadhyay (the author’s grand father), Apurba

३ ६३

