grateful to Dr. Sharadendu Mohan Ghosal and Dr. Sa'chin Sen for their inﬁnite help in
the development of this cultural centre.

The ‘Prabashi’ Dramatic theatre came into being in 1963.

Their plays have

proved to be highly successful amongst the theatre-loving masses. The unit owes its
existence mainly to the inspirative eﬁ'orts of Nirmal Ghosh and Premanshu Kumar Sen
Gupta.

Amongst their many productions ‘Barangana’, ‘Michhil’, ‘Sutarang—O-gharana’

and ‘Sitaharan’ are worthy of being especially memorable.

These plays were ' directed

by Subash Sen, Dilip Sarkhel and Samir Gupta.

In 1966, the efforts of Ashis Ghoshal, Santosh Mukhopadhyay and Suprabhat

Mustaﬁ, resulted in the formation of ‘Chaturanga’.
June’.

Their ﬁrst production was ‘Bishe

The ‘Chaturanga' has earned special fame in the ﬁelds of experimental plays.

Some memorable ones are ‘Ghum Ne’, ’Bishe June’, ‘Jwala’ ‘Banmanush' ‘Gala Satha’,
‘Agni Conar'. Presently they are also maturing in the ﬁeld of Hindi Dramatics ‘Ballav-

pur Ki Rupkatha’, ‘Bakee Itihas’ are specially worth mentioning—all directed by
Ashish.

The plays in Bengali are directed by Ashish Ghoshal, Phalgu Ghatak, Prasha-

nto Chatterjee etc.

They have participated in several competition and have won for

themselves several prizes and sufﬁcient f'ame.

In 1967 a group of young men longing in the secretariat ﬁelds decided to
contribute their own culture into the world of drarnatics. Thus the Bidrohee Dramatic

Society was formed by the co-operative eﬁbrts‘i'Of Asheem Sen Gupta,
Probir Ghosh (nephew of Nabe‘ndu Ghose), 'A'shlok 'I‘alpatra,

Ashit Biswas,

Sajal Sen Gupta and

Asheem Ganguli. They were latter“. supported in their efforts by Goso Rai, Kali Ghosh
Preetish Chatterjee, Shivajee‘ Chatterjee,’ S‘amer' Chakrobary. Aloke, Quro Chakro-

. borty and other artists among their numerousproductions are Shishu‘Pare, Pridisha,
Sakarun, Kintu Natak Noi, 'Z‘M'aihesh, Gandharjee, Jauna, Achal 'I‘aka chalce, Itihas '
Kande, Vosu, Mrichil, Jadubongsho, Nare’éch Sangbad, Nati Binodini,, Alibaba Pan- ‘

chali, and Kabi. In their plays Ashit Chakroborty, Shibajee Chatterjee, Kali Ghose,

and Pritish Chatterjee hava shown maturity and brilliance.
In 1969 “The ﬁrst Alludia” full length Bengali Drama competition took place

as a result of the effort of Shilpi Samiti. They have since then organised this yearly

६(

