Excerpts from an interview with Mahesh Elkunchwar
About my writing there are two kinds of opinions : some people call me a ‘traditionalist’ playright,
and in using the word there is of course a bit of contempt they simply describe me as one of the
‘Gadkari school’, someone who writes tediously wordy plays. Others also call me aggressively mod-

ern, a sort of expressionist. There doesn’t seem any reason for anyone to push me either on one side
or on the other—these are aspects of any writer's struggle. From 1967 till almost 1980 l was struggling,
with my medium, my language, finding myself. I did all kinds of plays- I wrote absurd theatre, and
symbolic plays, realistic plays, and in each case‘ I tried to find a language that would suit the mode.
This is just an aspect of self-education of a sort, a search for something. And I think it very wrong to
brand a writer as something, belonging to a certain school. .
When a writer launches his, so to speak, investigative journey, he's somewhat like a little boy,
stumbling, overdoing things— a writer will overwrite, be excessively descriptive, somehow throttling
what he wants to convey in this exaggerated enthusiasm. With age and experience, I think, he realizes

क्षग्नत्तेक्यु ताद्यक्ली

"हैं

what he wants to avoid, where he went wrong- all this only if he is consistently self-critical, of course.
Kalelkar. and Kanetkar of course never do this, and we know what they have come to. Over the years
a certain degree of sophistication of course comes into one's writing, but at the same time, with
growing experience, the way one wants to convey this experience changes- one becomes more economical, which I atleast was not earlier.
It's better to leave things unsaid,and conveyed through suggestion- that gives an idea to the
viewer of what else there is to what is directly presented, the bottom of the iceberg. That's the
beauty
of theatre. i now realize, since Raktapushp especially,that the process of spelling everythin
g out,
underlining emotions with a red pencil, can actually deny the emotions their sharpness. You
need to .
just touch something across to convey it. And then, once you can write with this
abbreviation of
means, then you leave many quiet areas which have to be filled in by the actor. And
that then is true
theatre.

There is often false primacy given to the written word in a play— even actors like
Dr. Lagoo will
say that of course the playwright's version is the ‘true'. one. They don't therefor
e confront their role in

