any true sense, risking the breakdowns that might occur, the shifts that might take place as they bring
their own lives to bear in reliving the experience of playing the role. Because it is actually this that
makes the role come alive, even though it might lead to versions different from those envisaged by the
author.
What Grotowski says is true when he says that the Hamlet he will portray is the Hamlet he
receives- he can't portray Kenneth Tynan‘s version of Hamlet. It is imperative when playing Hamlet
that you confront the role, that you breakdown, find the Hamlet within you, say ‘I am Hamlet'. This our
actors don’t do- they're stuck with the wordy superficial. Purl did this successfully, । must admit, and
this was a lesson to me as to how to write.
I expect a lot from the actor. I don't go to the theatre to see a certain actor playing this particular
role- when I go I want to see the soul of a being bared before me. When I see an actor performing I
want to encounter this, this merging of souls, which is what communication in the theatre is all about.
This is true for all art- when | read Khanolkar's poetry I see his soul bared before me. When I see great
painting this happens all the time But when | see theatre here. I don't see the soul of the actor as he
performs the role. The bridging of two souls in their nakedness, this I don't see- indeed, what I do see
are tremendous, flailing efforts by actors to cover themselves up, hide their being, using the role they
play as a sort of shield.

टाग्नतेल्यु ताद्यल्सी

'हैं

| see individuals all round me, especially in our metropolitan cities who are utterly mistrustful of
any kind of communication because it lays them open and vulnerable. These people instead stifle their
vulnerability beneath a cloak of fierce independence, a cloak that completely annihilates any possibility of revealing their souls to another individual. In the rural areas the people are naked in another kind
of way, and so they don‘t face this kind of crisis. they are still able to handle this isolation better. And
so when you are in a situation where you can't be vulnerable to even one another human being. it is
ultimately reflected in the theatre. The actor and the audience should communicate, for the moment,
as though they were lovers. But this everyone refuses to do.

And so the only theatre we can expect is superficial, and not entertaining in any significant
way. It's a cover-up, a sort of substitute for all one's anxieties, rather than a form that addresses us in
any way.

