DELHI PUBLIC SCHOOL EAST OF KAILASH
NEW DELHI

Delhi Public School East of Kailash started
from humble beginnings in tents way back in
1974. Gradually it rose from strength to
strength. Today it is an institution where parents
'are proud to have their wards admitted.
We started this school in tents with picturesque
surroundings. But out lrmovative methods of
teaching and dedicated staff led it to high
academic standards. As a result there was a
great demand for admissions. So gradually we
built a small building to have classes from Prep
to Cl-V. The increase in the size did not deter
us from keeping pace with the times. As
demands increased we soon added a nursery
block.
At that time our school was the only feeder
school to DPS, R.K. Puram. But the excellence

classes during the Summer Vacations. Our
enthusiastics staff do not mind braving the
scorching heat to come for these classes.
These activities help in the all-round
development of the child. Besides the children
bring laurels for the school — be it in the field of

art, music, dance debate, quiz or PT.
of the children turned out from this institution

soon led to a greater demand for admission.
Thus a new branch had to be started at Vasant
Vihar and a separate lnfant School for our
toddlers at Vasant Vihar too.
We did not let it rest at that as demands for
admissions continued to come in. We added a
second storey to accommodate Class-VI
children.
But this increase in numbers did not deter us in

You will be glad know that our School provides
workshops to the children on dancing,
cartoons, sculpture. This is done with the help
of the Indian Express. They have also
inculcated in the children the habit of reading a
newspaper at a tender age.
This year we have added sports facilities. The
children enjoy coming early even through the
bitter Delhi winters to participate in a game of
Football, Basketball, Kabaddi or Kho Kho.

our efforts to provide quality education.
We built us a huge Library with 14000 volumes
of books in fiction, science, history and
encyclopaedias. Our Computer Lab, Science
Room and Art Room provide ample
opportunities to the children to tap their talent.

We are proud of this institution of ours and
hope to keep on marching ahead in our goals
to provide quality education through innovative
methods.
Mrs. Geeta Kochhar

Our school provides a wide range of extracurricular activities-right from drarnatics to
Yoga, Tai-Kwon-Do, Pottery, Electronics. These
activities keep the children involved in such a
way that there is always a demand for hobby

