DELHI PUBLIC SCHOOL EAST OF KAILASH
CAMPUS NEWS

Being a public school DPS aims at an all round
development of the child. Development just
doesn’t centre around academics, but believes
in bringing out the latent abilities and hidden
potentials in a child. The school strives to bring
out this facet in the development of all children
by organising, functions, assemblies and
competitions. This is further enhanced by the
support extended by philanthropic institutions
and commercial organisations in organising
shows, quizzes and camps.
Considering the adage “All work and no play
makes Jack a dull boy", we at East of Kailash
organise functions and activities spanning over
all the academic weeks through out the year.
The focus as well as the emphasise has been
on as much participation of children as
possible. Mass participation of children has
been our motto.
The variety of extra curricular activities have
spread over a number of value based subjects
such as handwriting Competitions, folk dance,
quizzes recitations, Show and Tell for our tiny
tots, Debates, Excursions, Picnics, Story and
Poetry writing, celebration of national and
international festivals, Discussions on current
topics, mono-acting dramas, science
exhibitions, Special assemblies and functions,
Music and dance competitions etc.
Our tarnin at DPS, East of Kailash is proud of
its children. They have brought laurels not only
for themselves but also for the school by
distinguishing themselves in the following
national and regional contsts. East of Kailash
won the award for Delhi State Folk Dance
Championship and a number of trophies in Art
Organised by NDMC Schools. A Running
Trophy and six gold medals were won by our
children at the contest. Further they won prizes
and gold medals at the Art Competition held at
AMITY School. At a Cultural Programme held
at the Naval Public School our young sparks
won the 2nd prize at the Dance Competition
and bagged the first two prizes in Art.

Of course we will be failing in our objectives if
we do not mention the number of children who
have won at the Shanker's Art Competition, as
usual there were quite a number of them.
Even in the Zonal matches and games our kids
like Gyanam Hazarika, Kiran Thadani and
Leher Thadani won the Gold medals for
Tackwon-Do, Kick quter ’92.

Again Arjun Sanyal brought DPS to the forefront by winning the Haiku, organised by JAL.
He was one of the seven students selected
from India for this Japanese poetry writing
Competitin. A handwriting competition was
organised by Ritu Wears in our school and four'
of our tiny tots namely Mandakini, Devika,
Surnita and Arnit Bhogal got the 1 st and 2nd
Prizes.
Even in the field of sports our lively young
sportsmen have distinguished themselves by
grabbing 19 gold medals out of 25. In the later
School Athletics held at DPS, R.K. Purarn our
kids won all the races except one.
Thus we are able to bring out these inherent
abilities of our children and inspire them to
meet greater challenge.

Zeenat Khader
Co -0 rd i nato r

