ABOUT MR. GARGI
Balwant Gargi, one of the leading playwrights of India, is a visiting artistdirector on campus. Born of an illiterate mother in a sandy north Indian
village, he was the first in his community to receive an MA in English Literature.
Writer of thirty one-act plays, ten maior dramas, dozens of stories and sketches,

his plays have been produced in India, Moscow, Poland, Tokyo, and Hawaii.
He studied the working of the Moscow Art Theatre and Brecht’s Berliner
Ensemble and lectured all over Europe on the Indian drama. Steeped in the
traditional and folk theatrical forms of India, Mr. Gargi is also alive to the
western forms. He is an Executive Member of the National Academy of Dance,

Drama, and Music of India, was delegate to two International theatre conferences, and was awarded the National Academy Award for his book
Theatre in India in I962.
Currently teaching Indian drama on campus, he will continue for another
academic year covering the Indian drama with its special techniques, stage
devices, and aesthetics. His special emphasis will be on the folk theatre which
entertains the Indian masses with its colorful masks and pageants.

DAN C E COMPOSITION BY
Narendra Sharma, brought here especially to do dance compositions
for THE LITTLE CLAY CART, is the director of the leading ballet company
Bharatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi. Mr. Sharma has infused the students
with an awareness of and interest in Indian dance. He started his
career with Uday Shankar’s Culture Center in I939 and very early made
a mark by his original compositions. He has directed over a dozen
successful dance dramas and over thirty children’s ballets.
choreographer,

his

most famous

production,

”Ramlila,”

A brilliant
the

colorful

dance drama on the Hindu epic Ramayana, achieved an all-India reputation for him in 1957. This ballet has become an annual feature of
New Delhi, and over a million people have seen it.

The play will be presented in continuous action with
one intermission of ten minutes.

The production of this play has been arranged with New Directions of New
York, representing the author. The translation appears in Great Sanskrit Plays

In Modern Translation by P. Lal, under the title The Toy Cart, published by
New Direction, New York.

