only emerge out of the various
future. Such a theatre, we thought would
ituted the strongest and the
folklore of that region, of which the ballads const
prOplc, as lived by them for
Beeing the unwritten records of the life of the
strong potential for any the
lap of the Himalayas, they seemed to offer a very

segments of the
ricehest source.
centuries in the
atrical venture.

by adapting the folk ballads of
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase
Rajula—Malushahi was the first attempt of its
Kumaon& Garhwal to contemporary stage.
frrniliar with the background culture and folk
kinds. Shri Brijendra Lal Shah, who is widely
which, however. covered only half of the
traditions of that region, prepared the first script
produced in an operatic form. The first
ballad. The script was in Kumaoni, and was

Kamani to packed houses.
performance of this production was given in 1980 at
present the full ballad.
Encouraged by tremendous reSponse we received, we decided to
g point in the life of the
It was produced & presented in 1981. This production was a turnin
for first time a production of
Parvatiya Kala Kendra. It was remarkable in the sense that

heritage of the peOple
this dimension Was mounted capturing the essence of the cultural
stage like Vinod
of Uttarkhand. It was also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi

ts to theatre
Nagpal and V.M. Badola performed in the production alongwith many fresh entran
d it. The script, as of
and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B.M. Shah directe
of Mohan Upreti. Since this
earlier, was that of Shri Briendra Lal and musical score was that
ballad of the region
event the Kendra did not look back. Every year it has taken up a new
that have been
and given it a dramatic form. The wide spectrum of the folklores of the region
ties.
covered are given below in the resume of activi
A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES

1968

Founded as Registered Society.
.
Uttarkhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi

1969
1969

Repeat performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.
Uttarkhand Folk Songs and Dances, AIFACS Hall. Inaugurated by Late Smt

Gandhi.
l 969-197]

'

Repeat Performances at Rashtratpati Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, Gandhi Darshan
USSR Culture Centre, IMA Auditoriun, INT Hall, and Doordarsan.

I971

l972-76

I.C.C R Sponsored performances in Sikkim.

Repeat Performances for Delhi~ based Uttarkhand people at Ramakrishnapuram
Lodhi Colony, Talkatora Stadium, Aiwanc-Galib, Red Fort (Kurmoni Battalion
III-Regiment), Tin Murti Bhavtan. Mavlankar Hall, TV recording for New Year
Programme.

Repeat Performances for Uttarkhand people based in bombay, Jaipur, Kotdwar
Rishikesh and Moradabad.
’

