_ Indersabha

८

—A * Fascinating Entertainer
बुध्द By NEMICHANDRA JAIN
८ ८ तो तो ८ ८…८ A

A A A AAA

Atnanat's lndersobha written and first staged in Lucknow in the early fifties of the 19th
century, is an instance of a typical development of the traditional perf'oming arts in north
India, particularly the Hindi-speaking region. Like many other cultural expression here,the
many-layered source, including
story of Indersabha also has a very mixed and
in legends, folk tales as
found
versions
various
its
and
Kalidasa
of
Vikramorvashiyam
well as the . Urdu narrative poems called Masnavis ३ written in the last century. Similarly,

its dramatic form is a curious amalgam of elements from the theatrical, musical and narrative
, genres, like of the region Rasleela, Rasak, Rahas, Bhagat, Swang, Kathak, Alha, Dastangoyee

३'

(Storytelling) etc.
lndersabha, is designed totally as a play for singing and dancing, without almost any

prose dialogue, and has an in—built provision for a preponderance of dance which make it
substantially dif'f'erent from a Swang or Nautanki play. As a result, the musical forms like
'I‘humri, Mori, Dadra, Ghazal and others have been incorporated in the text in a manner
so,
more suitable for a Kathak dance recital than for a dramatic performance. Even
Indersabha is basically a musical play like many other traditional performing texts all
over the country. But its specific structure follows a performing pattern developed by that

unique royal patron of arts. Nawah Wajid Ali Shah, the ruler of Awadh, who not only wrote
d
scripts, created music and dance scores for numerous Rahas & other performances, maintaine
elaborate establishment for the purpose called Parikhana, but also participated in them
himself along with his queens, concubines and hunderds of dancing girls, permanently
employed for the purpose.

lndersabha
With such emphasis on colourful dance and music, it is not surprising that
ohter parts
in
later
became very popular in Lucknow when it was written and performed and
theatrical
of northern India. Naturally, it was also often in the repertoire of famous Parsi
ng.
compainesf oral. most a century. In spite of its flimsy romantic narrative, it is a fascinati

