OOW

9'5क्या 999 t!99§é¢ हैं ‘99 ﬂ??? 139-}9999QéééQQOWQMWQW

INDER sABHA ,
(Producer’s l‘lote)
M 0 H A N U P R ETI

”.“ ममव्य-तो-रम १‘ "'3

WW“W§Qही90 3३6m9999?©9é6§ m9?696

Parvatiya Kala Kendra feels great pleasure in presenting the nearly hundered fifty years
old musical play 'INDER SABHA’ written by one Shri Krishna Bihari Shukla ‘Amanat' of
Lucknow. It was“ first presented by the Nawab of Avad’hé, Wajid Ali Shah in his ‘Parikhana’

situated in his, famous Lucknow Baradari. It may be relevant to ask. as to why the Parvatiya
Kala Kendra, which has so far been specialising only in presenting theatrical adaptations of
: folk ballads of Kumaon and Garhwel, has all of a. sudden taken upon itself the onerous

_; reSponsizbility of persenting this classical musical

play written in

Urdu, Hindi and other

non-pahari sub~languages spoken in the Hindi Speaking belt of North India. I have only two
, answers to offer-firstly this play reflects in ample

measure the composite character of our

» great artistic and cultural traditions, and secondly its presentation style, particularly the
. musical mode of dialogues is very akin to the features of the theatrical traditions prevalent in
Uttarakhand, for instance the Ramieela. I may also add2 here that our artists belonging to this
generation have greatly been benefited by the experience of encountering the creative blend of

- the, classical and non-classical

musical. traditions, which constantly occur in the play.

/ ‘ Considered from this pint of view, I would prefer to treat it as a Workshop production.
MUSIC OF I N DER SABHA- I feel this play highlights the importance
theatrical productions, and deserves special mention.

of music of

One really is strvck by the imagination

of the playwright who chose to incorporate and use various musical forms, both classical and
non-classical, as theatrical idoimto convey the story, which by itself is otherwise very thin,
and one dirntnsional There are no prose dialogues, except for recitational passages occuring at
and there. There is no scope for intense dramatic charcterlsation. The story is very simple. In
fact it is the continuation of the ancient PurUrava-Urvashi myth. Sabza Pari (Urvashi) falls

