About t h e Novelist
Born in 1914, Mr. Krishan Chander was educated at Forma
Chm Iran College, where he completed his master's degree in English.
km a number of years he wrote for the Ambala Tribune, and the
weekly Northern Review, and then became attached to All India

Radio. But, dissatisfied with the government service, he moved to
Bombay where he continued to write for the movies.

the

Mr. Chander spent the greater part of his life in Kashmir, where
buziuty of nature left a permanent mark on his aesthetic

senszbility. A prolific writer, lVlr. Chander produced well over eighty volumes, which include
more than thirty collections of short stories and more than twenty novels. The major works
of Mr. Chander are: Nazzare, Purane Khuda, Ek Violin Samandar ke Kinare, Ham vahshi
hain, Ek girja ek khandaq, Ajanta se aage, Tootan ki kaliyan"Kitab ka kafan, Ek gaddhe ki
sarguzasht, Meri yadon ke chinar, Dadar pal ke daeche, Dil kisi ka dost nahin etc. "' Mr.
Chander has beer‘ widely translated into many Indian and foreign languages.

lVlr. Kishan Chander left this universe in 1 977 leaving his creativity behind.

About T h e Play
The Donkey was something unusual. He was very Important and that is the reason
Krishan Chander continuously wrote about him.He wrote three novels one after another
's
Seth
anior
Billi
saw
ji,‘
dit
'Pan
met
and
i
Delh
to
e
cam
he
,
First
ey.
donk
to
d
ecte
subj

beautiful but finiky daughter,and lost his heart to her. After all it is just a poor heart!
Anyways . . मैं . . . . . . . . . . He faced lots of other incidents and then he came back.
The background of this 'coming back'is Bombay,where this donkey shared hands in
the profession of smuggling, then also came first in ‘Horse race'. Became the guru of
gamblers and opened a film production house. Became producer and loved the most famous
and beautiful heroine of Bombay- The Maya Nagri.

Presented play is absolutely like an interesting tale.Somewhere shower of farce and
somewhere full of pain . . . . . . . ..

A Man
A Donkey

A Woman

Man who is a lord

Woman who is a mother,
& Donkey
Donkey who is the labour and innocence of life.

