yinl

"-

“mm-Wm

. a}

A scene from! Hindi play ‘Shooting’ staged on the ﬁnal day of
week-long Theatre Festival at Reasi.

we},
i‘ Kl

८; l‘heatre Festival concludes with

Jatinder Sharma’s play ‘Shooting’
Excelsior Correspondent
REASI, Nov 2: On the ﬁnal
day of weak long Theatre Festival
organized by Sangam Theatre
Group and supported by Union
Ministry of Culture here at DIET
Auditorium, Hindi adaptation of
Jatinder Sharma’s original Dogri
play “Shooting” was staged by
Rangyatri Jammu.
Chudhary
Zulﬂ(ar
Ali,
Minister for Consumer Affairs and
Public Distribution Department,
was the chief guest while
Additional Deputy Commissioner,

during the shooting of ﬁlm.
Directed by Mohit Mehra, the
play “Shooting” revolves around
the protagonist heroine ‘Mala’,
who is beautiful but self centered
and cold hearted individual. All
the male characters in the play are
attracted to her but worldly-wise
Mala rebuffs them all one by one.
She has eye on the big ﬁsh.
Production Manager, Shanna Ji,
is the ﬁrst man to be besotted by
her charms, the other male char-

acters follow suit. Many interesting and amusing incidents take
place during the course of the
Reasi, Shiv Kumar Gupta, was the play.
guest of honour.
The artists who performed in ‘
Final day’s presentation was the play wege Sandeep Verma,
marked by a competent perform- Ankit Shanna, Aayaan Ali, ,Vivek
ance by the team of young actors Sangotra, Rohit Sangotra, Mohit
who successfully kept up the racy Mehra, Azem Wani, Love Anand,
pace of the unfolding events with Mohit Singh Chib and Rabiyah
perfect sense oftiming in terms of Hayat Ansari.
delivery of dialogs, body moveMeanwhile, SSP Reasi, Sujit
ments and gestures.
Kumar, ADDC Reasi, Bhawani
The play is based on play- Singh Rakhwal, Additional DC
wright’s experiences during the Reasi, Shiv Kumar Gupta,
making of ﬁrst Dogri ﬁlm “Gallan Direcror CAPD and many other
Hoyiaan Bitiaan” in which dignitaries were awarded by the
Jatinder Sharma acted as the chief guest. Directors of all the अंनु
“Hero”. The play is a comic take participating groups were also
on what goes behind the scene felicitated on the occasion.
क्या

