तारा

तारा नाम का अर्थ है वह, जो विषम परिस्थितियों में सहायकास्क है, जो ''तारर्त४'
है l , तारा के व्यक्तित्व की विशेषता थी उसकी प्रत्युत्मन्नमति उसका विवेक, जीवन में
मयांदा का स्थान तथा उसकी सामाजिक रूप से कार्य में उपयोग करना l तारा में वायुतत्व
की प्रबलता थी ।
वालीबध के पश्नचात् तारा वनी थी राजमाता, चलाती थीं राज्यकारभार देती थी
उत्तम मंत्रणा सुग्रीव को । सीता की खोज में निकलने का वचन याद कराने हेतु लक्ष्मण, जव कोप से उलाहना देने अनन्मुर में चले जाये तब तारा ने भयभीत सुग्रीव के आगे
होकर लक्ष्मण को मयांदा तथा विवेक की शिक्षा दी । श्रीराम को भी सीता-वियोग के
शोक से उबरने का बोध दिया I ऐसी तारा, हमें विषम से विषम स्थिति में भी विवेक
व धैर्य से कार्य करने की प्रेरणा देती है ।

TAARA
Taara means she who saves, rescues, helps, succours. The special qualities of Taara
are her statesmanship, and her ability to change misfortune to her advantage with her
wisdom and acute sense of propriety. She is made from the substance of Wind.
During his search for his abducted wife Sita, Sri Rama killed Taara's husband, the

arrogant King Vaali. After the battle, Rama appointed Vaali's brother Sugriva to the
throne. Taara accepted her personal loss and became the Queen Regent, helping Sugriva
to run the administration and gave wise counsel. Together they promised Rama to help
in the search for Sita. One day, as Taara sat in the inner chamber of the palace with
Sugriva, Rama's brother Lakshmana entered angry and furious at the imagined delay in
going in search of Sita. While Sugriva was taken aback and at a loss for words, Taara
gently pointed out Lakshmana's breach of propriety. She also reminded him, who had
voluntarily left his own wife behind to help Rama, the duties of a householder, of a

husband and wife. Taara then went to meet Sri Rama, to remind Rama not to let his
personal grief submerge his divine purpose.
That she responded to the two divinely appointed men Rama and Lakshmana on
equal terms and without affectation, underlines her role in the majestic events that
follOwed .

