The Panchakanyaas
Myth is not fantasy. Nor is it fiction. The difference among the three kinds of creative work
can be comprehended if understanding of what is reality is clear. Reality is defined as 'the
experience of the five senses'. Dream then is reality, since all the five sense organs are fully
operative while one is dreaming. There are thus two kinds of reality : the awakened reality and
the dreaming reality. The latter kind of reality is called 'surreality' by the French thinkers. While
fantasy, like a balloon, leaves the reality of the awakened state and drifts towards that of the
dreaming, fiction invariably remains anchored to the former. ३ The rationale of the two kinds of

reality is totally different. The perspective of the reality of awakened state is objective, but that
of the dreaming state is subjective. Myths have their own reality. The mythical reality is
simultaneously objective and subjective. Therefore, the perspective of mythical reality is
Omnijective . The rationale of mythical reality is again different from the other two kinds of reality.
The fictionist looks at Life from outside, but a myth-maker, from inside. That is why myths are
usually much larger than life. The rationale of myth and history is also quite different. While

history tells of things past, myths tell simultaneously of past, present and future. Therefore,
Claude Levi Strauss, the eminent social anthropologist, advised that one should not analyse what
men thought is their myths but how myths think in men.
Right from the day consciousness dawned upon man he became aware that his life is
surrounded by entities having form and also those which are formless. He thought he can
understand the entities having form, because they are accessible to his senses. He desperately
wanted to understand the countless formless who are beyond his five senses. God has been kind
to give man the myth making faculty ! Using this faculty he tried to see the formless. One requires
a supersensory sight to see the formless in any form. This is developed in a Rislzi, the supervisionary through the practice of Yoga and through meditation. The representational figures of

the formless in shape of forms range from sztra—s to pratimaa-s. They are essentially formal
symbols. Pratimaa, literally meaning 'counter-measuring', may be in material form or in verbal
form. All characetrs of our epics and p11 man-s are pm timaa-s in verbal form some of whom are also
givenmaterial form in the shape of sculpted or painted figures. Some have fixed iconography,
others are left to the creative imagination of a sculptor or a painter.
Pachakmiyaa-s are basically pratimaa—s without fixed iconography. They represent the
autonomy of a woman in a social set up. Woman is the pivot of a society, since she, with the ‘
assistance of man, maintains the continuity of human being on this earth. As an agent of
procreative Nature she Chases to play many roles, of which three are more relevant to the topic
under discussion, and they are : deuce, satcc, and kanyan. If these three concepts are not rightly
understood the symbolic depth of the myth of Panchakanyaa will remain unfathomed.

Before each of the three concepts is elaborated it is necessary to understand the concept
of Vivtmha (marriage) which literally means 'to carry in a particular way'. When a man and a
woman are married one carries the other through the passage of life. It need not always be that
the man is to carry the woman. It may be vice-versa, depending upon the concept.
The partner

who will carry has to be dynamic and stronger.

14

