Devee generally means a goddess. The word is formed with the verbal root 'div’ which
means ' to shine ' or 'be bright' . The rfore, devee means, 'feminine effulgence', whereas dcvataa means
'masculine effulgence' and one is the counterpart of the other. The relationship between a devntan
and the corresponding devcc, such as, vislmu and vaislmavcc (not Lakshmee or Saraswatee)

transcends marriage (vivnalza). The concept of slziva and slzalcti, especially according to the slum/(ta
order of Tantrisrn, will clarify the concept. The relationship between the two transcends marriage
since it is like the relationship of sugar with sweetness; one is meaningless without the other. But
it is shakti who carries Shiva, not vice-versa. According to the slzaakta theology, without shakti, Shiva
is a sham (dead body). The concept of the relationship between Shiva and pam'vatee is, however
different, because she is the incarnated form of shakti. Paarvatee is married to Shiva, she is not the

counterpart. She is therefore more a Satce than a devee.
The word satee is derived from the verbal root 'sat' which has several meanings. Of which
'belonging to', 'abiding in' are relevant here. A satee is married to a man who possesses her and
she belongs to her. The man has such a powerful personality that she agrees to be carried by him
and their vivaaha remains socially flawless throughout. Satce, therfore, has come to mean 'a

woman who has sexual relationship only with one man to whom she is married'.
szyaa generally means 'a daughter' or 'a virgin'. The verbal root is 'Kan' which means

'young', ‘ to shine', 'to desire'. Thus szyaa, from the etymological perspective, connotes ' a bright
youthful girl desirous of being married to a man who can carry her through the passage of life'.
The panchakanyaa—s namely, Ahalyaa, Draupadi, Kunti, Taaraa and Mandodaree, all married, but
their husbands could not carry them as they deserved to be, but each of them was so bright and

so dynamic that the men who married them were no match. Therefore, their vivanha was not really
consummated. Each of the five kmzyaa-s was made with such shinning material that the man to
whom she was married, although was either physically or intellectually a giant, could not
outshine to cast a shadow on her. Therefore, they remained ever unpossessed.
The myth of Panchakanyan very significantly suggests that a woman is not a sex object. Her
socialdignity is not determined by her sex life. If any one thinks that the most important aspect
of a woman's life is sex, then one falls from the height of a human being to the level of an animal.
Therefore, the sloka relating to the Panclmkanyaas days :
पब्बकन्या स्मरेग्नित्यं महापातकनाशनं । ।

If one meditates everyday on the myth of Panclmkanyaa, one will obviate the great fall.
Paataka generally means 'sin', but its verbal root is 'pat' (पत्) which literally means 'to fall'.
Therefore, malmapaatuka (महापातक) means 'great fall'.

Let us now consider each of the five Kant/aa—s and try to figure out the symbolic depth.

AHALYAA
According to the Ramayana written by Valmiki, Ahalyaa was created from the mind of
Brahmaa, who named her so because her beauty had no blemish at all. The verbal root is 'hal'
which literally means 'to make furrow with a plough'. Thus Ahalyaa literally means 'the girl who
can not be tilled'. Brahamaa knew perhaps from the beginning that his daughter born from his

mind will remain ever like a virgin soil, untilled and unploughed to highlight the shortcomings
of an intillectual like Gautama and that of a god like Indra, and the autonomy of a woman, for

15

