whom men and sex are incidental, not crucial.
When Ahalyaa was created, Indra the king of gods, infatuated with her beauty, wanted to

have her as his wife. Since infatuation is not love, Brahmaa decided to give Ahalyaa to Gautama
Muni, a great intellectual, as his wife. So great was the infatuation of Indra that he used to come
frequently to see Ahalyaa. In the cottage of Gautama she lived much like Madame Bovary. One

day when Gautama was away from the cottage, Indra came in the guise of Gautama and
passionately invited Ahalyaa to bed with him. Ahalyaa could guess that such fiery Passionate
words can not come from the lips of Gautama Muni, and he is surely Indra. But so desperate she was for passionate wooing that she allowed herself to be seduced, because at the end of the love—
making she tells the disguised Indra (as written by Valmiki) :

कृतार्थास्मि सूरश्रेष्ठ गच्छ शीघ्रमित: भी ।

आत्मानां मां च देवेश सकी रक्ष मानद । I2 o I ।
Adi Parva. 47h Chapter.

Oh, king of the gods, you have made my life meaningful, Go from here as soon as possible to save
yourself as well as me.
But before Indra could slip away Gautama came back. When he saw Indra in his guise and
the embarrassment of Ahalyaa, he could guess everything. Like a common man he was so angry
that, at the cost of all the fruits of his tapasyan he cursed Indra to bear on his body a thousand vulva
and Ahalyaa to remain unseen (दुनिरीक्षा) to both man and gods till Rama comes to redeem her.
Ahalyaa calmly accepted the curse and immersed hereself in tnpnsya. Years after when Rama
came with Viswamitra to the hermitage she was looking like an incarnated flame which is covered
with smoke. In the poetic words of Valimiki :

धुआनाभिपरीर्तागी तीपामरिनशिखामिव - t ।
. In this simile the mythmaker poet Valmiki hints that Ahalyaa was like the flame of a lamp.
Both Indra and Gautama got severe burns by touching it inappropriately. Who can fill the virgin
existence of a flame which is born to fight the encircling social gloom.
D RAUPAD I

Like Ahalyaa, Draupadi also was not conceived inside the womb of a mother. She was
incarnated out of the flames of the sacrificial fire. These are the devices with which the myth maker
indicates that mythical reality has a totally different rationale and should not be analysed with
the rational instruments of the reality of the awakened state. She who is not born from the womb
of a mother is not really a human being, but a symbol in the form of a woman.
Draupadi is the most fascinating embodiment of very complex yet subtle symbolism. She
symbolizes at once a total woman, the feminine counterpart of divinity, the effective agent of the
eternal divine order, the litmus paper that tests the legitimacy of d/zm'ma (religion) and nccti
(morality) and feminine laavnnyn (लावण्य) par excellence.

Not for the custom of polyandry then prevalent when the epic was written, she marries
five men, but she is the symbol of a total woman she marries five men of five different attributes
so that her conjugal requirement is fulfilled. The play Ad/ze—nd/zurc of Mohan Rakesh is based
somewhat on this aspect of the aspiration of a woman. Tobe perfectly matched Draupadi
required an intellectual like Yudhisthira, a man of physical prowess like Bhima, a dauntless he [‘0

16

