like Arjuna, a handsome man like Nakula, and a childlike innocence to kindle her motherly feeling
like Sahadeva. The five were possessed by Draupadi, but like fools they thought that they
possessed her. So far a woman is concerned, intellectuals are greatest fools. Valmiki suggested
if by creating the character of Gautama, and Vyasa did that by depicting Yudhisthira. He is such
a fool that he thought Draupadi was a possession which can be staked in gambling.

Draupadi's another name is Krishnan. The myth maker unmistakably thus indicates that
Draupadi is the feminine conterparr of Krishna, the embodied divinity. She is not the consort but
the friend of the divinity. They both incited Pandavas to fight. A ﬂame burns to fight with the
darkness. Fighting and Killing are the divine order. I To living being can thrive without killing

and cosuming another. Even vegetables and trees have life. Therefore, a vegetarian also kills the
vegetables to consume them so that he may live. Therefore, divine order and human order have
differing rationale. They should not be confused. One should not forget that in Indian myth the

god .of death is dharmamaj, the king of all religions. And it is dharma which in form of clothes
surrounded Draupadi when the Kauravas wanted to disrobe her.
Kunti, her mother—in-law and another Kanyaa, knew that it is Draupadi who can lead
Pandavas in the right direction. Therefore, she tells Krishna to persuade the Pandavas, especially

Arjuna to move as per the adivce of Draupadi :

"गत्वा ब्रूहि महाबाहो सत्शिस्वभूर्ता वरम् ।
अर्जुन पाण्डव वीरं द्रोपद्या: पदवी चर"
Kunti tells Krishna that when he goes to the forest to meet the Pandavas, who are expert
is using all kinds of arms and ammunitions, he should tell them and especially Arjuna to follow
Draupadi's advice.
KUNTI
Shoorasena is the father of Vasudev and Krishna is the son of Vasudev. Shoorasena had
also a daughter named Prithaa. Shoorasen's first cousin was Kuntibhoj who was issueless. The
parents of Prithaa gave her to Kuntibhoja as his adopted daughter. After the adoption Prithaa

became known as Kunti. She was the paternal aunt of Krishna. Kunti is the epithetical name, but
her given name is Prithaa which unmistakably indicates that she symbolizes the earth spirit since
the earth is called Prithvee. Both Prithaa and I’rithvee mean "expansive."
Vyasadev, the myth-maker, is externely imaginative to suggest fertilization of the earth by
the Sun, the Death, the Wind, and the Rain. Many eyebrows may be raised at the suggestion that

Death fertilizes the Earth. But if one thinks deeply, one will surely come to the conclusion that
death is a blessing. In the Mahabharata, Ashwatthama is cursed with immortality. The poetic

sensitivity of Rabindranth Tagore was fully awake when he said "मरन रे तुंहैं मम श्यस्म समान' ’ which
means "oh, Death, you are like my Shyaarna (Krishna)".
Earth can be regarded as the daughter of Sun. It is, however, the sunlight that fertilizes

the Earth primarily. This is revolting according to the social values. Therefore in the myth, Prithaa
disowns the fruit of Sun's love.

' The traditional Indian thinking regards Death as a force of transformation, not annihilation.

Life is essentially a dynamism of transformation. Therefore, the Geeta says :

17

