दैहिंनोडस्मिन् यथा देहे कौमारं यौवनं जरा ।
तथा देज्ञान्तराशधिजिरस्तत्र न मुह्यति I I
It means "As adolescence, youth and old age to an embodied being are transformation, so also
is acquisition of another body (after death). This being so, an intelligent person does not get

deluded . "
The living beings breathe. Therefore, wind is considered as the force of Life in traditional
Indian thinking . The productivity of the earth is aroused by rain. Thus three elemental forces
enable earth to create and sustain life. They are : Transformation, Wind and Rain. The pratimaas of them are respectively Yama, Vaayu and Indra, the three gods who come to impregnate Kun ti,
the incarnation of the earth spirit.
TAARAA
The word "Taaraa" is derived from the verbal root 'tri' 'which means 'to cross over' or 'to

save'. Therefore, mythical Taaraa is a woman belonging to the tribal community named Vammm.
She is wisdom incarnate. If she is not listened to, ruination is invited. This is what happens to
her first husband Vaali. When the defectorSugriva comes back and challanges Vaali to a duel,
Taaraa tries to reason him out of the idea of fighting with Sugriva by saying that unless Sugriva
has secured a powerful ally he will not return so soon after his defeat to challange Vaali again
to a duel. She suspects that the ally may be Rama. Vaali does not listen to her and as a result
he dies. But Sugriva is more clever. He sends her to pacify the irate Lakshmana and she
accomplishes it admirably. Taaraa is thus the pratimaa of feminine wisdom and statesman-ship
that deserves to be listened to by egotistic men who think that women cannot think intelligently.
MAND O DAREE

Mandodaree is the daughter of Hemaa, an apsaraa and Maya, the titan who is a great

architect. Like Taaraa she is also an incarnation of wisdom. Like Vaali, the vain Raavana her
husband does not listen to her advice and meets his death causing destruction of all his

supporters. Mandodaree, according to Valmiki was more beautiful and more generous than
Seetaa. Yet Raavana kidnaps Seetaa and tries to woo her. Men think that it is the physical potency
that can possess a woman sexually and mentally. Nothing could be more erroneous. To possess
a woman so that the vivna/m is complete, the man has to reciprocate the devotedness, even

if it is a patriarchal society. Neither Vaali nor Raavana could understand this. Therefore they
could not possess their wives as Raama possessed Seetaa. When unpossessed, a woman remains
Kanyaa even though formally married.

The myth of szchakmzyaa thus throws light on the importance and role of women in

the society. In a partiarchal social set up a woman is regarded as a possession and a sex object.
The myth asserts that it is an extremely erroneous perspective which, if not duly corrected may
lead to decay and ruination of social fabric.

Iiw a 71 Pa 11 i

18

