Freedom of Being

Sonal dances youth into the veins of time, a witness to the flame in the innermost being
of woman, that condenses into the promise of life. In her raptured movements she seeks the
splendour and warmth, the experience and visualisation of a seed—image. In the self-assured

e\pression of an outstanding dancer like her, the image gains verticality of a dreaming flame,
or in the words of ()ctoyio ’az : "light drops its Clothes." She creates an experience of feminine
enlightenment : unfettered, sinuous, billowing, bold, outspoken and independent. Sonal enriches
the transtormative dimensions of a dynamic model in the luminosity of a golden dawn. She
seeks to write awareness and wisdom in the volume of skylike emptiness.

As poetry arrives in search of woman, she wheels with the starry void, palpitating in
mystery to the overpowering night of the universe. Herself invisible poetry, with her honey
she nourishes creation, to create the vanishing and the enduring in the permanence of change.
In response to the rhythms of time, she herself is perennial change which is the indivisible
link in the eternal of life. She weaves facts into values,life into love, but cannot remain strung
to a moment, or to one. She unwinds time in the rapture of flow and widens life out into
a vast forgetting, close to fire without kissing its flame. To her the solitude of being fettered
to one (ekavrata) is pain, pain the bread of man. She seeks the brilliance of the music of the
many. Beyond the motionless stone, to know the wind, to live in the body created, she grows

and comes to life : "follow me to the spring and find its secret."
In the animal as well as human kingdoms the feminine is the future of being, the reverie,
the animus, the well—spring of living water, the intimacy of an affectionate breast and a sweet

.home. A bird's tool for making a nest is its own body, that is, its breast, with which it presses
and tightens its materials until they have become absolutely pliant, well—blended. The nest is
a bird's very person; it is its form and its most physically intimate effort, nay its suffering.
The result is obtained by constant repeated pressure of the breast. There is not one blade of
grass that, in order to make it curve and hold the curve, has not been pressed on countless

times by the bird's breast, its very heart.

/\ house, a home is the gift of woman to human civilisation : or in Sanskrit gri/zim' grilzam.
As life begins in the ovum, for nine calender months, she needs a shelter to bring forth life,
away from the fury of elements, the bestial hostility of the storm, the scorching heat, the freezing
snow, the anger of heaven itself. See, the mother, the maker of life, becomes the architect of
shelter and protection, and builds the house. The word mother, Sanskrit nmtr, Latin mater, and

other cognate words in all the lndo-lSuropean languages, are from the root nut 'to make, produce,
fashion, form, build'. She makes, produces, gives birth, nurtures. As the creatrix of life, she

as well creates a home for life. Come what may the house helps us to say: I will be an inhabitant
of the world, in spite of the world . lnhabited space transcends geometrical space. With the house,
civilisation begins.

19

