In the heightened consciousness of Tantras, the feminine is insight (praina), wisdom
(vidya), brilliance (devi), heroine (shuri), and the esoteric (Mudra). She alters environment to

bring perfection to the subtle potentialities of human beings. She is the. illusion-destroying power,
the insight of pondering and cultivation. In the Tantras women are proud and condescending
towards men. Men are portrayed as supplicants and lovers. Proper homage to woman is a
prerequisite for man's enlightenment. Women are perfection of wisdom (prajnaparamita)
embodied in the phenomenal realm. The Canda-maharosana—tantra says
One should honour women.
Women are heaven, women are truth,
Women are the supreme fire of transformation.

Women are Buddha, women are religious community,
Women are the perfection of wisdom.

The deconstruction of social conditioning by perceiving women as divine and sacred
in essence, is inherent in the Tantras. They exemplify joyousness and festive ambience of the
companionship of men and women (both plural), as an antithesis to the ponderous mood of
male domination. The Cakra—samvara—tantra says:
My female messengers are everywhere;
They bestow all the spiritual attainments
By gazing, touching, kissing, and embracing.
The most excellent place for yogis is
Wherever there is a gathering of yoginis;

There all the magical powers will be attained
By all those blissful ones.
The Pancha-kanyaa are the Classical counterpart of the Tantric mudra, women fresh
and passionate. The Shakti-sangama—tantra says: "Woman is the creator of the universe, the
universe is her form
There is not, nor has been, nor will be any destiny to equal that of
a woman. There is no kingdom, no ascesis, to be compared with a woman".
In her sensitive presentation of the pancha—kanyaa, Sonal captures the wild of the
wordless, love that overflows as if filled to overbrim, the fire of wandering, leaving the twilight

behind, a whole social fabric shedding its dead splendour in continuity of the body in joy.
In the incessant void, new leaves emerge. Hymns go to sleep in time without tears.

L okesb Chan dm

2O

