Panch-kanyaa
The sonnet of virginity
Report me and my cause right
To the unsatisfied.
(flamlet 1'11 Hamlet V 52343-44)

The five virgins - for that is what punch—kmu/mi means - have all used more than one
male sexually. Ahalya, the first named, was the wife of Gautam Rislii, and Indra the king of

gods, is remembered as her paramour in Vedic literature. Draupadi is legally wedded to five
brothers. Tara \ 'as the wife of the great monkey-king Vaali, and after her husband was killed
by Rama, she weds Sugriva, the younger brother of Vaali and the new king. Mandodari is

a 'l‘ara—clone, wedding Vibhishana the younger brother of her husband Ravana after the latter
\vas killed by Rama and Vibhishana installed in his place. Kunti invites no less than four gods
to father her sons.

Why are they called virgins ? Is it a case of vicious humour, like the use of 'nun' for
'prostitute' in Elizabethan English 7 We must reject any suggestion to this effect. The reverence
felt for the live by the faithful Hindus, a large number of whom do recite the verse listing
'their names every morning to make themselves 'pure', is genuine. Is it then a case of perasitic
absolution — is it really the case that these women are exemplars of the Pardoned Ones and
the l lindu hopes that the name — chanting would somehow torch off his sins in the reflected
glow? This won't do for at least two reasons. The first one is that the idea of sin in the mind
is too complex to admit a total solution. This may sound cryptic if not exactly paradoxical in
view ol the multitude of solutions, a bath in a number of rivers, for instance, but I have to

leave it at that here and mention the second one which is much more relevant. This second
reason is, that the live virgins have committed no crime at all. They are all on the right side
ot (iod right from the beginning. But they are not spectacularly so. There is nothing singular
about them. lixcept that they all had more than one bed-partner.

They are all good wives ofcourse, and good mothers, but they do not regard any one
man as the exclusive source of sexual pleasure. Ahalya, according to Valmiki, is in no way
tooled by lndra assuming the form of her husband and seems to derive more fun from this
dubious compliment to her virtue, puncturing the whole charade at the end but not before
the end, of the encounter by asking lndra to go away quickly before her husband comes. Indra
other
is clearly wrong in assuming that Ahalya would repel amorous advances from a male
she
what
exactly
is
this
than her husband, but the text, oddly enough, seems to suggest that
ould have done. This form of

matrimonial sex is somehow very valuable to her. Kunti's case

would
1s even more striking. As an unwed girl, she is given a strange gift, a mantra which
sees nothing
torce anv god to come and give her a son by carnal interaction. The sage Durvasa

21

