odd in giving her this power, she herself is not morally outraged and tries it as soon as the
sage leaves. Kunti uses this power to bring down gods as mere stallions for breading and

implements for what is presumably a purely mortal pleasure. The three gods which she uses
for getting her sons Yudhisthira, Bhima and Arjun, are all surrogate husbands under the explicit
command of her husband. So are the other two which she providgs for the other wife of her
husband, Madri, and let us note that Kunti feels 'cheated' when Madri opts for a double gift

by choosing twin gods instead of this intended single god. By extension, indeed, even the god
she had forced to get her a son, Karna, when she was as unwed girl, is a surrogate husband

under the yet - to - come command of the yet—to-come husband. As Mahabharata makes it
very clear that had Kunti chosen to declare Karna as her son, everybody would have accepted
him as the eldest brother-nobody except Kuriti is worried about the'illegitinmeu’ of her eldest son.

The wedloc controls past as well as future. The point however is that each surrogate husband
is a real lover, the thrill of the illicit sex permeates this world of legitimacy (Mahabharata l/
122/4, 1/ 122/13,). And yet, the grip on the frame of matrimonial authority is never relaxed.

We can understand it better if we look into the situation which leads Kunti's husband to
command her to get surrogate husbands in the first place.
The King Pandu is under a curse, that he will die as soon as he approaches his wife

sexually. But then how will he become a father? He discusses the matter with his wife, Kunti.
Kunti's response is illuminating. She recalls a mythological story of a widow who gets back
her husband. Not the Savitri who got her husband Satyvan back into life; the lady who came
to the mind of Kunti as the model solution to the problem is Bhadra, who did not exactly
reclaim her husband Vyusitas'va from Death but did manage to get the corpse of her husband
sexually active on certain predetermined nights (Mahabharata 1/120).
We may have a look at Draupadi. Mahabharata frequently affirms that with all the
mythological and legal coats on her multiple weddings, she is actually the wife of only one
husband, Arjun. Her other husbands are only technically in a non-adulteroi s union with her.
When she is the first to fall down during the trek to heavens, Yudhisthira assigns this very
fault to her in a convoluted twist of the code of matrimonial loyalty. She is accused of being
partial to only one of her husbands, namely Arjuna, and not distributing her favours to the
other husbands in matching proportions. This, in spite of the fact that in the most ambitious
sacrifice that Yudhisthira performs, the As'vamedlm Yujim which is the sacramental agent for
restoring the God Peace after the evil war, the grand return to Order after the chaos, it is
Draupadi and not any other wife of Yudhisthira who has the honour of symbolically copulating
with the sacrificial horse, thus setting at rest by this sacramental certification any speculation
regarding her status as the wife of Yudhisthira in terms of the theological law. The stories of

Tara and Mandodari are less spectacular but underscore the same point ~ their second husbands
' are husbands.

The five virgins are not going to remain sexually idle just because they do not have
a husband lying around. But They will not violate the matrimonial vow of faithfulness. They
are all in a way following the model suggested by Kunti, Lady Bhadra who resurrects her
husalands
' ctrise
"उठ periodically
' ' '
च sexual
३
' schice.
३) "३ ls not Indra, disguised
'~ '
for
as. Ahalya . s husband,

22

