destroyed if our bodies are destroyed. For, w 1 are psycho-morphs. Nowhere,

never, by no means has anybody been able to destory a psychogenology. Because
it is abstract, not concrete. Because it is mind, not matter. And because it is
tra nscen d eta l , not observable.

The word which I have translated by 'psychogeneology' is 'संस्था/2?" against which one
generally would find an entry like 'heart' or 'seat of emotions' in a lexicon. litymologically, it
is derived from svan :(ts) sound. Existence is a matter for sonics, not physics, Ahlya and Indra

are sonnets. And how can you destory sonnets? As the great Indian grammarian Bhartrhari
saya, a sonant (my transalation here for Shabda usually rendered word in lexicons) has no
termini, it is munimitl/zmz, it has no beginning and no end. How can you terminate something
which has no termini?

The word smut however, also means 'own death'. The word which I have translated
by 'psychomorph' is svzmt-rupu in the original and could be translated as "the form of own
death". I am sure that Yogavasistha has this quibble in mind. My gloss therefore is that Ahalya
and lndra are saying that they are formed of their own deaths. And how do you kill something
which is formed of its own death? It is a logical impossibility, a mathematical paradox which
will not be interpreted except by knowledge, by removing the disposable cover of Truth on
the Abyss, by moving beyond light and darkness.

The five virgins are formed of their own deaths. They are always already dead. And
this is exactly why the} are virgins, Kanyas. The word Kanya is etymologically related to the
root Aim which means 'to be satisfied or pleased'. A Kanya therefore is a female who
is yet
to be satisfied, not merely a female whose l’lymen, the Greek god of marriage who
died on
the day of his marriage, has remained intact.

.

To end her search, she has to move into the territory of death,
the death-space of

(I'Dymen. She has to merge the abyss into the Abyaa so that Love
is born. She has to remove
the disposable cover of truth

But the d >ath—land, the area of knowledge which is darker
than Ignorance is supposed
‘to admit only those who are not already dead becaus
e the great controller of the Gates defines
death as entry to the death — land. So the five virgins
are denied entry and their hymens mended
as soon as they are ruptured-the wall cordoning
off the abyss from the Abyss reappearing again.
Kunti, the unwed girl who wants to find out
whether the mantra to knowledge given to
her
by the sage Durvasa works, summons the Sun-go
d and when he comes and deflowers her (Karna
was born of this union) he restores her 'virgini
ty' after th 1 act (Mahabharat l / 1 10/20).
Ahalya's
very name
means 'unploughable'. And Draupadi

gets the 'virginity' back after each
marriage
(Mahabharat l/'l‘)7/l4) This has naturally
been interpreted in the popular mind as
meaning
UKit 5‘,ht) शा४म००ति०
'
'
J ‘. —
3
..
1s न Virgin
L Vt 1 y moi nmg of lILT life. But what
the controller of

the Gates does not
know is that the five Virgins possess Knowledge — they know
that the abyss
is the Abyss. They
have

internalized the death - space.
And that is how they are alwa ys already dead They are
के

24

L

l.

_,

’L

.

I.

’

