she is widowed. Kunti,
wife of Ravana,marries, Vibhishana, Ravana's brother and betrayer, after
three other sons out
her
to
and
marriage,
before
wife of I’andu, gives birth to a son, Karna,
Draupadi, wife
Indra.
of wedlock, Yudhishthira with Dharma, Bhima with Vayu, Arjuna with

of the five I’andavas, is accused of partiality to Arjuna by Yudhishthira when she loses her
vogic concentration and falls to the ground on her way to the sacred mountain Meru.
It is significant that all the five women celebrated in the myth of I’anchakanyaa are
wives and mothers who stray from the straight path of conventional virtue and the revered
ideal of the sati. Even Tara and Mandodari —— the least glamorous and the least culpable of
the five -— are guilty of having betrayed their husbands since they marry, when widowed, their
husbands' adversaries who also happen to be their brothers—in—law. They are open to suspicion
that they harboured illicit lustful leaning toward their brothers—in-law even during their
husbands' lifetime. Draupadi's alleged partiality to Arjuna was in the eyes of Dharmaputra
Yudhishthira a violation of dharma serious enough to cause her fall during her last and most
momentous journey. Kunti's lapses are transparently blatant. Ahalya, the most touching of the
sanctified five, has the flimsiest alibi--is should be noticed that all five have varying degrees
of attenuating alibis avaibe to them——for she is aware of what she is doing with Indra disguised
as Cautma. One would think that being a rishi's wife, she would be a little more zealous in
fending off the rapacious Indra. On the other hand, her deprivations as a Rish's wife might
have made her even more vulnerable.

The enigma incarnated in the myth of Panchakanyaa, then, is that these five women,
whose transgressions pose a challenge to the institution of marriage, considered sacred in all
I lindu texts, and to the hallowed ideal of the Sati Savitri, are accepted as kanyaa, the archetypes
of indestructible purity, the prutnsnmr;Iii/(I, by invoking whom early in the morning millions of
sinful householders can absolve themselves of their nightly sins. Like all enigmas, this one is
beautiful. Like all enigmas it rests on a paradox. The paradox - a figure of speech known for
its ability to illuminate and mystify simultaneously -— permeating this myth rings responsive
bells in our minds, sullied as they are by all manner of modern notions. It offers a challenge
to the fundamentalist puritan. It causes reverberations that remind us of other women -- in
other mythologies, religious traditions, folklore and secular literature--who remain virtuous
inspite of their promiscuity and deviations from socially imposed norms. It offers a hope to
all those who fall.

lt accommodates our errant humanity by deifying the deviant exemplars. It forbids us
to cast a stone on the alleged sinner. It dares to obliterate the thin line between virtue and
vice. It offers an alibi to all of us sinners. It subverts male—centered notions of female chastity
and fidelity. It honours women who listened to their bodies and their desires and in the process
betrayed their husbands and ideals.
And yet there are some other aspects of the enigmatic paradox enshrined in this five—
fold myth that should be mentioned. Why five woman, why not three or seven or nine or ?
Why these five? Aren't there some other equally or more valid claimants to membership in

this group? And then why I’anchkanyaa only? Why not I’anchkumar also?
I would like to speculate a little on the last of these seemingly frivolous non-rhetorical
questions. It suggests to me that the myth concentrates exclusively on married women who

26

