Taking a Closer Look at the Performing Arts
The principal obstacle in the transmission of the Classical Performing Arts in India is the _
Indian ethos itself. The Indian inheritence in the Classical Performing Arts, mainly dance and
music, does not seem to have been conceived in such a way that they can be transmitted today in

the way they first lived and pracitised. This is a problem that seems to lie in the very nature of our
times. The Indian Classical Performing Arts tradition is a subtle and organic inheritence which
has miraculously come down to our times single and unbranched through a millinea. This
inheritence, in the process of being made popular in a random public sense has to be submitted to
Several structural changes in its transmission, before they can be absorbed by a student whether
Indian or other.

Paradoxically the whole of India in the context of this measure can be said to lie outside
the Indian inheritence, whether the student who wishes to learn them is a foreigner or Indian

whether rural or urban. It is no use pretending that rural India in comparison to those who live
in cities and towns is somehow closer to this inheritence by merely being rural. This was true even
when these arts used to be thought in the traditional manner with an ambient life style that could

carry this art without affectation. Even at that time, rural India in the mass sense was ignorant
of these arts as they are today. They enjoyed the art when they saw or heard them for the same
reasons as we do today, for spectacle and visionary beauty but the understanding we are talking
about was as superficial then as now.
The reason for this is simple. Let us not forget that these arts are highly processed arts. It
is not possible for example to get up one day and do an Arai Mandi or an Adavu in say Bharta рдк
Natyarn or produce a tranquil aakar in Bhairav as you can get up and dance in a Disco or sing
Happy Birthday to you. The art is too specialised for that sort of spontaenity and needs high levels
of awareness, insight and dedication even to stand straight in the pose of a Godess and make

people believe you. This is as difficult to sing as a Shadja of a Raga that would possess even the
rnerest trace of power and presence.
There is therefore in my View no substance in the foreigness or otherwise of a student of
the art. From all evidence the art is equidistant from an Indian living in Delhi, an American from
Wichita Kansas and a villager in Salem Tamil Nadu.

At no time in its long history was any of the Indian Classical Performing Arts- taught in the
mass, and some how behind our minds lies the issue of making both dance and music as casual
and as routine as any franchised product in our public education system. We are therefore
required to redefine these arts in novel ways. Originally the art was too intimate and vis a vis.

Even the crafts were treated the same way. For only one saree would be woven on one loom
at any one time, the blacksmith would temper only one sword, or one arrow, and in Miraj only
one Tanpura would be made at one time tailored to your needs for timbre, weight and balance.
The ancient world in which these arts and crafts were all a part knew
that all knowledge

was material and only limited quantities of it were available at one place at one
time. It was felt
therefore, that if this knowledge was too widely distributed each one got so little that this

28

