knowledge was of no real use to him in making any true difference to his life. This kind of useless
knowlege, it was believed, would merely destabilise the natural serenity of the uninformed and
destory also the coherence of shared ignorance, of any community of people. The Gurus of music

and dance of the ancient world did not seem to want to spread the knowledge of these arts too
widely. Their concern was principally directed towards the transformation of the human being
because the hidden agenda in almost every classical art in India was spiritual.
This proclivity of the Indian inheritence to transform small groups of people, sometimes
just one at a time, lies in the knowledge that in life minute quantities of creativity and goodness ‘
is enough to balance an enormous volume of mindless mechanical action and general evil, much

in the same proportion as the visible portion of an iceberg balances a whole continent of ice
submerged beneath the blue of the ocean.

This is of course why these arts seem awkward and ungainly when transmitted in the
format of college and semester and also when these arts are thus embodied, has to rinse out of
itself all their essential significance and disquiet and made simplistic for common use.

The most notable impact of the modernising process is however on dance even more than
on music. Time sits much more lightly on Indian Classical Music for its material physical
components are minimal. Dance on the other hand participates and engages with a variety of
visual and other material attributes that age quickly, and disintegrates. So dancers live a life
racing with time. However if we closely observe the inner impulses of Indian Classical dance it

can be seen that its essence is anchored beyond the reach of time. For it if had been an art merely
concerned with the highly perishable allure of the human body or with the changing geometries
of space through choreography and design, or with the art of story telling, or had it been merely
a matter of spectacle and spread, the art's guiding principles would have been differently
a
conceived. For in all cultures precautions are taken by classical dance to define itself in such
making
way that it is able to stall the threat of time. In the West for example, Ballet fights time by
group.
to
subsidiary
solo
making
and
motion
of
matter
a
as
dance athletic by defining it largely
life of
and
texture
the
hides
that
Another element that helps to stall time is to adopt a make—up
that
those
are
the face. In India of course the dances that have fought and won the race with time

youth
use masks or develop a make up that mimics a mask, where the dancer's personal age and
have
paradigm
Indian
the
within
dances
are disconnected from the art. In actual fact the classical
that is irrepressible
nothing to do with youth or beauty. It is concerned with presence, a quality
challenge in the art that
and beyond calculation. But very few dancers recognise this concealed
defies a dancer to transcend her calendar and win her freedom.

dances have lived and
This is the point where the inhering culture within which these
on of woman. There
definiti
its
in
known
grown enters the picture. The measure of a culture is truly
s, or that purely
societie
primitive
is for example the Mother Goddess, the fertility approach of
weights of the modern West.
pneumatic thing of vital statistics, of measurements and

derived from mythology and
In India there are may varieties of definitions mostly
function in the larger life of man. These
religious sources attribtues of conduct, presence and

made real in many significant ways
varieties of awarencess of women have been fortified and
of passage as daughter, wife, sister,
in women's place for example in domestic ritual, in the rites

29

