mother. Many of these elements act as reminders. Reminding man of the true nature of women
urging him to look beyond shapes and surfaces into the quivering essence of that mysterious
otherness of woman's nature that seems to lie in a direction at right angles to the being of man.
In these acts of reminding, make up, dress and jewellery play a crucial part. The modern

Western approach to make up, is a process of adding and building, covering the surface of the
face and hiding it, exaggerating or attenuating inheritence. By washing off the natural oils of the
hair every head seems to be wearing a wig. Then given a blue rinse at once a metallic halo

‘ canonises the women. Finally with conditioners and lacquers, glosses and salves and mascara,
the original untrarnelled girl withdraws from View behind a carapace of wax and fixers at the
bidding of Elizabeth Arden, Revlon, or Max Factor. Soon this shell of make up, this chromium

recepticle does not seem to have a resident person or only very little.
The Indian approach to make-up, on the other hand is the reverse. Here the attempt is to
reveal and not to conceal. The make up tradition of India believes that if a girl is a girl it is good
enough. If her hormones are free and running there is very little you can do to improve her
indubitable soverignty.
A red dot placed in the position between the eyebrows, where the pineal gland is supposed

to be, lights up the face with a radience whose source you cannot locate. Kajal, which should be
properly made from a mixture of lamp black, clarified butter, antimony and camphor is applied
within the eyes outlining the canthis. This pricks the eyes with a thin film of tears that can make
the world go giddy with a glance. The hair has been massaged with oil and washed with a finly
powdered lentil that in cleaning does not wash off the very life of the hair and which later has .
to be artificially restored by chemical highlights and conditioners. The Indian girl's hair lies thick
and close to her scalp revealing the canny bounce and gleam of true nourishment flowing down
heavy and black and luxurient to the waist and sometimes long enough to sit upon.

Oil on a healthy skin does not make the skin greasy. It makes lights upon it. Grease occurs
when skin and oil do not cooperate. This is a sign of ill health. The Indian girl's face is massaged
with oil and then washed clean. Later when the hair has been put up or plaited, the kajal applied in
the eyes, the skin of her face smiles at you, a soft, understanding, tolerant smile, that is at once

numinous and visionary. Then touch the ear lobes with the cheapest and the smallest bauble and
string round neck a thin black rope and pendant and once and for all the face is mounted and framed.

Obviously this approach to making up tells you what the dancer in a culture must strive

to become. This inner presence which is the pith of the classical Indian dance is something that
like youth and figure does not diminish with age and living. For this inheritence is not
personal
but flows from essence. So if the essence is not cultivated it is better to wear masks or
turn athletic
and let the dancer use his or her body exclusively on the level of the dynamics
of youth and
punishing training alone.

A new approach to transmission is perhaps the only way out to grasp
this timeless part of
the artist. A definition that will articulate the values on which the
art is built and merge these into .
the being and life of a dancer.

Ragh av a R. Men 0n .

30

