The Modern Woman in India
The last ten years have seen great changes in lifestyles sweep across urban India, as we
approach the 21st century armed with the latest in technology as well as an open-door trade
policy. Even more dramatic changes are just around the corner.
One of the prime beneficiaries of all this change could be the Indian housewife. Better
education has given her the qualifications to get a job that fulfills her intellectual capacities. Her
additional earnings give the family access to the technological wonders that release her from
much of the physical work required in the kitchen. रे
The only impediment to this emancipation that is still lurking in the remote and not-so—
remote corners of our society, is perhaps our own Attitude. The attitude of men towards women,
and the attitude of women towards themselves.
If women are to take their true place in Society, as valuable contributers to its intellectual

and economic life, they must first learn to view themselves as intellectually independent entities. .
And men must learn to view their women partners, at home and at work, not as possesions or

potential possesions, but as individuals in their own right, capable of independant intellectual,

physical and spiritual existance.
Many of the shackles that have bound Indian women are the result of urban insecurity. The
purdah—system was one of the precursers of these restrictions, resulting from th hordes of aliens
that invaded and looted India since 800 AD. Even fifty years ago, women's contribution and
position in many village societies was far more equal to their male partners than in the cities.
Fortunately, such insecurities no longer exist in our urban centres. It is time, therefore to do away
with unnecassary taboos.

Sociologists will tell us that the position of women in any society is linked with economic

and political conditions, among other factors. We in urban India will soon find parity with the
west in our economic conditions. But in looking for inspiration to truly emancipate our women,
we at the Centre for Indian Classical Dances did not have to look to the West. Instead, we looked

back at more prosperous and peaceful times in our own past, and sure enough we found shining
examples of many emancipated women in our literature. We are proud to present these legendary
Indian women through Sonal Mansingh's powerful choreographies.

Sanjiv Saran .

31

