DIRECTOR’ S

NOTE

Pension, that reward for drilling one’s youth in Government service
seems to be one of the most humane practical adjustments oi a burearatic
arrangements - and yet a little carelessness can steel away the silverness from
the boon. The expectancy of a fiinanciai assisrance gradually drains a family
of its resources............
They smile and say ‘ Later‘.

No one dares to refuse. but the concern
to help an old man. expressed as sympathy, never gathers the mornemtum
of efficiency. No one seems to hold the buruelucratic machinery in control - it
moves at its own established pacelonguid and callous. unconcerned and unperturbed. The rhyttrn is convincing only because of its repetitive dominance. It is

this rhythm that designs the lite patterns of individuals and some where
manages to escape the responsibility. It claims to aim at universality and uni-

versatlity is much an abstraction

as

DELHI

itself -

that

standardizing

meter

whicn gives this rhythm a genuineness. making it seem the heart controlling all
the organs. even of a diseased body Peons and Clerks in offices and hospitals
remain purely instrumental in spreading unspelt and undeﬁned pollution - and
evsn so unconsciously. An impersonalized method of functioning, breeds indifference and defines all its componants of a dynamism that would clearly
express a relation with a human being in preference to dead and laid out norms
and procedures.

A retired man looks forward to a peaceful. contented old age in the village of
his childhood, where he seeks the luxury of joyousness. A man's last days
are horrowed by the burden of being declared dead - till the burnde drags him
away into oblivion.

In this struggle, the entire faimly is trapped for he is the bread earner--.
ons and
There is no combat. no battle ﬁelds. no guards only peons. applicati
ents
appointm
promises. Entreatries are headed. letters answared. unansward.
ness
made, un-made - a pit where the dividing line between hope and helpless
death
and
is indiscernible. Man finds himself in a gtage of coma. where life
And wifere breathing stops. unnoticed. The
fuse in a state still existent.

