SUNDAY, SEP'IllET/I‘l

Artists castigate Sangeet Natak

Almdemi; boycott/estival '
Excelsior Correspondent
JAMMU, Sept 24: To prOtest
against the discriminatory attitude
of Sangeet Natak Akademi (SNA)
for neglecting important regional
languages included Ladakhi,
Pahari , Gojri and Punjabi in its
much publicised four day Music
‘ and Theatre festival commencing
here today at Abhinav Theatre the artists community representing these neglected languages
today announced total boycott
the festival and sent strong worded letter to Prime Minister and
other authorities
They were up in arm against
the 'Sangeet Natak Akademi' ,
New Delhi,which is organising
'Natya
Samagama'
from
September 24 to September 28 in
Jammu for its biased approach
towards State‘s plural culture. The
festival is being organised to
showcase States plural ethos
which is in complete without participation of all the sects of society, the SNA press note said.
"The artists of neglected languages in a joint statement
termed this festival as an attempt
to fork the plural and secular culture. The artists alleged that SNA
has invited only Kashmiri and
Dogri artists and ignored rest of
languages spoken in the State.
They stated that we the speak-

Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi live
together as a part of States Culture
but SNA wants a divergence amon
JK communities and thus they
neglected our languages, culture,
artists to participate in this event.
The artists said , as per SNA
ofﬁcials around 600 artists from
J&K are participating in the event
but none ﬁom Ladakhi, Gojri ,
Pahari and Punjabi have been
invited or booked to perform during the festival .
The artists said SNA is Spending more than one crore rupees on
this event but our artists have been
pushed to wall in this ill conceived
festival. Artists said they will
shortly meet higher authorities
against these discrirninations on
part of SNA for non representation of regional languages in the
festival.
. '
They jointly castigated the
SNA authorities had sent a memorandum to Prime Minister Union
Minister for Culture , Governor
J&K, Chief Minister and SNA
body demanding an inquiry into it.
Those artists who signed the
statement and memorandum
included Sonam Dolma, Shring
Narbo,
Farooq
Pardesi,
Joginderpal Singh Kuka, Razaq
Dilnawaz, Deep Kour, Dilawar

Khan, Awara Yusuf, Gulnaz
Chowdhary, Master Kardar, K H
Rather, Sugrand Sindhu, H S Jogi,
ers of Dogri, Kashmiri, Ladakhi, Zakir Fayazi and others.

