as he sees it. Either he is attracted or repelled. A play is done to create a
reaction. If the audience does not react one way or another, it is an indifferent
work and therefore, worthless. Perhaps the only time I was tempted to explain
my play was in the case of ”Aadhe Adhure”.
The arena style sitting plan, the
multiple set showing the entire house helped to create

the

asphyxiating

atmosphere prevailing in the house and to bring the production close to what
I had conceived—a naturalistic film rather than a realistic play. Even then as
one critic admits “Some critics failed to understand why such painfully elaborate sets were thus, constructed”.
There is no question about how I take to criticism. I am not hypocritically immune to it. No director can be absolutely indifferent to criticism. Those
directors who say so have to be the "know alls" or "established".
Regarding the criticism of subjectivity I confess । believe in personal
expression and subjectivity in theatre. । find myself asking my audience—'This
happened to me ? Did it happen to you, too?’-—As a way of checking with other
people whether they experience things the same way I do.

Today the individual has become the highest form and greatest bane of
artistic creation. The smallest wound or pain of ego is examined under a
microscope as if it were of eternal importance. The artist considers his isolation,
his subjectivity, his individualism almost holy.
Perhaps that explains my
directing Jai Shankar Prasad’s “Puraskar”—which I had wanted to direct, ever
since 1 had first read the story in class 9. ”Puraskar" epitomised for me the
age old conflict between love for one's motherland and personal love in the
romantic heroine, the passionate and strange Madhulika (whom

I

have always

associated with a very special friend, Medha) whose loyalty to both country
and lover emerges as supreme.

First to betray her lover for her country, and

then, to die with him for her love.
The play z’Wild Strawberries" was subjectivity at its height and the play
flopped. There is no such insane personal expression in “Shuturmurgh"—which a lot of people rate as my best production or even in over ambitious

thoughtless “Tughlaq”~—but all the same my stamp is there on all for they are
all my plays.

Right?

Besides subjectivity has its own

often get a chance of being subjective.

limits—one does not

For, is one always an unrequited

lover ?
Regarding my relationships with the people who work with me—True ।

may be a son of a bitch to work with—but isn't the director the sole interpretor
of the play ? Should not the whole unit move in one direction .7 The more
definite and clear the “marching orders”—the easier it is to reach the goal
which has been set.

This I believe is the only way to get something done out

of a chaos, only then people sit up tight and not take it easy. This is the basis

