In a service organisation the main beneficiaries are its clients and in a
mutual benefit organisation are all it's members. Since Ruchika does not confirm to either of these in totality, it has to take the best of both. Because of
our financial aspect we emerge as a service organisation.

For effective working of the service cycle we have to stimulate positive
feelings in our donors. If we are weak at this we shall soon lose them. We
are working
market.

in two

markets i.e Donors or advertisers market and audience

For effective functioning of these markets, we have to work under a set

system.
The major challenge here is to deveIOp sufficient funds for Ruchika
through competing effectively for donor interest and attention against a very
large number of other groups which are also seeking support from the same
donors.

Herein the members should realise the role of cornpetetion.

Ruchika is a group of persons who are creating benefits not for others as
much for ourselves.

We have a major exchange relation within the group too.

The executive committee requires a thorough understanding of the G B's needs,
desires and attitudes if we are to achieve our goals. The executive must face
the fact that the G B's attitude and financial stability should form an important

part of the policy planning.
Ruchika started out with a clear purpose to serve a class of human needs

and after some time it became inwardly oriented. The early charisma was
routinised and it became rule bound, and officialdom emerged. Then it became
It
extremely efficient in servicing its original purpose at minimum costs.
the
hearing
in
It became interested
became a casually responsive group.

opinion of its publics as they casually flow in.

Policy changed and it became

production oriented— improving output with reducing costs.

We should not

but
try to sell our productions as they are to the public even if they want them,
we at Ruchika should have a societal marketing concept—concerning consumers
as the key to
need orientation approach and long term consumer satisfaction

satisfy our goals.

In other words profits through service.

s
A balancing act is required to achieve an equilibrium of audience demand

and our aims.

When such a balance is achieved only then we can claim to be

following a very sound approach towards financial stability.

—— U M E S H P H A LP H E R

