with nothing to do-out of
1972 : Hot May afternoon. Group of young people
A
interest in theatre.
school, not yet in college. Time on their hands and an
ka.
production of Suno Janme Jai at YMCA. The birth of Ruchi
Three month later-a new lot of people join the group.
houses, good reviews-One Day in Aashad succeeds.

Intensive rehearsals, full

This time-the political satire—
Another three months, another production.
an
Shuturrnurg. An unqualified success. An interest in theatre grows into
idea of perrnanance.
On the green lawns of Modern School the first ad-hoc committee meets to draw
up the constitution. Ruchika has come to stay.
1973 : Between visits to the old Secretariat and Bank for registration and court
fees, quorums and majorities; Ruchika spreads its tentacles to include : audiovisual shows of rock operas JCS and Tommy, the beginning of what becomes
a tradition of one-act plays every summer-entitled Tryout, and presents its first

major production at Gandhi Memorial Hall-Adhe in Ertglish.-......
1974 : After the near disaster of ’Vultures’ that plays to a packed and overflowing hall. comes ’Ambush'-a half baked play for T. V. Discussion and meetings,
policy and perspective debates at Ring Road, Defence Colony, Maharani
Ruchika begins to question it’s identity.
weather our first storm.

Bagh-

The need to continue is felt and we

In the summer, two years after our inception we hold

our first workshop with Barry John, Rati Bartholomew and Kusurn Haider

that

culminates in an exciting Tryout : Two. Later, Indian culture comes alive in

Puraskar.

A tradition of good theatre begins creeping into our brochures.

1975 : A sudden spurt of summer activity-two

Tryouts-the existential anguish

of The Fall, the triuph of the Eternal Bourgeosie, the raw farce of the Proposal
the mystery of Butterfly and the startling relevance of Striptease ' with the
prornolgation of emergency, the use of the tricolour in the set, the. imperious
commands of a female hand and the censoring of a review
And then our first

