1‘

NOTES

AND

COUNTER

NOTES

BY

lONESCO

Strictly speaking, my play is not even a satire : it is a fairly objective
description of the growth of fanaticism, of the birth of a totalitarianism that
grows, propagates, conquers, transforms a whole world and, naturally being
The 'aim of this play was to denounce, to

totalitarian, transforms it totally.

it seeps
expose, to show how an ideology gets transformed into idolatry, how
which
into everything, how it reduces the masses to hysteria, how an idea,
monstrous
was reasonable enough for discussion at the start, can become

or contiwhen leaders, then totalitarian dictators, governing islands, acres
nt
nents, use it as a powerful stimulant, a strong dose of which has a maligna
and monstrous effect on the “people" turning them into an hysterical mob.
Some critics blame me for denouncing evil without saying what good is. l
have been reproached for not letting Berenger say what ideology inSpired
his resistance. They take this to be a fundamental objection : but it is so
easy to rely on a system of thought that is more or less mechanical. If I set
up a ready-made ideology in opposition to other ready-made ideologies,
which clutter up the brain, I should only be opposing one system of rhinoceric
slogans to another. It seems to me, absurd to ask a dramatist to produce a
‘Bible’, a way to salvation; it is absurd to think for a whole world and give an
automatic philOSOphy : a playright poses problems.

People should think

about them, when they are quiet and alone, and try and resolve them for
themselves, without constraint;

An unworkable solution one has found for

oneself is inﬁnitely more valuable than a ready-made ideology that stops men
from thinking.

MOVE

AND

COUNTER

MOVE

BY

THE

DIRECTOR

Originally performed in the opening days of this year—the play emerged
as a strong protest against the growing tide of Youth Congress euphoria that
swept a lot of people along with it.

Three months later the tide became a

backlash—and the pr0pagators of the Youth Congress those who voted in
the Janata.

Now—a bare six months later—~-the voice of the crowd has

begun changing again : Rhinoceros remains as relevant as it was then.

