DIRECTORS NOT E
It is no mere coincidence, that with this evening’s production of Strindbergs

THE FATHER, Ruchika has once again found a play written either in or about
events in Europe at the turn of the century-which is of tremendous relevance
to us here in India, today. The beginning of this century was the dawn of
the modern age—an age of turnultous events—of revolution, change, new

alternatives in almost every ﬁeld of life-politics, economics, arts, science etc.

It is for this reason that we have chosen plays dealing with the early years
of this century; themes such as the need for openess about sex in Spring
Awakening, the plight of the revolutionary in The Just Assassins, the triumph
of The Eternal Bourgeosie in a disintegrating society, the broad caricature of
a feudal order in The Bear, or the conflict of Science and Religion, of Womens
emancipation and Mans free-thinking Ideals in The Father. All of the above
themes are of relevance to us here today : therefore are we socially in fact
only at the stage of breaking away from Victorian taboos '?

But our reason for chosing this play was not merely because it is a clear
record of the conflict of ideas in a changing society—but more so

because

we felt that Strindberg had managed to capture in this play, the seeds of the
element of distrust and misunderstanding between two people that leads to

their mutual destruction. Earlier productions of this play have emphasized
the tragedy of the Captain driven mad by his villianous wife. Our interpretation however seeks to leave the blame for his ultimate destruction some
where between the two of them—not in one or the other, but in a series of
incidents viewed differently by two people and therefore destroying them.
The tragedy is not in the speech, but in the pause between.

With Best; Compliments from

GOEL' ENTERPRISES
Importers, EXporters & Consultants

4378/4,

Murari

Lal

Street,

Ansari Road, Darya Ganj
New Delhi-110002

Phones :Oﬁ. 279867

Cable

Res. 222518
: GOELBROS

