BHANGRA THEN AND NOW
A DOZEN teams of bhangra and giddha, each bent on outgoing the other, were brought
together here in Tagore Theatre on Tuesday at

a competition, organised by Lok Kala Manch,

Chandigarh. The teams came from different towns of Punjab as well as the city and the
novelty was a team of tiny tots, three to eight years old, from Patiala. The audience response was
tremendous.
The gay and vigorous f'olk dances of Punjab, in their journey from the rural expanse to the
u; ban stage seem to have lost much of their spontaneity although they have acquised a certain amount

of sophistication.
Among those

who resent this transformation is Mr. Balbir Singh Sekhon, one of the pioneers

who brought bhanagra on the National scene. The Lok Kala Manch also honoured him. Mr. Sekhon,
who actel as a judge at the competition, feels that commercialisation has considerably destroyed the
folk essence of the dance. Recalling the early days that 25 years ago when their team from Patiala,
led by Manohar Deepak add him, took the dance for the ﬁrst time to the All-India Festival of Dances

at Bombay, the people were charmed by its freshness and vigour. Mrs. Nargis Dutt, who was there
told thern., “For the ﬁrst time I have seen me!) dances like men.” and Vijanthimala spent some time
and incorporated bhangra steps in a dance number in the ﬁlm “New Delhi’ ’.

I

But on the urban stage today, bhangra has lost its rmnlines, benmans Mr. Sekhon.

tonous symmetry has set in.

A mono-

The dancers take the help of accessories and the steps or even “Bale

Bale” and “Ohe”—sounds of exhileration—are stylised.

state.

0n the other hand Giddha still retains some of its orginality, though the bolis are turning
The original bolis had a ﬂexibility , to suit of occasion and mimicry to go with it, he says.

Speaking about Bhangra and Giddha in ﬁlms, Mr. S khon who has done Bhangra for ﬁve ﬁlms
including the famous “Yeh Desh Hai Veer Jawanon Ka” in “Naya Daur”, feels that the Punjabi folk
dances are distorted by ﬁlm-makers who add to them an overdose of sensual appeal.

“I am all for

the popularising of the dance but the original from should be retained as far as possible,” he says.
The steps and actions of Bhangra which Mr. Sekhon performed at the close of the competetion

showed the difference between that the dance once was and what it is today. The dancers, he says,
should try to retain, the original ﬂavour and not succumb to commercialisation and renuce the dance
to a well-choreographed display for the tourist.

NI RU P A MM A DU TT

