PSIEC

Providing large scale help to sma
ll scale

Industry.

Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation Ltd., ever
since its inception in March, 1962 has
been like the legendary tiny plant growing into a giant
tree, extending its numerous branches in
different directlons to bear multiple fruits.

Here is how PSIEC helps you :—

Supply of Raw Materials:

PSIEC is an assured source of supply of essential raw materials through its net-work of
Depots
in Punjab.

Important raw material viz.

Iron & Steel & Pig Iron are procured and distributed

to the Small Scale Industrial Units of Punjab.
Infrastructural Development :
The Corporation is engaged in the development of planned Industrial Focal Points in different
parts of Punjab including backward and sub-montane areas. Recently Self-Financing Scheme

has also been evolved to further boost Industrial Infrastructural development in Punjab.
Marketing Assistance :
PSIEC renders marketing assistance to Small Scale Industrial Units of Punjab through its fullﬂedged marketing division and net work of Emporia
Phulkari Ernporia of Corporation are
situated at Chandigarh, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala and cutting across the
borders of the State, Plaulkari Emporia are capturing the hearts of connoisseurs of brassware,
ivory, cutglass, silk. wools, carpets and lot more at Delhi, Calcutta and Bombay.
Export Promotion :
PSIEC is a recognised Export.House for promoting exports of the products of Small Scales
Industries. Goods produced in tiny workshops of Punjab are now ﬁnding their way to
sophisticated foreign markets through PSIEC. Punjab Trade Centre Ludhiana a unit of the
Corporation is providing marketing assistance to Small Scale Industrial units by displaying
their products and giving other facilities for internal as well as external marketing.
Handicraft Promotion :

Promotion of handicrafts constitutes one of

the more important points in Prime Minister’s

20-Point Economic Programme for the economic uplift of weaker sections of society. PSIEC’s
special Handicraft Cell helps the smallest craftsmen by supplying thcm raw materials and also
by providing guidance and training.

(BUILD

A

BRIGHT

FUTURE

WITH PSIEC)

MANAGING DIRECTOR

V

Punjab Small Industries Er Export Corporation
POST BOX NO. ll,

SECTOR l7—D, CHANDIGARH.

