THE PLAYWRIGHT
Mahesh Elkunchwar, born in 1939, belongs to a generation of young playwrights which gave a decisively new turn to the modern
theatre in Marathi when he started writing in the late ‘60s
Elkunchwar has nevertheless pushed its conventions the furthest, yet in contemporary Indian theatre, expanding its naturalisrn to
points where it yields to new languages of theatre. It has been a complicated path he had to tread, from the ‘aggressively modernist’
early work-Sultan, |--lo| i , until his Garbo-to a later phase (which followed seven years of total abstinence from writing) which may now
be described as quieter, more mature and introspective. ( lt accompanies - widespread recognition of his achievments-achievments
that may now distance his own particular preoccupations from those of his ‘generation’, which indeed may even isolate him from the
general performative trend of the Indian stage.)
Wada Chirebandi has been performed on the Marathi, Hindi and Bengali stage, and has also been filmed for television. He has
written two more plays since that epochal return to theatre after a long break-Pratimbimb and Atmakatha.

Elkunchwar himself is however, convinced that this is for him only the begining - a true begining even as he puts behind him his
'
earlier self-conscious experirnentations and the overt edge of expressionism to come to his own uncompromising terms with the Mahesh Elkunchwar
world and the creative inpulse within himself.

VA A S A N S l J E E RN A N I
This play deals with human relationships. It's about a man (60-ish), counting the last moments of his life. He is dying and waiting for death to come. Those last few
minutes have been magnified into a one hour few minutes play. It’s about him and his family. So everything happens in the minds of the characters. I mean है they do
speak to each other from time to time but the major important happenings or important thoughts are in the minds of the characters. They have to speak so that the
audience can speak to them and I tried to lift one layer after another. And there is no end to it. l mean a human relationship which looked like this at one point looks
totally different at another. And it is an eternal surprise. How people try to reach out to one another but how at that time they hide themselves behind so many
facades and masks-there is not just one mask there are 20. At the end of it you realize, my God, 60 years of my life and it's responsibilities... Maybe l was or I was
Mahesh Elkunchwar
not open enough. Maybe I was not courageous enough to confront people, to confront relationships-so many things. It‘s all about that.

from S

