SHRI SATISH A LEKA F?
Shri Sat/sh Alekar, born on 30th January, 1949 is one of the leading
Marathi playwrights of the country. Jhulta PhOol (1973), Mickey Aani
MemSaheb (1974), Mahanirvan (1975), Mahapaur (1976), Begum

Barve (1979), Bhinta (1981) Saniwar-Fiaviwar (1982) and Bus-stop

(1985) are his best-known plays. His play "Jhulta Phool” was adjudged

the best play, best direction & best acting play in the lnteruniversity

one-act play competition. This play was also awarded the best oneact play collection in 1973 by the Maharastra Government He also
wrote the screenplay for the best regional film ( 1 977— 78) "Jait re
Jait". He directed “Hama/ Panchayat”, a film on Hailway's coolie union

for the Maharastra Government. He also holds such distinguished
positions as founder member of Theatre Academy, Pune, Jury member

of 26th National Film Festival, member of Maharastra State Literary

and Culture forum. -

PIYUSH MISHRA‘
A graduate from National School of Drama, Piyush Mishra is a
legend-in-the-Making. His competence is not confined to any single
area of theatre activities. More than a "Wonder-King" as the media
love to call him, he is as much inevitable as a theatre activist known

for his stress on what is healthy and relevant for the World of theatre.
He has won the unconditional applause of theatre-lovers for his
performance in plays like Hamlet, Nekrassov, Man Equals Man,

Comedy of Terrors, Endgame, Galileo, Jab Shahar Hamara Sota
Hai, Holi and Yeh Jo Zindagi Hai Na.

He has been fountainhead of many adaptations of famous musicals
and classics in Hindi with original music and lyrics by him. These

include West Side Story, Blood Brothers, Dream of Peter Mann,

Fiddler 0n the Roof, The Time of Your Life and Payment as Pledged.
As if not satisfied by his own contribution to Hindi theatre, Piyush has
offered original scripts like Gagan Damaama Bajyo, Woh Ab Bhi

Pukarta Hai and Mujhe Bhi Chand Chahiye.

'

His one-man performance in Nirmal Verma's "Dusri Duniya", Vijay

Dan Detha’s "Duvidha " and Arnold Wesker's " Whatever Happened
to Betty Lemon " is yet another feather to his cap.

