‘Raavan’ drama was staged by the Bihar Art Theatre at Kalidas Rangalaya for
about three months on all holidays. The then Governor Shri Jagannath Kaushal liked
the play, but did not appreciate the gloriﬁcation of the character of Raavan. He criticised
the author for portraying Raavan in such a way,

This happened in my presence.

I grew restless and wanted to go to the stage

to give a beﬁtting reply, but Anil Babu caught my hand,

He himself went to

the

stage

and gave full explanation in his lecture in the way I liked, This was an example of his
g re at n e ss ०

I had a pleasant encounter with Anil Babu when he wanted

to make

some

changes in the last scene of that drama. I protested, but had to yield before his argument.
He wanted to make Raavan as a staunch saviour of the down-trodden—the nonAryans.
Later on he translated my Hindi Raavan into Bengali Daily he used to come to my ofﬁce
to read out the scenes in Bengali of Raavan, He solicited my opinions on his translation
and appreciated them. He had a strong desire to stage Raavan in Bengali, but this could

not be fulﬁlled. He claimed that this would be the ﬁrst Hindi drama in

Bengali when

published.
On my advice, the then Vice-Chancellor of L, N Mithila University, Darbhanga,

agreed to introduce ‘DRAMATICS’ as a subject in MA

course and invited me to

prepare the syllabus for the same, Anil Babu was a member of the syllabus-committee He
took pains to go to Darbhanga

and ﬁnalise

happy to say that after all there was one
a subject to study,

the course

which is still followed,

He was

University in Bihar to recognise Drama tics as

Anil Babu had a Unique personality, He was critised by many. But he hardly paid
any attention to it, He was straight-forward in his speech and ﬁrm in his pursuit for

development of Dramatic art in Bihar, Kalidas Rangalaya was his greatest contribution
to Theatre-lovers. To perpetuate his fond memory, it is necessary that a suitable marble
statue of this great dramatist is installed at the Rangalaya.

¢K है *

