NANDA DEVI
The Wilderness of mount Kailash was so awesome

that everyone prayed for a king to set it in order.
Mohari Narayan offered himself. He was offered
the throne to sit, and the block to roll. Neither could
he settle down on the throne nor could he roll the

block. So, Mohari Narayan was out.
One day Narad came and Informed that the would-

be king of kailash is in Kali Bagrah-The great Bal
Ishwar. He too was offered his services to find a

bride for Bal Ishwar and presuaded Himalaya Raj to
. marry his daughter Bali Nanda to Bal Ishwar. They
were married.

.- One day Bal Ishwar told Nanda to stay in Kailash
while he would make a visit to Mohari. Inspite of Bal
Ishwar's pleas, Nanda insisted on accompanying
him. There she, found an abandoned new born calf.
She carressed it and became enamoured of him. She
prayed to Bal Ishwar that, "My lord we donot have a
progeny. Why not adopt this calf. look, how
~ handsome is he". Bal Ishwar said that, "Beware of

Pity and of attachments. Besides, what shall we do
by raising a son, for, he may well turn out a rasCal.
"But Nanda refused to agree and brought the calf
along with her to Kailash. on the eleventh day
Naming Ceremony, the calf annouced his name "
Meghsuri" himself. As he grew up to manhood,
everyone started complaining of his waywardness.
So, Bal Ishwar built a house for Meghasuri in
Annapuri and sent him there. Narad in his
wonderings once went to Annapuri, met Megasuri

and then visited Kailash. Nanda inquired about
Meghaswi. Narad told Nanda, "you look upon
Meghawi as your adopted son, but he has evil
designs on you. Be warned, he intends to carry you
off to Annapuri." " So be it" said Nanda, "he Will
have to pay for his sin. "
Meghasuri, with nine Lakh demons surrounded
Kailash while Bal Ishwar was in Sarnadhi. Enraged,
Nanda destroyed all the demons except Meghaswi.

' She asked him to go back to Annapuri. But
Meghaswi remained adarnart. So she asked him to

come during ’Chat’ for the marriage. Meghasuri
returned to Annapuri.

