NSD: The Brecht Connection
National School of Drama had discovered Brecht, like the rest of the world, through
English translations of his plays and essays expounding his theories as a
playwright, director and political activist, quite early on. But the School experienced
the vastness and depth of Brecht’s works in 1968 only when Carl Webber directed
The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
Brecht who enjoyed some renown in Germany during the 19203 and thereafter
among German speaking people not living under the Nazi regime, his
achievements did not become widely recognized until after World War ll. First

translated into English followed by in many other national and regional languages
of the world, his works have enhanced his reputation to the point where he is

generally considered one of the great dramatists of the twentieth century. He is, in
fact, only person after Stanislavsky who has influenced the World theatre scene

during this century. He has not only influenced post war generations of dramatists,
he has revolutionised the acting and production techniques also.
Brecht has written some forty plays, a number of adaptations and the essays that
present his revolutionary theories on the function of theatre and on staging. Of his
voluminous theorital writings, the one that most clearly summarizes his thoughts is
the Little Organum for The Theatre.

Brecht the playwright was distinctly different from the Brecht the director. Brecht’s

productions of his own plays often rant contrary to his theory. For example,
although he insisted that spectators ought not to identify themselves with Mother
Courage he had created a character so richly human that audiences were involved
despite his intentions.

Brecht was a total theatre artist whose final statement was his own production of

his play. Although he borrowed ideas and some times entire plots from other
writers, his genius created works uniquely his own.

Studies at the NSD include study of world drama through plays right from Greeks
to the contemporary playwrights. Sanskrit dramatists and modern Indian drama

also form integral part of these studies. Students at NSD also study production
process, acting theories and practicals and theatre techniques practised all over
the world for the past centuries.

Brecht, man of the century, a total theatre person, and our contemporary who had
many dimensions to himself partly discovered and many possibilities yet to be

explored was of prime importance for a theatre student. NSD has tried to study the

