choosing this path that Brecht‘s plays present problems of our time before the
audience who encounter contemporary reality in its most naked form. This is the

reason why Brecht’s plays are invariably linked to concrete historical reality.
Brecht has often chosen actual historical events and then examined them as a
sociologist. If the immense scientific development and the research related to
nuclear physics inspires Brecht to write ‘Galileo’ in order to understand the
relationship between scientific progress and social responsibility, then the

experience of the First World War provides him with the ideas leading to ‘Mother
Courage and her Children’ to present war as seen through the eyes of common

people and to examine values such as valour, patriotism, religious bigotry and
personal relations in the context of military conflict. Even when Brecht sets aside
historical subjects to choose Asian folk tales as he has done in ‘The Caucasian

Chalk Circle’ and ‘The Good Woman of Szechuan’, his basic aim is to understand
problems of contemporary life.
This is the main reason why it is not easy to adapt Brecht’s plays. The barriers
between Eastern and Western ways of life, cultures and attitudes present one kind
of problems; the other kind emerges from the historical setting of Brecht’s plays.
The ease with which ‘The inspector General’ can be adapted into ‘Ala Afsar’, is
absent while trying to adapt even the simpler plays of Brecht. For instance, if we

consider ‘Mother Courage’ in which there are no historical characters and which
has been written to show the ravages of war and its effect on common folk, we find
that each episode of this epic-play is closely related to European history because
the whole play is set in the ‘Thirty years War’ from 1618-48. Naturally, for a
European audience the analogy between the ‘Thirty Years War’ and World War l &
ii is not difficult to establish. In fact the truth is that the audience while viewing the

horrors of the ‘Thirty Years War’ on the stage tend to visualise the horrors of the
wars waged in the 20th century.
Naturally, in this context, the first question faced by any actor, director or script-

writer is how to present Brecht’s plays on the indian stage ? Should only a Hindi
translation be staged ? or possibilities of an adaptation be considered ? If a mere
translation is to be staged then everything from costumes to stage-decor will have
to be as Brecht has specified in the original play. Not only this, but because drama

presents the ‘behaviour’ of certain characters in a certain given time and land
(space), there will always be a risk in as much as the action and behaviour being
presented on the stage may seem totally alien to the audience. And, the basic aim
of the play may thus he lost. This problem does not arise to this extent in fiction
because the narrative tends to fulfil or cover-up these cultural gaps. On the other
hand when we think of an adaptation of Brecht’s plays one wonders how can
concrete historical references be altered or adapted. ‘The Inspector General’ can

well become ‘Ala Afsar’ but can ‘Galileo’ become ‘Aryabhata’?

