Director’s Note
‘The Private Life of the Master Race’ or ‘Aatank Ke Saye’ written in the mid-thirties,
deals with the ‘fear and misery" inflicted on innocent people in the wake of Hitler’s
Nazi armies overrunning Europe. However, Brecht does not focus on the political

events leading to the rise of Nazi domination over Europe, rather this information is
incapsulated in the form of songs which intersperse the scenes.
The 17 scenes which constitute the play (of which we have selected 7) are

conceived of as unconnected vignettes from the daily life of a cross-section of the
people. Brecht foregrounds this daily life and sets out to examine, in terse and
simple terms, the changing relationship between human beings under severe
pressure. This pressure is seen less as a violent aggression of any physical kind this is not the story of bloody murders, tortures within concentration camps or

nightly visits by the Gestapo, but is a play located within the private homes of the
seemingly complacent middle-classes - in the bazaars, the courtrooms, the
prisons, during quiet Sunday lunches, while standing in a queue for ration or in a

bedroom. On the surface daily life continues normally, as it does even in times of
war. Brecht then proceeds to unearth what lies beneath this surface normalcy and
in each scene he shows how the fabric of daily existence is being ripped apart at
the seams by the atmosphere of terror which fills the air with unspoken demands
and pressures. in t'ne process we see the characters submitting to fear and, by
foregoing their rationality, finally becoming zombies or puppets who can easily be
manipulated.

Human relationships undergo a change in the process. So we see that the
relationship between neighbours is no longer ‘neighbourly’. The relationship
between husband and wife, parents and children, between honest personal
convictions and the demands of a Fascist state - all these relationships become
strained and change their complexion. Fear and suspicion of each other, a lack of

trust, dwindling faith in human ideals - a basic morality which binds people together
and allows them to behave with dignity and honesty - are shown to be lost - not just
lost, systematically eradicated.
In ‘Nyaya Ki Taalash’ we see how the Judge submits to political pressure, in ‘Ghar
Ka Bhedi’ how the Father submits to suspicion and in ‘Doctor Ki Biwi’ the Husband
to the idea that one race is superior to another. Thus in scene after scene we see

the so-called intellectuals - the Judge, the school teacher, the doctor, the political
activist, even the Communist - each in their own way forego their strength and
submit without questioning to the reign of terror, becoming paralized and in a
sense becoming pawns in the hands of Fascist forces. In this context the title ‘The
Private Life of the Master Race’ becomes both an ironic comment as well as a

