current political crisis. In fact a situation of such drastic dimensions as German
Nazism does not as yet exist here - but the fear is, that it might at any moment

escalate into such a one. In fact in the present adaptation of the play the attempt is

to mediate history through several layers and strands simultaneously - from Nazi
Germany whose presence in the production is not alluded to directly but whose
overtones are apparent, we move closer home and obliquely refer to events in
Punjab of the post-’84 period, to the Bath Yatra, the Bombay riots, the December
6th fall of Babri Masjid. These references remain undefined and become the

unspoken context within which the play is located. Since these events are so close
to us in time and crowd our daily cc nsciousness there is no need to stress them
because the connotations are quite clear. Neither are these events presented in

any chronological order - in fact we randomly move back and forth in time because the attempt is less to give a history lesson or make this into a docudrama, but rather, in the spirit of Brecht, to discover the changing relationships
between people and be able to view the overall situation with objectivity and
rationality.

History is transformed when it becomes theatre, its form and substance alters so
that it no longer requires of us to adhere to reality in a literal sense. Theatre only
needs to adhere to reality in so far as to make reality more real for us, through
whatever means. In that sense Brecht transcends the barriers of different cultures
and different times and speaks to us directly, begging our attention.
The simplicity, economy and terseness with which this tale is told is remarkable.

Some scenes are but a few lines. To be able to execute with a few strokes an
entire situation, relationships and predicament can only come from a playwright of
Brecht’s stature. Brecht arrives at the point he wishes to make so acutely and

restrains himself from adding any embellishments, either in the visuals or
language. Such spartan economy becomes a challenge for actors as they have so
little to play around with, and are compelled to discover the single right gesture or
attitude with which to render the overtones and undertones of this sparse but
I oad ed text.
A mal A Ilana

