ABOUT THE PIAY

Theyyarn, a traditional ritual torm ot North Kerala is the background at this play. In this

ritual dance the Dead souls ot heroes, as well as spirits of all denominations are evoked
with festivity. It is the story at a traditional theyyam pertormer, involved in a real I i te drama,
parallel to the drama he was preparing to enact.
Thus the plot is woven around the duality ot the situation and events. The play starts

with a village version at the Ramayana in a symbolic way. The actors are chosen tor the
characters ol’ Devta’ (Rama), ’Angkar’ (Lexman), ’Firangi’ (Ravana), lBalkalil (Sita) and

’Bepuran’ (Hanuman) Balkali (Kalibala) is abducted by Firangi (Ramanna) and taken to his
ship. Devta and ’Angkar’ are lost in the darkness at the situation. The plot takes a new turn
when a police man, intorms that the actor Ramanna, who pertormed as lFirangi’, killed a

big landlord and he according to the laws is a murderer. He asks everyone whether they
are interested in knowing the actual incident. With the consent of all the actors the incident
ot the murder at the land lord is enacted. This part at the story starts with the harvesting by
villagers in the land at the Jagirdar (a big land lord). Ramanna, an agriculturel labourer

and theyyam dancer loves Kalibala (the same artist who plays ’Baalkali’). The Jagirdar
tries to seduce Kalibala and Ramanna, with the help ot Kalibala kills the Jagirdar and
elopes with her.
The story again turns to its initial theme ot the village version oi the Ramayana, where
Bepuran (Hanuman) sets all in search at Balkali and attempts to rescue her. He steals
Firangi’s belt which is the source at his strength, and is thus able to beat Firangi to

death.Meanwhile, Kalibala’s lather ’Satguni’ is outraged by the incident and retaliates tor
the abduction of his daughter. Police man charges Rarnanna tor the murder ot the Jagirdar
according to the law at the land. Ramanna’s mother appears and argues that Ramanna
has not committed a crime, because the Jagirdar was an evil character. She denies that
Rarnanna is absconding after he killed the Jagirdar, as he is undergoing penance in

preparation at the theyyam oi Firangi and claims that he will return to the village tor the
pertormance. As Rarnanna returns tor the ritual, the two story lines merge. Still the irony is
not lost that the Firangi is deitied atter having committed an uniust act; but on the village
level, Ramana is killed tor avenging an act of injustice. As the two ditterent characters oi
the some play are enacted by the same actor, the iuxtaposition is underlined. The theyyam
dancer becomes the Theyyarn ot a living person also, and consequently there is a theyyam
at a theyyam, hence the title Theyya Theyyarn.

Tहैeyya T6eye!m

