- DIRECTOR’S NOTE‘ '

The twin story line of the play weaves together a contemporary theatre with the
popular ritual traditions of North Kerala, by turning it into an allegory of modern life. Two

characters performed by the same performer iuxtapose the nature of the value system and
question the very basis of it in the modern context.

The irony is dramatized by the transforming ability of the performer to the role and this
forms the very crux of the play. The villager first transforms into a performer by acts of
penance and then from performer into a character. The process of transformation and its
reversal are significant dynamics lying latent in the play, using the acting area as imagined

in the Natya Sastra concept of ’Mattavarani’. The mental process of the actor evolves into
the realm of the character at several poi nts. The vital act of transformation is an allegory of
the regional and deep rooted faith in traditions and rituals,

with its contemporary

relevance in the society.

On a secondary level, this process of transformation takes place in the mind of
the spectators. The spectator sees at once the villager/actor, actor/performer and
performer/character. The actor’s role in the process of transformation is to ultimately

facilitate the spectator’s mental transformation. The religious belief represented through
theatrical allegory not only resists urbanizing and westernizing rationality, but also any

meta theatrical self-consciousness on the part of the spectator. This hesitance, therefore,
becomes simply theatrical as well as social, religious and non-rational.
The chronological order of events is intentionally avoided. Clarity in the stories
interwoven in the text is achieved through the use of the chorus. No character exists

discretely. They all, both protagonists and antagonists, emerge from and return to the
chorus. The performers must move from one plot to the next and also take part in the
chorus. The members of the chorus also punctuate the action in their introductions, directly
to the audience (The inference of the multiple identities, we all assume in everyday life).

Theyya Tb(कुछ/८1m

