KAVALAM NARAYANA PANIKKAR

Born on 28th April, I 928 in KavaIam, Kerala.He is a

graduate Irom Kerala University and a Law graduate from
Madras University. He started writing poems Irom his school
days and soon became a popular lyricist and a poet. A breakthrough came when he was nominated as Secretary, Kerala
Sangeet Natak Academy where he got an opportunity to interact

with artists from all over the state and develop a deep insight into
the rich cultural heritage of Kerala. This ultimately saw him
entering the theatre world inspired by Folk and classical
traditions oI Kerala. He started his career as a playwright. His pIay ’Avanavan
Kadamba’, directed by the established film director Late. Shri G. Aravindan with a new
vision, re-estainsh i ng Natya shastra elements was a great success.
While dabbling with Sanskrit theatre, he also wrote and directed a number at plays
in Malayalam which include ’Koyma’, lPashugayatri’, lSooryasthanam’, lKarimkutty’,
’Arani’, Poranadi’, lKaIivesham’, ’KaIanetheeni’ and ’Theyyatheyyam’. Besides

’KaIidasa’s’ IAbhiinana sakuntaIam’ and ’Vikramorvasiyam’ his aIIinity remains with
Bhasa’s plays ’Karnabharam’, lUrubhangam’, ’Dootvakyam’. ’Pratima’,
lMadhyamavyayogam’, ’Swapna vasavadattam’, ’Charudatham’ etc.

In a career spanning over Iour decades, Sh ri Pan i kkar has given a new lease oI
Iite tor the age old Sanskrit drama traditions , imbibing IoIk and ritualistic elements tor
establishing a new idiom ot contemporary Indian theatre. Shri Panikkar has attracted a
large number of critics and scholars Irom India and abroad For his innovative style at
presentation. He has visited many countries including erstwhile U.S.S.R., Japan,U.K,
U.S.A, Greece, Poland, China, Singapore, Bangladesh, South Korea, ItaIy etc for

participating in theatre Festivals and conducting theatre workshops. His interaction with
Greek theatre in producing a combination of two great epics, ”IIIiad” and ”Ramayana”
was a Iusion of two ancient cultures at the world.
His contribution to contemporary Indian theatre has brought him many awards which
include the Sangeet Natak Academy Award, KaIidas samman, Nandikar National

Award, Critic CircIe oI India Award, KeraIa Sahitya Academy Award etc and Fellowship

of Kerala Sangeet Natak Academy. He is also a Fellow of Sangeet Natak Academy, New
Delhi. Presently he is the Vice Chairman oI Sangeet Natak Academy, New Delhi.

TIRE/a Tbeyyam

