A scene from Bawa itto.

It

Natya Samagam(1%cclaimed Dogri
& Punjabiplays enthra“! audience
Lalit Gupta

character ofmaking supreme sacriﬁce of life not only as warriors
but also to uphold cherished values. ३
r
Today's show of Bawa Jitto
stood out for its captivating visual design marked by a unique
fusion of native folk forms with
modern expressions of physical
theatre idiom. The ingenious
musical narrative of the life of

JAMMU, Sept 26: Acclaimed
modern plays of Dogri and
Punjabi languages were performed on third day of the ﬁveday Natya Samagama organized
by Sangeet Natak Akademy, New
Delhi, in collaboration with J&K
Cultural Academy, at the Abhinav
Theatre, here today.
The ﬁrst performance was folk hero by the onstage Gardis, '
Natrang's Bawa Jitto in Dogri. ' folk singers, to well choreoWritten by Ramnath Shashtri and graphed groupings and blockings
directed by Balwant 'I'hakur, the of agile actors, left an indelible
play considered as one of the mark on the audience. Vijay
high-water marks ofdevelopment Anand as Bawa Jitto, Sachita
of Jammu theatre in recent times, Dubey as Gauri, Madan Rangela
is based on the life of 16th centu- as Mehta, Anil Tickoo As Mehta's
ry Dogra folk hero Bawa Jitto, Lackey, Renu Sharrna, Rahul
who laid down his life to defend
Singh, gave good performances.
the values of honesty and justice.
The second production of the
The play, with more than 300
evening by Manch Rangrnanch,
performances since 1986, has
Amritsar, was Balwant Gargi's
been instrumental in stirring the
५ Punjabi play Kanak di Balli.
collective memory of new generations by reiterating the Dogra Directed by Kewal Dhaliwal, the
play revolves around story of a
young girl, her typical dreams of
ﬁnding true love, getting married
' and raising a family. But all this is
shattered when her drunkard
uncle, who she lives with, sells
offher ﬁeld. In the end, just like
the ripe wheat crop in her ﬁeld
that is sold to the highest bidder,
she too is sold off and commits '
suicide to escape a grim future.
The play with rustic dia—
logues, liberally spiced with

Punjabi idioms and maxims, was
conspicuous for its design wherein realism was interspersed with
poetic elements of music and
dance. Ramandeep Kour as

Taroo, Bachna as Jatinder Soni
and Jitnder Kour as Taba, gave
impressive performances.
The day-long folk performances by folk artistes of the state
included "Jattar" by Mohan Lal
and party, "Geetru" by Rumalo
Ram & Party from Ramnagar,
Chinjaan and Massadey.
Tomorrow three plays to be
staged will include Sartaqs, Purgi
drama, by a group from Leh, Raja
Vikramaditya (Swang) by Folk
Art

Academy,

Hisar,

and

‘ Abhigyan Shakuntlam by a group
from Ranchi.

