खी

DIRECTOR

He has successfully coordinated the presentation
of dramas and workshops in various centres of the
country. He has been actively given his services as a
theatre person in important seminars, conventions,
Boards and Advisory committees and worked as a

prominent participant in prime theatre festivals of the

cou ntry .
Prof. Shah has written full length plays like
Trishanku, Sheh-Ye-Maat and Yudhaman. He has also

adapted the celebrated novels Mitro Marjani and
Animal Farm into Hindi, which were highly appreciated.
He has translated and adapted theatre version of many
Indian and foreign dramas as well. He has also
contributed several articles on theatre in reputed Hindi

and English journals and periodicals.
He has been honoured on various occasions for
his outstanding career and contribution towards Indian
theatre. He has been awarded Madhya Pradesh Kala

Prof. B. M. S h ah

Parishad Puraskar (1973-74); Punjabi Kala Sangam
In the contemporary Indian theatre scene Prof. Brij
Puraskar (1976), Bhumika, Delhi (1983-84), Shobhana,
Mohan Shah is an established man. He is renowned
Delhi (1976-77), Central Sangeet Natak Akademi award

actor, director and dramatist. He has also long been
(1979-80), Sahitya Kala Parishad, Delhi (1988-89) and
associated with the revival of Parsi theatre.
UP. Sangeet Natak academy award (1988).
Prof. Shah was born and brought up in Nainital and
received his early education from CRST school. After

He has won the Best Playwright award in (1981-

obtaining his post-graduate degree from DAV College,

82) instituted by Sahitya Kala Parishad and honoured
by National School of Drama for his outstanding

he got admitted in the National School of Drama, in
contribution towards theatre and teaching. Besides, he
the year 1960. He specialised in the ﬁeld of theatre
is a recipient of All India Bharatendu Harishchandra
production. Soon after he was engaged in theatre,

cinema and doordarshan. Apart from being in the

Award by HP. (1992) and won the Kala Mandir, Gwalior
award (1987). In 1992 he was given warm civic

Government and Non-government organisations, he was
reception at his hometown Alrnora, Nainital. He has
the Director in the National School of Drama (1982-

been decorated with ‘Yash Bharati’ award (U B).
84), worked as a Director in the Little Theatre Group
of

After retirement from National School of

‘Dishantar,’ Delhi and Vice-Chairman of Parvatiya Kala

Drama he is presently working as a free-lance

Kendra, Delhi.

theatre person.

( l 9 7 2 -7 6 ) ,

Founder

Member

and

Director

