३ PLAYWRIGHT’ S NOTE

ॐ

One is not born, but becomes a woman.
— Simon de Beauvoir

Man-woman relationship is a very complex subject
and hence can not be understood completely. Some

scenes showed the tension generated by the legalillegal relationship, between men dressed up as

times efforts made to understand, further complicate

women, and their wives, children, elders and friends.

the situation. But at times it so happens that one
effort gives rise to a new endeavour. There are

Having pondered over this idea 1 sounded more like
a third rate sociologist than a playwright. I tore

factors like biological, psychological, hereditory,

these scenes and thought of making a new beginning.

traditonal, social, economical, geographical etc. that

Since my boyhood I had seen many Nautankies in

contribute to the man-woman relationaship. This

my small town Ambah. Two of my friends

topic has always been a challange for writers and

occasionaly took part in these Nautankies as a hobby.

artists.

We were well aware that like other folk arts, in

In my ﬁrst play Kriti-Vikriti a trial to emphasize

Nautanki also, female roles were played by good

, that rivalry is the external reason behind the man

and woman tension and my baised understanding

looking boys. This fact was in conﬁrmation with
my subject and l decided that through nautanki I

confirmed that further. In my later plays this

can tackle this concept.

relationship surfaces here and there but is never

The problem now occurred in the shape of

made the main subject of the play. This could be

remembering the tune and lines of the metres used

the reason why my later plays are thought to be

in nautanki. I contacted my theatre friends, librarians,

more meaningful.

and publishers in Delhi to get hold of some books

The text and the literal meanings, of the second half

book The Second Sex, struck my mind. It was

on nautanki plays but the effort was futile. Even
publishers like Dehati Pustak Bhandar did not have
books on Nautanki. After struggling a lot I found an
old friend of mine who had worked on Nautankies

during this time that I came across a news piece,

and with his help I got a book from Hathras.

that in South India there is this custom where once

Thereafter it took me no time to ﬁnish my play.

in a year for three days, men not only dress up as

In the beginning itself I named the play Than/cu

woman but also behave like them. This becomes

Baba Lochan Das the last sentence of the play,

the basis of my exploration into the man-woman
relationship, once again and hence this play.

thinking it will be changed later. The play will be

of the above quote ‘But becomes a woman' taken

from the English translation of Simon de Beauvoir's

In the ﬁrst scene of ﬁrst draft which I wrote, the

Nautanki wala Dilawar had no entry.The next two

called‘Nar-Nari. NS D organised the reading of NarNari in August'95. But if they now prefer the first
title, let it be so.

‘—Nag Bodas

