NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA

खी

REPERTORY COMPANY

The Repertory Company of the National School of

Yatra Theatre Festival in 1991 . It also put up a

Drama was formed on an experimental basis by

special exhibition, Rang Yatra, designed by Shri Bansi

Shri E. Alkazi, who played a major role in nurturing

Kaul. The work of the National School of Drama

and expanding the Company when he was Director

Repertory Company since its inception is depicted

of the School (1962-77). In the beginning, the
Company consisted of only four actors. It later

through photographs, models, jewellery, costumes,

expanded into a larger group of actors, musicians

and has travelled to Bombay, Pune, Goa, Bangalore.

and technicians, mainly graduates of the School.

Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Nasik as well.

etc. in this exhibition. It has been on view in Delhi

Initially, in 1964, the late 0m Shivpuri led the

In December-January 1992-93, the Repertory paid

Company and later in 1977, Shri Manohar Singh

homage to Mohan Rakesh, the celebrated playwright,

was appointed the first Chief of the Company. Over

on his 20th death armiverscry by organising a major

the years the Repertory has produced a variety of

festival ofall his plays and dramatic adaptations ofhis

plays ranging from stylised musicals to realistic

short stories.

contemporary works of Indian drama to translations
and adaptations of foreign language plays. Eminent
directors from within the country and abroad have
worked with the Company in the past years.

In December 1993, the Repertory participated
in the Vishwa Hindi Sarnrnelan at Mauritius with
performances of three of Mohan Rakesh's plays:

Apart from performing in Delhi, the Company

Aashad Ka Ek Din, Aadhe-Adhure and Lehron

Ke Rajhans.

tours extensively all over India and has also made

In 1994, the Company started a new activity-

successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal,

presentation of fringe performances cosisting of

and Mauritius.

dramatic readings of world classic as well as new

As part of its Silver Jubilee celebrations, the
Company toured extensively and organised the Rang

plays, enactment of poetry and other experiments in
the form, content and presentation of theatre.

Acting chief of Repertory company

J.N. Kaushal

Business Manager

T.R. Bakshi

Stage Manager

B.S. Palil

Sound Technician

S.N. Dasgupta

Lighting Incharge

Radheshya'rn Pandcy

Wardrobe Incharge

Gursharan Kaur

Workshop Incharge

Abdul Hakim

Accounts

Shriprakash Shanna

PA to Chief

C.D. 'I‘ewari

Box Office

Ramesh Athwal
S.R. Yadav
Ujin Tirkey

Acting Director National School of Drama

Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj

