P R E S I D E NT ' S N OT E
Established in 1934. the Shakespeare Society. St. Stephen's college, is to plans this
year a distinction earned by few. if any. of our country's theatre groups. This history is
not unbroken our records show no productions against the years 1936-37. 1942— 43.
1१146- 48 and 1949—50. The significance of these gaps ought to be self evident 1 They
mark the connections of college to the evolving history of our country in general.
Significantly. again. our play for this year. 'The Tempest' was last produced in 1937
the play's thematic and structural connections with colonialsirn. Empire greens, violence and bondage are too well known to bear generalised repetition. I think our director's spectacular experiment with Shakespeares script ought to well dramatise the col 1 i~
sions and collusions of dominance and subservience in pairs like father /child, master/
servant. or ruler/ subject. The dramatic projection of charismatic authority within this
framework points to every sort of discrepancy in between almost all vastnesses of design and the pettiness of their realisation.
As in the production of Macbeth and hear. last year and the year before, we have had
our share of problems. Money has been painfully scarce. space and time to rehearse
have not always been available Equipment for lighting and designing music have been
hard to come by when needed. Under the circumstances, the Society's members have
done wonders. At the same time I would like to appeal to Stephanians in the audience to
help if they can with our plans to modernise the lights room and greenroorn and also to
furnish our office and create our own library keeping this end in View. We would welcome any archival material and memorabilia from old students and others associated
with the Society.
I take this opportunity to thank our director Zuliekha Allana for working so well with
the play under sometimes very trying conditions. My thanks to our Carpenters.
Naseeruddin ji. who has succeeded in executing complex stage design within short
deadlines. The Executive Council, the Working Committee, the cast and crew have

gone out of their way to make this performance take its ﬁnal shape. Their sincerity and
hard work have been noteworthy and commendable. In particular I would like to thank
the Secretary. Sunando Sen, the Joint Secertary and Assistant Director. Vikrarn Shahan i
and our Finance Co-ordinator Rahul Asthana. My special thanks to the Principal, Dr.
Wilson. the Bursar. Dr. Bajaj and the Dean, Dr. Tarachand, who have all extended their
full 00- operations.

दुष्ट…

.

g

I"
I

रा:"

QTY? 2 ९७१ Li
l

,

,r

,

.S 1३८3

.

,7

I

(9

Maw» Muitfo‘num

Ashi sh Roy.

