“THE TEMPEST' ON STAGE
Ofthe last few plays of Shakespeare- Pericles, Cymbeline, The Tempest and A Win—
ter's Tale— TheTempest. his last play, is the most frequently performed. Its stage history,
though, is a chequered one. The ﬁrst known performance took place on Halloweene
in l 61 l . before King James and his court. It was performed at the Globe and then deemed
good enough to be performed as part of the festivites celebrating the marriage of James'
daughter. PrincessElizabeth in 1612/13. After Shakespeare's death, the frequency of the
performances dwindlel. Even then, the editors of the First Folio gave it importance in
their printed volume.

In 1667, John Dryden and Sir William Devenant produced a spectacular restoration
version of the play for the newly reopened theatre. The original, however, was considered
to be lacking in its dramarz's personae. "They invented a sister for Caliban and a girlfriend
for Ariel and gave Miranda a counterpart in the form of a young man who has never seen
a woman. The result- " a vile mixture", as Charles Lamb called it. Shadwell's version in

1674 neglected the verse and exploited the tricks—gimmicky and visual effects that the
machinery of the new theatre could offer with "Ariel ﬂying from the sun towards the Pit",
"a ternpestuous sea in continual agitation", " thunder and lightning "and a" banqueting
table. attached by spirits which rose and disappeared to order".
The nineteenth century too appreciated the play for its spectacle value and found in
it an opportunity for lavish theatrical display. Charles Kean wrote proudly of his 1867
production at the Princess Theatre: '.' The scenic appliances of the play are of a more
extensive and complicated nature than has ever been attempted in any theatre in Europe,
requiring the aid of one hundred and ﬁfty operatives nightly, who unseen by the audience
are engaged in working the machinery and carrying out the various effects!" It was only in
the twentieth century that directors returned to the original text.

"The Tempest" has also provided inspiration for Tchaikovsky's "Fantasy Overture"
in 1873. A number of ballet versions have also been performed. The play was last per'
formed in St. Stephen's College in 1937.
Kiran Chandra

THE PLAY
Twelve years ago. Prospero. the Duke of Milan. was usurped by his brother Antonio, with the help of
Alonso. King of Naples. and the King's brother Sebastian. Cast adrift in a boat with his baby daughter
Miranda. Prospero landed on an island where, by the use of his magic art, he ruled over the savage Caliban
and the spirit Ariel. Now he uses his powers to raise a storm which will shipwreck his enemies and work his
re x' er rg e .

On the island. the shipwrecked travellers are seperated: the King of Naples searches for his son
Ferdinand. although believing him drowned; Sebastian plots to kill his brother and usurp the crown; the
drunken butler. Stephano and the j ester, Trinculo are persuaded by Caliban to kill Prospero. Ferdinand meets
Miranda and they fall in love. Prespero sets heavy tasks to test Ferdinand and then presents the young
couple with a bethrothal masque celebrating chastity and the blessings of marriage.
With his enemies ﬁnally brought together before him, Prospero forgives them. He grants Ariel his
freedom and prepares to leave the island.

