National School of Drama

Repertory Company

The Repertory Company of the Natonal School of Drama is a
performing group of players and technicians who have
graduated from the School in the past years. Formed in
1964-65 with just four actors, the Company was started on an

experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi, the Director of the
School till the late 1970's and a dynamic theatre personality

Ka Takia, Mukhya Mantri, Mahabhoj, Kabhi Na Choden Khet,

Mitro Marja ni, Apne Apne Ajnabi and Nirmal Verma's Two
Short Stories.
In the past years its repertoire has also included foreign

plays in translations and adaptations. Some examples:

who had a major hand in nurturing and expanding the

Brecht's Caucasian Chalk Circle, Three Penny Opera and

Company over the years.

में
Puntila and His man Matti; Shakespeare's Othello and
Illacbeth; Moliere's School for Wives; Osborne's Look back in
anger; Bond's the Fool; Chechov's Uncle Vanya and Cherry

In 1977, when the Company acquired the status of National
Repertory, Shri Manohar Singh took over as its Chief and
carried its activities across the nation. Since the early 19705

the Company has produced a rich variety of plays that range
from stylised musicals to realistic contemporary works. A few
examples: Tughlaq, Andha Yug, Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed,
Panchvan Savar, Rasgandharua, Surya Ki Antim Kiran Se
Surya Ki Pehli Kiran Tak, Charpai, Sainyan Bhaye Kotwal,
Adhe Adhure, Skandgupt, Sandhya Chhaya, Jasma Odan,
Mattavilas, Kath Ki Gadi, Virasat, Mashriqui Hoar, Main
Ladli Maina Teri, Pagla Ghoda, Sharvilak, Quid-E-Hayat.
The Repertory has worked with a variety of directors from

orchard, Six Characters in search ofAn author; Istvan

Orkeny's ’ 'otek; Rostand's Cyrano de Bergarc, Goldoni's The
Servant of Two Masters; Saroyan's The Cave Dwellers;
Bernard, Shaw's Pygmalion; Gorky's Dushman, Kaika's The
Trial.
The Company is based in New Delhi, where it gives regular
performances. It has a Studio Theatre and a beautiful OpenAir—Theatre. The latter is one of the best of its kind, situated
in natural surroundings readily adaptable to different
environments and thus enriching a different style of

productions which have been staged here.

India and abroad. Besides using the best available scripts the
Company has also successfully dramatised and produced a few
novels and short stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekant, Begum

One of the remarkable contributions of the Company's

activities which has given a new dimension and opened a new

