[ 4 1
So his family starved.

The child ' wept bitterly for food.

Phuljan

was restless

and the agony was too great for Rahim. He had to allow Phuljan and Bashir to go to the
kitchen. But both of them were refused food by Hakimuddin who explained that
Rahim’s family could not have food from there as it was meant only for the

destitutes,

beggers and orphans. Sentimental and desperate, Rahim’s feelings ran high and in a ﬁt
of despair, he divorced Phuljan to baffle the designs of Hakimuddin.
But the divorce was too much for them. The young innocent simple village housewife's heart was broken. She was separated not only from the man whom she loved and
relied upon but also from her little son. Before, however, Rahim left for city with his
son, he assured Phuljan that he would return her child to her

after the difﬁcult period

was over.

And with that hope Phuljan

lived—lived to get back her son

and

also

perhaps to be back again to her house where they could live happily But left alone—all alone in the yillage she had no other alternative but to became a maid servant in
Hakim’s house who was waiting for this opportunity as it was another blow to Rahim’s
prestige and self respect. He could not allow bashir to go to Phuljan and live at
Hakimuddin’s house as his maid's son. By and by the difficult period passed. CrOpS were
harvested and Rahim returned to his village. His friends gathered round him and
arranged for the marriage of Phuljan with a Fakir, who agreed to divorce her the next-day.
So Rahim could remarry Phuljan and get back his happy home once again. Every thing
was settled. The rays of hope glimmered in the distant horizon. But again Hakimuddin
posing as an interpreter of muslim law stood in the way, .... ..There was a great

stir .... ..

the feelings ran high .... ..the entire village stood solidly behind Rahim to have the marriage
performed—but in that dramatic moment, the most un-expected things happened....... . .

Was Rahim’s dream fulﬁlled-“could the agonised and tormented souls and broken
hearts be united once again .... ..?

--—-—--

