CV uch organizations as the Theatre Centre of Calcutta are the
‘3 hope of theatre in the free world. A dedicated group
talented workers engaged in recreating the great classics of
the past, in performing the best plays of our time, in giving a
hearing to new playwrights and in experimenting with new
forms and techniques will leave an indelible mark on the
cultural pattern of its community. A vital and dynamic theatre
must be a committed theatre. I do not mean that it should be
a platform for political or social propaganda or that it should be
concerned with moral uplift any more than it should devote its

energies to the promulgation of some theatrical “ism”. It must
believe in the dignity of man and the inviolability of the human
spirit. ' Signiﬁcant drama must be more than a record of some
aspect of our existence. It must be concerned with those forces
and values which motivate us to action and reaction and shape
our final destiny.

CA M PTON BELL
University of Denver,
Denver, Colorado,

It must result not only in stimulation but

illumination.

A committed theatre does not mean that entertainment is
lacking. Audiences are still entertained by Oedipus Rex,

Hamlet, Saint Joan and Mourning becomes Electra. Sophocles,
Shakespeare, Shaw and O’neill, like all great artists, were
concerned with man’s attempt to fulﬁl his chosen destiny, with
the afﬁrmation of the power of the human will and spirit. A

I PEEP THROUGH
M Y LITTLE E YES
theatre worker’s time is too precious to be wasted on plays
which are simply diverting, amusing or sensational. Audiences
demanding that sort of fare can ﬁnd it elsewhere. Those who
come to the Theatre Centre will ﬁnd a group of artists, aware of
their responsibilities and determined to make the theatre a

meeting place for free minds dedicated to the glory of Man.
These are the important artists of the Twentieth Century.
. m

uw/Vc/Vr/ A \IVV\ VVV vrv r ~ »

'८.

.

.7/_,.

W. दृ ,7 -. v c, v “MK/W V vv\ A . V \s ५ A

Space ,kihdly donated ' by
KEERAN IRON AND STEEL WORKS
94 Lower Chitpur Road. Calcutta.

U. S. A.

