we have had in our midst from time to time great personalities
in the ﬁeld of drama and literature. Sri Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, Sm.
Kamala Devi Chattopadhyaya, Smt. Rukmini Devi Arundale, Sri Prithviraj Kapoor, Sri Uday Shankar, Prof. N. K. Siddhanta, Sri Satyajit Ray
are some of the names we have the proud pleasure to mention.
LECTURES, DISCUSSIONS, Etc—Besides _ above, lectures, dis-

cussions; musical programmes, symposiums and experimental plays from
time to time form the next feature of our activities. .

I From 1961, the Centre started production of regular plays in the line of professional
stages in the city holding performances on Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays ( double shows f)
and produced Aar Habena Deri, Alik Babu, Aghatan Ajo Chate, Sainik, Ora Thake Odhare,
Nishachar, Pureoja Porena, Lebedeff, Bedehi, Rajanigandha, Kencho Khurte Saap, Parajita.
, Nayak, Kshudhita Pashan and the current one is Athacha Sanjukta.

In 1961, the Centre also started a Drama School, ﬁrst of its kind in Calcutta, for impart—
ing both practical and theoretical training to the students in all branches of play production.
Project plays are organised by the students and successful students are awarded certiﬁcates,
after proper written examinations. It also affords opportunities to the students by including.
the deserving ones in the Centre’s own team. Two sessions are held every year and the
syllabus has the greatest microscopic quality which is at par with the aims and objectives of the
Centre, viz. to promote and develop better understanding with persons interested. The Centre.
provides a well conversant group of lecturers and teachers of eminence in the respective
ﬁelds.

In 1964, the Centre faced a grim set back as its auditorium stage and all equipments
were gutted by ﬁre. But during the year that followed, i.e. 1965, it could rebuild and renovate
the same by its own resources and grants obtained from SANGEET NATAK AKADEMI for
the purpose.

LIBRARY—The Centre has set up a Library and reading room from where Indian and
foreign books and magazines on the dramatic art are available.
THEATRE CENTRE has kept before it the motto with which it started that is “May
its powers extend to—day to the ends

of the earth and awaken all men to the truth of their-

common destiny.”
०

.

.

.

.

.

.

च

l

०

r च

Common destiny is the inspiration which is the source ot all art and literature. I rue:
.
of
h
trut
the
to
men
of
ing
ken
awa
the
for
ks
wor
re,
ratu
lite
true
of
nch
bra
r
othe
any
drama, as
this common destiny.

'\ /\ ’\ Iशा /\/\,A

Space kindly donated by
KANUBHAI ENGINEERS PRIVATE LTD.
3 MANGOE LANE, CALCUT'I‘A— 1 .
V v W _ V ७ ५ A vav ५.

W V ~\~—~ N

