ON THE STAGE

'I‘arun Roy
Born in 1928 at Calcutta. Even from boyhood had keen interest in theatre. As a
student at college directed number of plays and
also appeared in important roles. The plays
‘Bondage and Freedom’ & ‘Harmony’, which
he wrote in his student-life, were staged at the
ﬁrst Inter—Collegiate Drama in the Calcutta
University. ‘Light that shone in Darkness’-——
based on the life and teachings of Lord Buddhafollowed and was staged at New Empire before
a distinguished audience including Prime
Minister Nehru with commendable success.
In 1948 he founded Jatiya Natya Parishad—
a club theatre——and produced with success one
after another his own plays—‘Rhythm of Music’,

‘RUpkatha’, ‘In the kingdom of Learned Jackal’
His reputation,
& ‘Problem’ ( in Hindi ).
however, reached its climax after his well—
conceived dramatisation and presentation of
'
Tagore’s ‘Hungry Stone’.
During 1952-53 he was away in England to

equip himself with the latest
theatre art. At that time he
famous Tagore plays—‘Sacriﬁce’
at the Festival of International

techniques of
produced two
& ‘Post office’
Plays at' Irving

Theatre of W'est End, London, with high
commendation.
On his return, he cherised the idea of
establishing an intimate theatre to launch
drama movement, which took shape in the form
of Theatre Centre—an afﬁliated body to the

International Theatre Institute of UNESCO.
Since then he achieved success after success

not only as an actor-producer but as a playwright of outstanding merit. Under the pennarne of Dhananjoy Bairagi, Sri Roy has
written a number of plays, and to name some
of them are—‘Dhritarashtra’, ‘Rupoli Chand’,
‘Ek Pashla Bristi’, ‘Aar Habena Deri’,

‘Nishachar’, ‘Rajanigandha’, ‘Parajita Nayak’,
‘Athacha Sanjukta’.
His debut in the professional theatre in 1959
at Rungmahal Theatre, where he appeared as
playwright—producer-actor by presenting ‘Ek
lﬂutho Akash’ and ‘Ek Peyala Coffee’, was
remarkable. Thereafter, Sri Roy produced his
own plays—‘Aar Habena Deri’ and ‘Rajanigandha’

at Theatre

Centre

and they were

highly acclaimed by the press and discrimina—
ting play — goers . Another feather was added to
his cap when he ably drarnatised and brilliantly
produced Sri Dilip Kumar Roy’s ‘Aghatan Ajo
Ghate’ at Theatre Centre. Afterwards, he not
only produced his own plays—‘Sainik’, ‘Lebe—
deff’,

‘Nishachar’,

‘Agantuk’,

‘Mukhosher

Aarale’, etc. in different professional theatres
in town but also of other distinguished playwrights. Sri Roy’s latest socio—political plays—‘Parajita Nayak’, and ‘Athacha Sanjukta’, per~
formed recently at Theatre Centre, have drawn '

spontaneous applause from the press and audie'
nce as well.
Sri Roy, though well known to the theatre
world, has also established himself as a novelist

to the readers of Bengali literature.
been honoured with ‘Girish Award’

He has
for his

outstanding contributions in the ﬁeld of drama.

Space donation by a Well-wisher
WV W \I\« ५.८

‘Sainik’,

-श्या ८ / \1 ‘mA \_, \1\.—\

