Dipanwita Roy

of the plays.

A cousin of Sri Dilip Kumar Roy. From
childhood had a keen interest in music and
d ance . She, as a child artist, appeared in many
She
musical plays—especially as a dancer.
had her training in dance under Sarbasri Kelu
Nair, Atamba Singh, Mani Bardhan and

‘Parajita

As the heroine in the plays

Nayak’, & ‘Athacha

Sanjukta’, she

excelled her past glories and was warmly prai—
sed by the press and discriminating play-goers.
In personal life, she is the wife of Sri Tarun
Roy.

Debraj Roy
Manishankar.

As a student of B. Sc. ( Hons )

at Scottish Church College, she had the privilege of representing her college in the Inter—
Collegiate Drama in 1947 and appeared in the
role of Maya in the play. ‘Bandhan O Mukti’
directed by Sri Tarun Roy. Later, she joined
Jatiya Natya Parishad and made appearances
with success in the plays—“Hungry Stone' &
‘Kumar Sambhabam’.
Sm. Roy is one of the founders of Theatre
Centre and has been in its Executive Committee.
In the plays produced by Mukhosh she appeared in the leading female roles, viz. Shanta in
‘Dhritarashtra’ and Sabitri in ‘Rupoli Chand’,
and was responsible for their dance composi—
tions.
While in Europe in 1958, she had had spe—
cialised lessons in stage make-up and voice
training in London.
On her return back to Calcutta,

she joined

Rungmahal Theatre in 1959 and appeared as
Chitra in ‘Ek Peyala Coffee’. Her ﬁne acting
as Asha Chaudhury in the play ‘Rajanigandha’
received high appreciation from the press and
public. Ever since she appeared in the leading
roles in the plays produced and directed by Sri
Tarun Roy at different professional theatres in
town. Besides her acting assignments, she did
ably compose some dance sequences in some

_

r, 7

गेल्या _, V v- s शा V V VV v ५ श्या.क्या N WWW,‘

Born in Calcutta in the year 1954. Environs

helped him develop a keen interest in theatre
at an early age. Although appeared on stage
in some amateur productions, his debut in
theatre world through the play ‘Kencho Khurte
Saap’ at Theatre Centre was marked with great
promise .

A successfully acted role in ‘Mukho5her Aarale’ followed. His talent was soon
recognised by no less a personality than Satyajit
Ray who gave him ( Debraj ) an assignment in
his ﬁlm ‘Pratidwandi’. Soon after he was signed
up by another internationally famed director-

producer Mrinal Sen for his film ‘Calcutta 71'.
Recognition followed and Debraj has the distinction of being chosen by eminent directors

like Dinen Gupta, Bibhuti Laha. Sunil Banerjee
& Tapan Sinha to portray the principal
characters in their ﬁlms. His recent stage
performances in the plays ‘Rajanigandha’,
‘Athacha Sanjukta’ & ‘Visarjan’—-—all directed
by Tarun Roy—have been laudable. Besides,
Debraj’s gifted voice has been familiar with
listeners of plays broadcast by A.I.R.
As

a student of the

Bharati

University, Debraj has taken .up ‘Drama’ as his
special subject.

In personal life, he is

the

worthy Son Sri Tarun Roy 8: Srimati Dipanwita
Roy.

Wक्याश्या V

VWWV W

Space donation by a Well-wisher
W, W m -सौ x

Rabindra

