’Jﬂ’Sionhall to host week-long celebrationst ३
MSSubbulak smi’s 100th birth anniversary
TIMES NEWS NETWORK

इ

Organized jointly by the cultu- mil,” says Shankar.
'
ral centrein Mumbaiand the Sange
On September 16, the day of the
et Natak Akademi,theevent will'see singer’s 100th birth anniversary, 100
singing stalwartslike “the queen of ‘ Vedic scholars will perform a Vish:
thumri”Girija Devi,KishoriAmon— wa Shanti havan—an event where
kar, Aruna Sairam, Teejan Bai, Vis- Vidyasagar Rao, governor of Maha-

r11rue fans of MS Subbulakshmi

mayknow that she loved[;1118er coﬁee, French perfume,jasmine ﬂowers and the colour blue.

They may also know that she never
ate ice cream and that her favourite
raga was Shankarabaranam. But
did theyknow that the ﬁrstsong the
legendaryTamilsingereversangin '
publicwas in Marathi?
_
Though history and Wikipedia
will point to the Tamil song ‘Mara—
katha vadivurn’—which was the

- among MS Subbulakshmi’s many

connections to Maharashtra that
have prompted the cultural centre

to celebrate the late singer’s cente.
naryyear in Mumbainext week.

vernor of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, will be present. On the fol-

३ CentenaryAward.
'
'
Onthe ground ﬂoorof the hall, a
' lifesize statueof the singer will gre
et you while her portraits in MS
Blue—the colour named after her
—'will smile ﬁom walls. For the occasion, the hallhas also setup a permanent photo exhibition. Here, asa
screenplays the legend’s songs, you

hang in her ﬁrst-ever public perfor;
veals V Shankar, president of Sri
Shanmukhananda Fine. Arts and
Sangeetha sabha. This raretrivia is

rashtra and ESL Narasimhan, go

३ ५ . la Bali receive the Subbulakshmi

Bharat Raina awardee’s ﬁrst recorded song—“MS sang a Marathi ab
mance ata functionin Madurai,” re

haka Hari and dancers Yamini

Krishnamurihyand Vyjayanthima-

not onlydiscover details such asthe
fact that the singer’s father called
her ‘Rajathippa’ (princess darling)
To mark the legend’s 100th birth but also that the legend has funded
anniversary, Sion’s Shanmukha— ’ many institutions in Mumbai inclu-

A life-size statue of the singer has

been installed at Shanmukhananda

nandahall will host a week-longpro—
gramme, from September 12 to 18,
spanning performances by eminent
artistes to awardsfor young talent.

lowing days, tributes to the singer
will arrive in the form of a 100member dance ballet led by danseuse

V'ani Ganapathiwho will performto
MS’ssongs in tenlanguages and violonist A Kanyakumari who would
lead a loo-member violin group.
During the celebrations,percussionist Vikku Vinayakram will be
given an award meant to recognise

music teachers. “MS Subbulaksh—
mi, Who was never a teacher except
to her daughters, did not lend her

name to anything in her lifetime.
, dingthe South IndianEducation 80- ' But she made an exception for this
ciety High School. A key highlight
though is a letterto the singer bythe
Mahatma. “He has signed it in Ta-

award,” says Shankar, referring to
the M S Subbulakshmi Sangeetha

Pracharya Award instituted in 2002:

