P R E FA C E
Though ‘i’avnika has had a rather late christening
(having been registered as a regular Theatre Group in
Dec. 1995) and is being launched today, the 17th February,
l996, it has already come of age. ltsjourney into the wonder—

At various stages of our theatrical experience, we
have had the good fortune to have worked in association
with and under the guidance of some renowned theatrists
like Krishan Dwivedi, Harpal and Neena Tiwana, Kumarl/arma

ful realms of Theatre started over quarter of a century ago
and has, when looked into the retrospect, been extremely event-

and Balraj Pandit. Some of our fellow artists like Rana Jang

ful, interesting and satisfying.
Nearly 100 shows of some eminent plays such as
“Panchhi Aise Aate Hain”, “Pagla Ghora”, “Beewion Ka
Madarsa”, “Andhon Ka Haathi”, “Kauwa Chalaa Hans Ki Chaal”
and the like have been staged all over the country besides
“Christmas Ca rol” an English play, staged in the United States
of America.

Majority of these shows have been staged (with ama"
teur artists largely drawn from the Defence Services/families) to raise funds for philanthrOpic organisations viz the ‘Army
Wives Welfare Association’ and the ‘lndian Red Cross Society’

Bahadur and Arvind Pandey, have really made it big in the
world of stage through the National 5chool of Drama or
otherwise.
Our inspiration in dedicating our efforts to the cause
of theatre has all these yea rs been (and is always going to
be) the will to preserve and propagate threatre amongst
those of our countrymen who, baffled with the mind—boggling dazzle of the celluloid world and caught in the more
recent onslaught of the Satellite Television, have been
gradually weened away from the great traditions of Indian
Theatre.
With this aim in view our efforts shall be directed to

and have- through the funds so raised—improved, in their own

holding of Theatre Camps/Workshops for the young ones,

humble way, the lot of our suffering and unfortunate brothren.

organising street plays particularly in our relatively rural
areas, providing fiscal support to the needy/budding art-

Many shows of these plays have, also been sponsored
by the North Zone Cultural Centre Patiala, the Cultural Deptts.
of various State Govts. and Union Territories and several in—
ternational Clubs like the ‘Lions’, the ‘Kotary’, the ‘Unesco’
and the ‘Giants’ and we gratefully acknowledge the patron—
age of all our sponsors.

ists, creating Theatre consciousness and audience in places
where this art has almost become extinct and perform,
perform and perform.

50 bless us Lord Natraj l
—5 ewa k N ayya r

