DI R ECT0 R | AI.
. While deciding on the suitability of a script for production, l have invariably been guided by the considerations of its theme (and the relevance thereof to the contempOrary social scene), its entertainment value (for l ﬁrmly believe that good theatre must always entertain even when in-

tending to convey a message) and its theatrical potentialities.

That primarily is why i love doing Moliere’s plays for their
universal themes, their brilliant wit, their never—failing humour
and above all their unparallelled quality of stageability. And
that precisely is also the reason for my choosing Sharad

drama, by the use of symbolism. And then the whole play
had to be forrnated accordingly.
I introduced five chairs— painted like chessboards
with playing card motifs on four and a question mark on
the fifth— one to be carried by each of the blind, not only
to Create and establish different locales but also to con—
vey the theme of the play that power and politics is in no
way a better/different game than any other played any—
where in the world.
Parveen dressed all the blind alike (with the only ex—

ception of the hues of their dupattas-symbolising their

Joshi’s great musical satire “Andhon Ka Haathi”.

party affiliations) to convey that they all belong to that

By using the oft-quoted parable of four blind men trying
to a describe an elephant in their own individual way, none

class of ordinary human beings which, inspite of its pristine innocence, honesty and devotion, is soon corrupted by

succeeding to perceive it in totality, Joshi has in this play,

the taste of power, only to prove Machiavelli right.

probed, with admirable dexterity, into the greatest catastro-

Joshi has included quite a few songs in the script
probably to serve as interludes between various situations

phe of our times viz. the failure of our leadership to identify/
seize the real malaise of the society and to earnestly grapple
with it.

But'doing “Andhon Ka Haathi” has not been easy though.

The greatest problem, like that of the Sutradhar in the play,
was to bring the “Haathi” on the stage. The feat was, how—

which tend to build up, as the play progresses. x a level of
considerable gravity. l have composed the music fo» these
songs with a view not only to entertain but alri- to main—
tain the thematic unity of the play through its music.
50 wish you a very happy viewing.

ever, accomplished, kudos to the great Pandits of modern
—5ewa k N ayyar

