A B OU T
T H E ५ P L AYW R I G H T; . .

A B OU T
TH E DIRECTOR. . . _

S H AR A D J O S H I

S EWA K N AYYA R

Born in Uljain in 1931, Sharad Joshi had his edu-

Born in Delhi in 1946, Sewak Nayyar had his
education in Punjab. He started his career in
1969 as a lecturer in English and taught in
Govt. College, Malerkotla till 1976 when he

cation in many places in Madhya Pradesh due
'“ to the frequent transfers of his father.

He started early as a journalist, served

i JOll’lCd the lndian Defence Estates Service.
in All India Radio and many other Govt offices
before finally settling down as a freelance writer,

He had his exposure to the stage

specialising in the field of writing satires.
6piritualism, politics, religion, social life, morality,

rather young and soon made his mark as an actor and a

beaurocracy, you name the sphere of life and you find Joshis
penerating eye and absolutely fearless pen ruthlessly exposing
the contradictions prevalent there.

tinued his passion for Theatre with examplary devotion and

His famous satirical works like ‘Kaha Kinare Baith’, ‘Kisi
Bahane', ‘Parikrama’, ‘Talism’, ‘Pichhle Dinon’ etc. make the most
interesting reading and leave you flabbergasted and compelled
to think.
‘Andhon Ka Haathi’ (alongwith ‘Ek Tha Gadha Urf
Alladad’) is his most celebrated play. Written in an extremely
simple idiom, it not only bares the contemporary political scene

but also provides a deep insight into the most complex laby—
rinths' of ‘Kajneeti’.
ln ‘Andhon Ka Haathi’, Joshi’s primary concern is with
the plight of the common man being reduced to the position of a
mere puppet in the hands of those in power. And all this is going
on in the name of public good l
—Kicha Nayyar
Theatrist

Director. Even afterjoining the Central Services, he has con—
ded ication.

Due to frequent transfers in service since 1976, his
theatrical exploits have seen many parts of the country (and
abroad) always winning him a wide acclaim from the viewers

as well as the media.
With the passage of time, he has exhibited a versatility of sorts, doing Theatre, composing music for his plays,
writing poetry in Urdu, short stories in Hindi and adapting
English one-act plays in Hindustani.
With his wife Parveen designing costumes for his plays,

his daughter Richa and son Kishabha showing promises of
good actors, one can expect from Nayya r a lot of contribution
in the field of Theatre, in the days to come.

—Prof. Ma n gat 5 0 od
Theatri st

‘

