'

\ ° .— S o

\- 3
\ है f ५ I 2 ० 1-1

Z“ 19 बैठे

Words of Welcome

च्चिहिंठत्काड्डूड्डेस्था 1990धदृत्का1द्रड्डऊं b .
त्माक्याक्लश्चा/ण्डदुष्ठाटत्यंक्कीस्ताशां L13 ठे L
7:. aurora-ham. 4w“. 4%.

The Japan Foundation has been
working with Theatre Artists from Asia to

produce theatrical works since the early

axis—#159. Hibn‘o, ऊँल्लीध्यानैहूँवीहँहृ.

1990’s. This time around, our project has
brought together a number of energetic
directors, artists and musicians from

ﬂies. हैंड्डेक्लअंस्थाख्यादृक्रङ्कछ. mama

India, Iran and Uzbekistan in an endeavor

mm‘ijasvaaarr. क्याटाक्या

to create an anthology ofthree pieces with
a common theme. The theme we chose

र्द-दृष्टट्याछधाट्टध्याद्धू newsman)
ठ“आकाश्याट ष्कक्षाक्लरष्टिक्याझ्यान्नत्काछं
ism-time "ख्यास्थाष्टाख्याङ्क/किंहंठ
as. रैशाऊंटछध्यड्डेदृछऊं. कृझाच्छीदृक्याष्टा
' ष्टिक्रष्टाक्लट्वेंट्वेंस्थाठध्या/ड्डिठाध्याक्याॐ
axxaexayowu w u -क्याल्य u

baa/mm. स्साकृहुंझाद्गीर्ट्सह्माणाड्डट्वें
हृटकीश्वेर्दछंक्लव्रष्टाठन्नच्चाग्रं'. Hyman):

for the occasion was, ‘Women’ in Greek

73*ag'edy. As we contemplate the women
who lived those tragic tales, in a time and
place far removed from us, we become

convinced that their stories are actually

taking place here and now in our own
vacillating age.
The story chosen by Uzebekistan’s
Ovlyakuli Khojakuli is that of Medea, who
takes revenge on her traitorous husband
by taking the lives of their two children,
Iran’s Mohammad Aghebati uses as his
theme the story of Jocaste, the mother of

tr-Trn‘a‘rms‘sa/m‘ou. दैनुटश्चाफ्लॉक्त
क्वछंष्टत्काऊंदड्डक्षाश्चाआँ. क्यश्याऊंटछछ
lea/dimer ।लिद्वाआर८४रि७ज1धिव

Oedipus who unwittingly becomes joined
with her son in wedlock. The renowned

ग्वांन्धीऊँहृक्तीमृकीप्रिष्टाष्टीध्दक्लकैदँहुँर्दनुचैछिखं

the theme chosen by Abilash Pillai of
India, who‘ skillfully overlays onto this a
modern tale of global conﬂict. Through

:t’. %#L%‘2L®1'F¥'19836LT. ﬁf/n“

Helen, who was carried off to Troy is

their respective works, the members of

-क्वेंटफाठेरू PE. Aﬁﬂwﬁﬁ, हँर्थि. am.

this project, have brought to the stage and

he. क्या. ख्याष्टिस्थाध्याक्शाड्डेढछराष्ठ
mil-zeta. amumwasugm
क्तिद्वाक्वीक्यात्माटा weal—ru—

turned the spotlight on: death, human

स्कास्वा. व्याख्या. anagram-5x]:
- र. क्कक्लाणाश्चक्शाहंठदुष्टष्टध्याङ्कणा

dignity, anguish, destruction, war, and the

gods themselves, along with a number of
issues to do with the contemporary world.
This program was ﬁrstperformed
in New Delhi, India in January ofthis year.

Since then it has been further developed
and has taken the form, which we shall see

नुप्रीन्हेंहूँर्दद्धू [701b-)\°77r—E>0“°7—‘)-71

it will be moving on to join the Seoul

'z-i-mvwgmsﬁéठेर्खढ

:oammwu ~31; शाआक्याक्को
न्धरष्टाग्रं'नंवेंत्रक्र ।-८य१सेकांल९धा-ष्ट्र९९८२

"झाख्याश्याख्याद्रास्थाड्डे L < चिंह ०२१3८ a)
mummmw‘m

here in Tokyo. Following this performance

'
20O7फै 1 OH

Performing Arts Festival in Korea.
We would like to extend our deep

respect to all of the artists who took part
in this ambitious project as well as our
gratitude to the many people who lent
their energies to the creative process.

October 2007
The Japan Foundation

ख्याहृठेदेंरेंर्देहिंड्डड्डी:

