Medea in Greek mythology is the daughter of King of Colchis (modern Georgia), who have to suffer an adverse fortune. She is made one
of the best known characters in the Greek tragedy by Euripides’ Medea (431 B.C.) and has kept inspiring many literary ﬁgures as Seneca, Corneille
and others. Euripides depicts a mythic ﬁgure of Medea as a woman who carries out acts of revenge for her husband Jason’s betrayal. She is sometimes
called a monster because of her awesome decision to kill their two sons. What we should note is that she is a ‘foreigner’ to ancient Greeks, ‘the Other’

to the Greek community. In this sense, she is dangerously alluring ﬁguration of the otherness, with which ‘we’ are one-sidedly and self-centeredly
fascinated. In ancient Greece, or in contemporary Japan, the problem of course is that the transaction should work not only one-sidedly but mutually.
The tragedy becomes inevitable when ‘we’ forget the fact that ‘the others’ also have personality and emotion. For this production from Uzbekistan,
Ovlyakuli Khojakuli draws a simple yet theatrically powerful tragic picture of Medea, utilizing three Medea texts by Euripides, Seneca, Fransua—Benua
Gofman, and a contemporary Russian playwright, Ludmila Razumovskaya.
'I‘adashi Uchino

Medea in relation to World Harmony
.
OvlyakuliKhodiakuli

.

Up until now, I have not once written about my own theatrical
work. This is because whatever I would want to say is already contained in the
works themselves; the works are my message to my audience. Would we wish
to rob the. audience of their chance to decipher the message for themselves
by having the directors. talking on and on about it, thus depriving them of a
bit of the fun of going to the theatre? This is part of the reason why I create
works for the theatre. By doing so, I have a way to communicate with the
outside world and also to gain an awareness of myselfwhile continuing in my

isolated existence.
Media is a. play that deals with magic and sorcery in which the

dominant character shows many faces. She is at once: a spiritual medium, a
sorceress, and a woman. And at the same time, she is a dutiful wife and mother
of her children. She is also someone who has abandoned her homeland and
has been rejected by society and still further she is a victim who meekly
accepts her part in the sacriﬁce while being one who passes judgment on

others and who can see the future.

.

r

holding lifelong grudges, and ofloving passionately.
Through having male actors play female roles, I am hoping to bring
the audience to the essence of the mysterious relationship between men and
women and if I eventually succeed, it will be a fortunate thing. My goal is to
explore the entire spectrum of underlying erotic feeling hidden in the text
and in this way, give the play more complexity. I feel that I can obtain a greater
control through the exploitation of the various: phases of the hermaphrodite
quality ofthe character. And maybe, through this, we will even be able to hear
an echo ofthe works ofthe classical theatre or Shakespeare or the traditional
theatres ofthe East.
One critic has referred to my theatre as ‘Homeless 'I‘heatre’.
Naturally, this is a metaphor withimplications on a large scale, which includes
_ both the beautiful and the sad. In actuality, I am creating a number ofworks
using a small theatre named ‘Eski Masjid’ located in the small town ofKharsi.
Often, however, I will invite staff as well as cast from other theatre companies
based in places like: Kirghizistan, Tadjikistan, and Kazakhistan. This is
because, fOr me, theatreis a worldwide endeavor.

,

That the emotions of a woman, who dreams of an ideal family life

and a relationship of ideal love between man and woman, have the potential
to become a destructive force is one of the paradoxes of-tragedy. It is an
enigma that cannot be solved, the mystery of the female. Medea, amid the

betrayal of Jason and the plotting of Creon, envisions the spark, which will
_ eventually become a conﬂagration of universal proportions. She perceives an
undermining ofthe sacred bonds of marriage and of the family.
In her awareness of reality, Medea Sees marriages being arranged

.by men, disgraceful deals being negotiated, which seem to portend the end

Ovlyakuli Khoiakuli
Born in Turkmenistan, Khojakuli studied at the Tashkent State Theatre
Institute (currently the Tashkent State Art Institute after M. Uygur). After he worked
in Turkmenistan, he moved to Uzbekistan in 1994. Since then, he has worked with
many major theatre groups in Tashkent, as well as with the small independent
group, Eski Masjid, in the local town of Kharshi. He is one of the few directors who
incorporate Central Asian traditions in modern ways, such as the aesthetics ofSuﬁsm
and the traditional storytelling to create pieces that overflow with primary beauty.
His productions have attracted international attention, such as Raksu S’amo (“Sky

Dance”) based on Seven Tourists by Alisher Navoi, the great Central Asian poet of

ofher own World vision ofpeace and harmony. The fact that She ties her own

the 15th century (performed in the Festival des theatres de l’est de l’Europe, Nancy,
2005, and में other countries); Shakespeare's King Lear‘ (Third Theatre Olympics in

personal Well being to'the harmony and peace ofthe world is what makes. her

Moscow, 2001, and Festival Binari, Italy, 2002); Language of the Bimb- based on

a great personage, larger than life and thus a tragic ﬁgure.
‘ Medea is not, a villain. Her killing her own children is an act of '

Cayenne? qftlteBird: (a mystical poem by the 12 th century Persian poet Farid udDin Attar) and Language oft/1e Bird:by A. Navoi (2nd Bishkek International Theatre

Festival, 2006), etc. He has also produced the amazing film, Oedipus, with Turkmen
sacriﬁce. It is a tragic attempt on her part to keep mankind from falling into ‘ 4 perfOrmers.
'
the abyss of immorality and discord.
God created both man and woman. At that time he endowed them
.
with all of the virtues, vices and passions. What that implies is that both men

and women are capable of murder, of bringing children into the world, of

