Artyom Kim (Composer)
Born in 1976 near Tashkent, Uzbekistan,

Displayed a remarkable talent since his studies
at the State Conservatoire of Uzbekistan, many
of his compositions have been performed in
international music festivals in and out of the
country, including Dny’ts (1997), Graham (1997),
Inearnatus (1997), The Page from. the Album
(1998), Etude for Prepared Guitar (1999), and

Anecdotesﬁom Put/2,5723 Lﬂ (2000). He has also
been highly acclaimed in theater music, including

Abror Yuldashev (Jason) - ~2
Born in Tashkent and majored in
direction at TSAI. After graduating, Mr. Yuldashev
joined the Youth Theatre of Uzbekistan, where he

played many important roles including Emperor
Altoum in Karlo Cocci’s Princess Yurana'ot, and
General in Leo Tolstoy’s K/zolst'omen etc. He is

presently teaching at TSAI, and also appears in
many plays with the Ilkhom Theater, one of the
most exciting theatre groups in Central Asia.

Ill/eff}; Mgr/2t by the Mossovet Theatre, Moscow,

Anvar Kartaev (oul) -~-3

Imitation: oft/2e Koran by the Ilkhom Theatre in

Also a native of Tashkent and studied at
TSAI with a major of acting. Afterwards, he joined
the Youth Theatre of Uzbekistan, and has played

Uzbekistan, etc. The works with Khojakuli include

Salome by O. Wilde (1988), Blood [Wedding by C.
Lorca (2003), etc.
Mariya Soshina (Costume designer)
Also born in Tashkent. Graduated from
the National Institute of Art and Design named
afterK. Behzodawith a major in scenography. As a
scenic and costume designer, she has worked with
many theatre companies, including the Ilkhom
Theatre, National Academic Drama Theatre of

Uzbekistan, National Academic Drama Theatre of
Kyrgyzstan, etc., as well as for films. She has also
collaborated with Khojakuli in many of his works,
ncluding Raksu S’amo, Oedipus, Salome, Language

tlze Built, etc. She was given the Best Scenic
Award in “Art-Ordo — The International Theatre
‘ tival” which was held in the exciting theatre
, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, in 2006, for Khojakuli’s

important roles in works like: Princess Yurana’ot,
K/zols'tomer, 721er etc. Kartaev also performs
these works at major international festivals in
Russia almost every year. Kartaeve is an actor in

the “High Category” (which is the highest rank in
the Uzbek theatre system).
Malika lbrgimova (lniga) …4
Born in Tashkent. After completing her
studies at TSAI, she joined the Youth Theatre of
Uzbekistan, where she played the lead roles in

almost all the productions, including Sonya in
Uncle Vanya by A. Chekhov, Daya in Wise Natan by
Lessing, and others. Ibragimova was designated as
the National Artist by the Ministry of Culture in
1987, and has been one of the strongest actresses

in Uzbekistan.

age oft/2e Bim’x.
_ a lskandarova (Choreographer)
A native of Tashkent, after studying
the Faculty of Choreography at Music
cus College in Tashkent and drama at
‘kent State Art Institute Named After M.
I gyur (Afterwards TSAI), she began performing

Abdigani Ruzievmreon) ---5
Born in Kashkadar’yo, in the southern
part of Uzbekistan. After studying music drama
at TSAI, he joined the Muloqat Theatre Studio,

one of the most experimental theatre groups in
Uzbekistan in those days. He is presently working
at USMT, where he has played many major roles

at the Youth Theatre of Uzbekistan, appearing

in Uzbekian national dramas, such as Mas/nub,

in many important roles, including: Adelma in

Nostalgia (fBobuI; etc. He has also performed
in Language oft/2e Birds as well as Ra/tsu S’amo
by Khojakuli, traveling with them to many
international festivals.

Pruzcess Yuraudot by Karlo Cocci, and Buraya
in K/zolrtomer by Leo Tolstoy,. Currently, she is

choreographing and performing in many of the
Theatre's works, in and out of the country.

Asilbek Eshonnov (Glance) ---6
Muzaffarion Hamidov (Medea) - - - 1
Born in Andijan, eastern part of
Uzbekistan. After studying at TSAI with a major
in music drama, he joined the Uzbek State Music

Theatre Named After Mukumiy (Afterwards
USMT) and has performed many important roles.
He is an adept performer of magom, the traditional
singing style of Uzbekistan. His appearances in
Khojakuli’s works include Lison—ut-tayir and
[ta/mu S’amo, which he has performed at numerous
international festivals.

Born in Andijan. After graduating
from TSAI with a major of music drama, he

joined the USMT where he performed in various
productions. He has also appeared in many
traditional Azerbaijan comedy dramas.

