गै Helen is a ‘peerless beauty’ in Greek mythology and her father is known to be Zeus. She becomes the wife of Menelaus, King of Sparta. She
is the cause of the ten-year-long Trojan War, as she has been abducted to Troy by Paris, Prince of Troy. Helen’s fate, however, is told quite differently
from Greek tragedies, Greek epics to recent Hollywood ﬁlms; some say she returns to Sparta after the fall of Troy, some others say she never has been
to Troy at all, yet others say she escapes Troy with Paris after the war. Her personal character has been also depicted quite differently, but all agree that
she is a ‘peerless beauty.’ It is obviously a wishful anachronism to romantically understand the cause ofthe Trojan War as men’s long-lasting rivalry over
Helen, as, already according to Homer’s Cypria, the war is caused by Zeus’ cunning plot, who wants to do away with the overpopulation of the region.
Abilash Pillai of India, by making Helen’s monologue as central device for his production, reinterprets Helen as a figuration of radical exteriority to
the homosocial Greek ‘democratic’ community, basing its stability upon the institution of slavery. Abilash beautiquy and poignantly raises issues of
community and violence, letting the performance freely go back and forth in time, while centering his attention on the ﬁgure ofwoman as a site of the
otherness.
'I‘adashi Uchino

An OII Fairy Tale In a Vldeo Play Statlon -

Abhilash Pillai

Abhilasll Pillai
'
_.
.
'
Recently an Arabian channel telecasted the American troops’

Born in Kerala in South India, Pillai studied at the National School of
Drama (NSD) in New Delhi and at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA)
in London, and is a major directorial force in India. His works draw on a wide

invdlvement in a Memorial Service held in Tikrit, birthplace of Saddam. The
show was quite disturbing. Tikrit is signiﬁcant, it rekindled human memory

and stood testimony to the World that this entire war was about terror, Of
course ‘they’ can say, “There Was a link‘ between Osama and Saddam and

array of materials ranging frOm the classical to the modern, but all of them are
presented in a contemporary aesthetic style. His major productions include Sahetam,
which incorporated the formal beauty of classical Sanskrit drama in innovative ways
(Japan, 2001); the Greek tragedy Prometheus Bound; bland ofBlaod, which made

therefore we attacked. The proof is this: the 9/11 Memorial Service was held
in Tikrit”. ' …
१ 7
१
में
V This ‘missing link’ between Iraq and the war on terror is like _a fairy

bold, use of images of various conflicts in South Asia (Germany, 2003, and Japan,

. tale, look— small, ﬂighty‘, almost transparent and nonexistent. Shortly after
3 9/11, .the Pentagon caught this fairy and slashed in a cage for the entire world
.to see. .‘Like the vEmperOr’s new,clothes, anyone Who miSsed this enigmatic
creature was relegated as Enemy , of' Freedom, Saddam ‘Sympathizer and

2004), a work based on the classical Sanskrit play Shahurztara with Russian actors
(Moscow, 2004), and the former South Asia project of the Japan Foundation.

Horror QfHorrensf; - r _ ३. i पृ ,

' . , क्वें ८- _ '

I ‘- .

<

.

८

.

I ,iI'hosefmho: viewed, reallyjthoughtiithey ‘could’ see it. Strangely

the fairy:thxgxedismaller ८and paler theburning scrutiny .omeilli'ons of

curiouseyes.so:८1ष्णा३३३1८1३1०३८1ड़८3shaddeeded!afertrefssmade
OEtheAtoughe'st
s, and others were assigned with

bricks ,prdtect‘fa‘

fresheneyv "tor"

३ , '

dne"'f0 ० रुश्चिड्डओंड़ेहदेएँबि र्द्धन्नबंएँक्योंहैओ mayaJQrmay

' not,Jhaye existe 1311 it"didﬁ’ V _ ट्वेंदृट i" h' fortress),selffwas; there With the

७०३३३1३३.-1१३दृड्डेड्ड८1३51८णे८३-८
idea lay:Station. .. हृ
'

“'hic‘li १1यनि1श1य०ई
५
३''

2004); and Mdmg'ht's Children, based on the novel by Salman Rushdie (Bonn, May
2006). Pillai has also been involved in many international collaborations, including
a rendition of a section of the Mahabharata titled Kama with Korean actors (Beijing,

