Creative

Staff and

Cast

Maniushree Kulkarni

Harish Khanna (Helen 1)-~-1
Born in Rajasthan, northwest India,

(Clytemnestra, Nurse) - - -4

Graduate in acting from the National School of
Drama (NSD after this), he completed his MA
in performance and voice studies at the Central

Born in Gujarat. After graduating from
NSD with a specialization in acting, she appeared

School of Speech and Drama, London.

One of

including Anuradha Kapur. Her major roles

the best stage actors in India, he has shown his
presence in many important plays including 7726
‘AiztzgonePny'ecl (2003) and C/zoa’el’ao WizleAdmi
(2005) directed by Anuradha Kapur, [Memories of

include [Vig/zt Song, Nig/zt (ffanuaiy 16th, ALLY/Zan
kaEA‘ Din, Anlmpector Cal/r, etc. She has also done

Legend, the last intercultural collaboration of the
Japan Foundation, etc.

in

the works of eminent theatre

directors,

production work including costumes, lighting
design, stage management etc. in many plays. She
is also appearing in TV. drama series and ﬁlms
and has recently joined as an Acting Instructor for
NSD Extension Programme.

Jhilmil Hazarika (Helen 2)---2
Born in Assam, northeast India. After

graduating from NSD with a specialization in
acting, she joined the NSD Repertory Company,
where she acted in many plays and played lead
roles, some of which are Raaste, Indra Serb/9a,
Romeo and Juliet, B/zook/z Aag Hal, Biz/{‘2' [ti/mas,
Sudan/ion etc. Jhilmil works in all three mediums

namely theatre, television and cinema regularly.
Recently she performed Memorable Equinox a
one women show produced by British Council.
Presently, she is an acting instructor in NSD’s
Extension Programme and practices serious
theatre in Delhi and Assam.

Suiith Shanker
(Orestes 1, Music composer) - - -5

Born in Kerala, south India.
He
received training at Sopanam, a theatre group
in Kerala known for its modern use of the
traditional martial arts and performing arts, led
by the prominent director, Kavalam Narayana
Panikker and performed in The mepes’t, YZe
Hoij PVomen, etc. After three years in Sopanam,

he studied acting at NSD. He is a script writer of
this production.

Sankar Venkateswara n

Mohammed Kuniu Noushad

(Paris. Music composer, Mizhav drumming) - "6
Born in Kerala, Trained in south Indian

(Zeus, Agamemnon)- - भी
Born in Kerala, Graduated from Calicut

percussions from childhood. Graduated from
Calicut University’s School of Drama in theatre

University’s School of Drama and NSD in New
Delhi, after working at the NSD Repertory
Company as a professional actor, he completed
the Theatre ' ‘raining and Research Programme
in Singapore. Presently, he is a freelance theatre
and movie actor and acting trainer in the NSD
Extension Programme. He has been involved
in various collaboration projects with different
countries like Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong,

theatre companies across India and abroad as an
actor and music composer. Recently completed
Theatre Training and Research Programme in
Singapore, where he received intensive trainings
in traditional Asian performance forms as well
as in Stanislaviskian and post-Stanislaviskian
methodologies of acting. His latest work was
directing a play Quick Deal/z by Richard Murphet

' ‘aiwan, Nepal and Canada.

for Theatre Roots and Wings, his own group.

direction, after which he worked in various

