नु'र्टस्थिद्धू दुड्डूऱमृ'द्रऊँपिंहुँकाद्देदष्टर्ट्सगृदृऊँव्रिहकुंदृकँह्नड्डदयाँक्लकें
ऊँटव्रइंन्धाष्टाटेमू aaewmaaarawettwca

Ritz), ﬁJEE'EA. amaze—tater;
हैंर्प्ररड्डहुँद्विहेर्घगृहृचाणाड्डेहंटेरिहूँक्तिनुरूँहँच्चाछा3८७३० 7%
(mylimbc:§a§ebawcétai%ultﬁatﬂm:ﬁﬁ
ililZL, nﬁétghtwkéﬁéhm\MWiE’iEbff'é'.

aeamamuwmaaas«jetsam. W530)
Zara]eiaotﬂétiataa»0)bemo
wwwe‘ava- 1८०54 Esta (“wad ८३९` 1111
कुटेठेतृआँस्थाख्याट्वेंद्विफुक्लऊँकाच्छादृक्या-द्रटेस्ताकिंच्चा९
(we. are ﬁrrci‘lﬁjﬂé‘rft". are". “rte
आँष्ठ६3मू८५ टट'मृन्हेंक्यात्यंकिं we. टट'क्लकुसिंड्डडे
manta; aroma, च्चा'एंष्टीङ्कक्याक्तहेंक्तिनुह
हूँच्छाटर्तिथींटटेख्याढेक्वाक्नॉहृरू द्राठेक्याच्चान्ननु'ग्रैवेंडेऊँक्लिंश्चि
हूँ reams: नुहुँर्नीक्या'ड्डिशा/टेऊँहृ'ग्रब्रप्रठनुटेदृ. an
:8»: Eim%®<“é:ﬁ')’rw7<lz छिंख्मीक्याश्चिछडा 75३
फुद्देड्डडेर्शगृठर्दडेङ्कटीरुच्छद्धू ड्डूड्डूक्तष्टाक्लग्वांच्चेऊँप्रेहुंशांकुंछे
at 5E®Iif<ct§fchofvéo म्नहँऊंद्धगुहुँच्छे'ख्याझागुबुहुँ
"ठेकृछंश्चान्नर्टीद्रहृर्द्धदृष्टाकुँहैद्धू ﬁliﬁkL’CLﬁﬂﬁkL’Ci/Eif;

he, emerge Hfiftt. im’éL. rams?
boweiarﬁazaeuwts;tts7:, ग्रेड्डह्रऊँयाऊँहुँद्देद्धि
हैंनुड्डिसृ'टप्रेहुँथैच्चाज्जाहैट्टरेंहुँद्धृस्वीहिं EL. tEEéL. ब्सि

sensuality; %L1%0)cxva\<:ot~f%l:£1
u. र्द्धघ्र/ट्ठेचिंडेठेद्धद्रनुहेवृक्यादृठटेद्र४ ठंत्माटेछंठाक्याड्डटेष्ण

E

A[२1२01अँ spiel 199.13 Surddew पृ {1113.11 "४ T

Jndej quBJDUV

dLlJ

uaAaupl

हँडेष्टिऊँदृड्डद्धख्तीच्छाग्र'दृहेहिंष्टास्थाटरू
६श्या3०ष्टाठे35रेक्लीहेगांडेर्यश्लीठड्डूद्धू Mm:
टश्याष्टाहैंत्काड्डेहुंदृरु'कृत्यावंतेंक्रहुँक्योंक्ताहृरंठश्यायू 4y
57—1):.—Ft“i)5, “Silasﬁsmw—va—rob
C. ड्डव्रस्तिक्केहृष्ट्र'टर्ग'ट्वेदृदृड्डेन्हगृकूँक्तिर्प्रघ्र-श्रक्लैकैठेर्तद्रदृठेएँरंख्यारे
प्रेएँरिष्टछमूनुष्णष्टाऊंग्रैस्टदुहृहृदृच्छ५ मृदृष्टाच्चाऊष्ठाप्राक्रड़े
३० च्छान्धाऊँम्नवेंण्डकैऱचिंत्न’ञ्चद्रुहछछश्लीत्माछाद्वा Esta
ﬁaﬁia/v—ﬂ—ymotuzxﬁtﬂsEta/sitter
KI)< ( महींकृहोती"- श्चिनु 0')) U x स्याह)औ) ट) ० गु has to ष्टाईहृ ‘ ३
7.; o 7": हैंठेदेंऊँ J: आस्थाएँ… 1३३९'०५९० (मुर्ति 0‘") H हृ)३ t c:

Abhilash Pillai’s Helen from India works
as an image teetering on the faultlines of the past
and the present, where the present means the
contemporary the current and the absolute here
and now. Apprehending the here and now means
recognizing for one thing the arbitrary violence
of today’s world. Excavation to death, quarrying
the body, bleeding dry its remains, this is the
topography on which the politics of oil and the
clash of civilizations is staged; here Helen lies
ravaged and sick to death. Bloated sometimes
and wasted at another, her life is reckoned
retrospectively through symptoms; she has
been supplicant, submissive, incensed, seductive
tempting, and repulsive; she has loved, wrought
vengeance, and has been forgiving simultaneously
as she has veered through life. And about her, as if
on a loudspeaker, empire has continued to portray
itself as safeguarding civilization.
Suturing these three sections or instead,
marking an itinerary through these parts, are
the interludes in the performance. Like classical
interludes they separate performance from
scene change through song, but like a modern
chorus they commentate on the performance as
५ well. Their text is part lyrical lullaby and part

inventory (of household chores) that quotidian
routines necessarily notch up; by putting these
two different modes of speech and song together
they attempt to connect the “then and there” of
the ancient world with the chere and now’ of our
disordered times.

Jot. दैच्चीष्ठाऊंठंरिष्टीएँस्था'ष्टक्याऊँ Keith .
Anuradha Kapur
7:B0)1$trﬁsi£$9tﬁiixﬁatt0)“é>. टट”ड्डूक्ताहँच्चाछश्र्व ‘
One of India's
25Z l: है'iii/7k ठ0)’C‘Zb Zn०

foremost theatre directors.
'With her incisive views on gender and her numerous

collaborations in other genres such» as video art, she
has assumed a leadership role in the world of theatre
in Southern Asia. Major works include Smm’ari:

7"ब्र 5 5१६73 7—»
4yl~°é>fti¥ETZ>iEr§Hﬁ<Zo ﬁlthy‘lya“—ﬁ9$lt.¢é.
6ft7—t7;E‘le5}$i‘t0)25:ﬁv—yayex $79“?
wilfUﬁIJﬁé’aE-Elré. रिक्ल'स्वाद्धू ऊँरु'किंडेख्ताहुँदृहेब्रटैश्रेश्व
कृ…स्थाद्विट्वेंड्डेत्माठेड़'श्यागिंहैंग्रक्याध्याच्छाश्या-ब्लट्वेध्या-ष्टाकुंद्देहुंहें
क्लीर्धष्ण':ष्ठिअब्र३'2-……क्लिंड्डेहें८नुड्डेध्याल्लेन्दीक्षा५ wit-fate

A22 Actor Prepares, which portrays the traditional
Gujarat actor Jaishankar Sundari, who lived his life
as a woman; Umrao, the life story of the idolized,

nineteenth-century courtesan: Antigone Project
(2003, Berlin); C/wde Pan [Vale Adi/1i (based on Hiner
Muller’s Centaurus, Bonn in 2006) and others. She
has also participated in the Asian Art Festival of 2000

with an adaptation of Singaporean Kuo Pao Runs play.

1r31aaaamaaaathieeiau जो: WA?th ५ Haw

Lao/1'21. She is currently the Director of the National

3°ﬁ~~7°r2917tit20035ﬂ “\WUV), NHL—£15

practical advice was a great support for the members

School of Drama (NSD) in Delhi. Her thoughtful and

—0)IEJ‘/10”)ﬁzﬁheiést:ttﬁnancial(200633. ८1१
war; rinses, 2000र्वइ३-णास्वीनुकिंहुर्द'पिंईदृरें६7ग्र7-7स्वादुछक्या/रुश्यान्टारू ध्याणिदृ…ध्या)शां-/१र्णभ्रशांश्चि[हैं
)LJ टेख्या..1:द्देड्डेहृड्डख्वा:० Lari; क्या…ष्टानुडेड्डेहाड्डेशा
Vlsﬁiéi'ho‘ﬁlfxMai—km. fur—t; हिंटडेहैड़ेप्लाहुं
woaaaznsamnsmilitia; Maul—rox'ﬁime
4111431,

of this project. She was also responsible for directing
the interludes.

