utttoa—v—Putatwﬂrm.
arellﬂMjafeomamvﬂi-c. mega/awe
eﬁuttamﬁikéima. ड्डनुड्डिष्णहुंद्धाऊँनु
प्लादृटाप्नछदृष्टीङ्कन्धिहूँश्चदृख्ताम्भी० [हुँत्रिख्यानंक्याच्चीयू

छाछकुंद्देठेयाँ हुटीद्रेप्याज्जाहुंहैंहृष्टीदृ ---- ~~ﬁﬁam;t«
णानंस्तारु "635८० श्र्वदृद्वाद्धनुहृष्टाह्रडेहेट्ठी'छेष्ण
wagons, F2r74s0)ti:1r74l<7)7"5, it.
प्लाद्वाद्रहाँहुँहुँर्यगाठदृ, (Willi. assasife‘eiﬂlzs
k. र्द्धडेचेफुमूहूँझाटेध्दछदृक्लिंहँब्वहैंन्दीहृक्ल क्लिंर्वेहँष्ट्रद्वा'हुँ

as. क्षीट्टष्टटद्रकैर्प्र]९मू०न्ट……हँश्याब्जेग्राध्या/श्याप्रेकृर्द्ध
watchman
Be. tam. ऊँड्डेत्काकंन्दि
टाडछेत्का)०3स्काडाडस्टइज्जान्नश्चछदृ'दृन्नऊँमू९ names;
{HIJHHEWOTO अंहँत्यिणदृणाहृष्टाक्लिंठेदद्धू list
96$, émi—-—7‘:L\’Ct\ti. [कीहैंमैंहृर्दनु--न्नर्दनुछ
seam. F2r74s0)tinr74l<7)73iye. च्चाकुँद्रक्कोंकें
हूँदृलेईनुड्सद्देक्लिंरैन्हींयेंछैहृक्ल र्मआंएँख्वाएँहे/प्लीहुंकिं WEE
The byword of our age is security.
Cutting across all social strata and institutions,
from the public (nation—states) to the private
47‘ झउड्डे५ ऊँ2": Lर क्या t: 7: at: L ३0‘) F Z? हूँ0') it?it J 75? .
(people’s homes) one hears people talking about
प ३ ३ security. Or to put it another way, the world is

[EL com; शिंदृड्डक्याड्डीरि] दृ'कुँठ्ठेदृहेष्टानुखँ'ख्या)

चैप 1

स्थिएँ च्चोंद्रल्वाष्टद्विहैंद्रनुष्टाट्वेंवृहड्डाझद्रुदृस्ताछर्वऊँहंरंटटह्रख्या.

ill कै L’C L ‘ Z:J: ‘3 7‘5.

‘7 now filled with the sense of fear; the fear that
international peace, the current standard ofliving,
and/or our personal value system may be lost or
व्रद्धाहुंश्याहँहँक्शाद्रस्साफै ।रतासुयसे१/०गुज/"-तीगुप्र/२2]७९3"हूँते
destroyed. By definition, fear is irrational; “I am
छेक्लिंर्णा:आझाच्चाकिंटेदृहेर्प्रश्याचिंवृहेंख्यानुख्याहैंदृक्ती
afraid because I am afraid.” Fear tends to afflict
the strong rather than the weak, the winners
viva, हुँश्योनुटेर्द्धद्रदृहुंश्योंटामृष्टाछाऊँग्लैष्ठा Moo/L
rather than the losers. When it goes past a certain . ३ v दैश्याऊँदैग्रैमूणाड्डच्चीइ ज्जादृटाऊंदंड्डाष्ट्रद्धू Emits.
८ limit, it erupts as irrational violence. Otherwise, ’ '

t. र्निड्सठिगृनुन्हेंदृन्तीठष्टाऊँद्धृदृणाट्याहेठाआह्न'दँङ्गहुँदटहेहें
ध्यापां/ठक्ष्यश्चादृड्डस्कापैठेश्यद्धू, ख्या'ख्याद्देड्डक्वाटेम्भीगेंर्द्धड्डएँ
ti. क्लिंर्टकैटा५उँर्द्धर्वडेब्धि’किंणाहैंक्लहृहँयांठाहुँणाद्धू
।मठे"रोंथ९४८१"र्ति१८प्रक्र]नहुँ१वा/९कृ९रा१हैंजि१जि१नी a
चंर्देशांश्चिक्तिशांहुँहृहँलीऊँनुट'हैंद्वा ३८९९ 'छाँटकिटिछेदृ'हच्छ

- of the community. If there is no outside, then the

3 .IE तैcl

rig/saws“. ड्डचिंष्टवेंहँणाच्चादुटेरु रेंद्रदृद्देक्लिंक्याद्रु'स्कृटव्र:

it manifests in everyday life as subtle, small bits
३ of— not necessarily physical — violence. Violence is
_ usually directed from the inside toward the outside
community goes out of its way to fabricate one.
“I am afraid because I am afraid,” means that it is
useless to appeal to reason. We humans have lived
through these ages of fear again and again, and
we seem to have been thrown into another one,

without having learned any lesson from the past.
I am writing this not only because the
texts of the Creek Tragedies used in meormz'ng
lVomen have been telling us, for a long, long time

which the actual practice of theatre, or even of
art in general, is presently situated. For it is true

that, all contemporary art practice seems to be
preoccupied with a sense of security. In order
to be accepted, artists say to themselves: “do not
provoke, keep to pre-established norms”. Those

who tell people (the louder the better), that there
is nothing to worry about, are likely to be highly
praised. Theatre, as a form, which operates in a
communal space, always has the potential to be a

ruse to exorcise people’s fear. The deplorable thing
is that at the moment, theatre has degenerated
into being nothing more than that. I am not only
speaking about Japan: the same applies in the
United States, especially after 9.11.

Iपृष्ठe P91,

[9-11]द्वाकिंष्टात्र'क्याच्चीष्टाडेड्डिक्लिंछिटेनु Emmi;
9am स्मदृड्डहबिकेंद्देह्नहुँहुंहेंनु श्यादुदृछद्धा ४6०

about the issues of violence and communities
through the irrational force of fear. That much
is obvious, but what I am more interested in is
posing as a problem some social contexts in

0111113
. I1

a. 1ज़दृ>च्चिकंक्वें5८श्यानुटेटेहुं०खाज्वठठाशाट्वेऊंद्धूदृरू'०

guauwA/l ﬁuguuoﬂad matA 3M pInqu MOH

7१)ठ०वेजिई९हुँ-९तियत्से९७-------थप्र९र क्ताड्डख्याहँध्याह्माड्डे
कंड्डीच्चेष्ठद्यठंटक्तित्माह्रड्डदृष्णट्वेश्ली was. क्लित्कादृ
ष्टाहुंत्काहूँश्चिटड्डेकांड्डू ष्टिक्रप्लां/क्राहूँहेंहँक्लीदृड्डष्टनुत्सा

3c- 955V

an. [श्नड्डेड्डष्टठआदृड्डेत्काख्याआष्ठक्याध्या ३

I-

Q
.0 IIIIII03.1 GAO

हुड़ेहँऊं'प्रठहकुंट्वेंश्लीएँ [ड्डिश्यानंरुड्ड] int) tarsal at.

