J

-v<?:w है Miners??? किंलीपंछंक्षा “J

lmai‘wtiztévani, FBA<0)A/7Jt:rtttcb%
HAhMIébix. RUE.

स्मरैदृरेंछिदृड़ेद्देर्डिंड्डेहैंहेंमुँव्यठ

ऊंग्रैटद्रगुदुतेंहुन्नादृदैदुरग़नुझिकँहुँठेक्याटा ज्वटड्डेदृरु chem,
txaxt1s79‘76u\kvﬁxrwtﬂtﬂﬁ). 797’

मूध्यानुप्नछदृ/यांफुछद्धा an wtcﬁTL‘ﬁBﬁH/‘ﬂﬁﬁﬁts

The

Japan

sateen, द्वि]म्नतैरिदृ'कुंहेठश्चिड्डेख्याछंत्याद्देड्डाहूँर्ण^णी३

collaboration

projects,

छत्सीछास्केहुंटेसांडेर्ग 'HJ

Asian

Petﬂmning

I'Vomen, are most interesting, as none of them

aims at producing works that are easily palatable
द्रनुहुँरुर्शऱक्ष्यश्चच्छाहृरू

दुग्रैष्ठाटड्डोंक्लिनुशांव्रदृट्वेबंनु warmer tn १5
meantime/95., ecmmaua‘zaee
द्वान्ता’किंटेटकृकिछेहुँटेत्रिज्ञस्टध्यस्त्रक्याट्ठी ध्वश्याझि/ड्डे/न्ह

to the Japanese audience. They are neither

interested in celebrating stereotypical ‘Asianness’
nor in evoking a discriminatory response from
the audience that “they are good in spite of being
from Asia.” ' ‘hat is to say, they are not interested

in making an effort to add yet another easy device

ram. aerriiiérnramateeéeamu
ma“. absent. ड्डहुं'ङ्कध्यानुकंध्याख्याड्डेश्याऊंत्रानु PF
'सो-रहैं/वादय:]].;.", 'Z“bZ>Ck%J:i§éit:Efl%T60)%><°&b
mmu‘. 672573795. Eftéhfvémi. Lt:

not. LiﬁrétHIJ0)%tIi-ia‘9n§ttoar). bf:
Ltceéﬁ'é’a)Hafté’fﬁigtLE'%er>7‘ﬂ%éo I351

1१६८८५५ बंछंड्डेश्याव्रद्रख्याज्व---- "टेश्नगृव्र'टऊँर्वीदृकिंध्याकृर्गोंद्दे-

to help the Japanese audience to momentarily

forget their fear. They are only interested in
exploring what theatre artists in other regions
think and feel when they make theatre and in
asking them to express that through the process
of collaboration.
The resulting productions tend to evoke
a sense of being incomprehensible, unless we
utilize all our intellect and sensibility, unless we

look at the stage and accept what unfolds before
-दैक्याऊँश्याहुंक्याम्लन्हेंछंआँक्याहूँहेंहैंड्डेदैष्टास्थाक्ताऊंमू८३ ही वे

our eyes as it is, and, unless we stop expecting

eक्या a 7-71 a. E:ऊँ L हैं-बe 2] धरी t: BE as L ' ‘ हु theatre to be a ruse to eliminate our fear. What is at
stake is less the artistic abilities of the performers

/ a कि E19 ८ :

चिं resहृ) a~ if Pa 2‘)n दृ L १ 6 a)7:“. ti

' 6 , / द्वि7;: 7": “5 0) 13८१ हैं हैंL है 75' tनु b 7’: L 7: ’6 0') Fifi हैं k L

“(15.13%Lfgif'eaéalatlan‘ibttﬂ vacate; छाछ है

and more our own power, as the audience, to

रे imagine and think about the age we live in
' through the performance. We are being asked if
and how we can subdue our urge to dismiss, what

र्द्धठदुत्काकृहेंश्याऊँनु म्नबैरिक्लैह्रग्रैवीड्डलेकृकुशांनंदृटा
tends to manifest as a negative emotional response
3
to
the performance, viewing it as irrelevant or
tarantwﬁanazaware/mam ३"
uninteresting, and how we can intellectually

Lita view», च्चाएँड्डेहँटठर्द्धयांड्डूद्गी Li, €5ch श्र्वदृड्ड
धात्कारैश्याहिंत्रंदृठेट्टेछेग्रेख्यहैड्डेव्रटुठादृष्टाख्या Bronte

म्लस्ताछै

‘ gaze and Viscerally feel the performance. Can we
imagine the character’s problem as our own? If
we can do that, it may become possible to envision
some ways of truly doing away with the irrational
fear we all share. Performing %;7zen is indeed a
daring and beautiful challenge to the intellect and
sensibility of the Japanese audience, asking us if

।प्रे"५३भिप्रदृ7-९रा३--न्द्र;-नौजि२जी-औ१त:र्माजिप्रय९तो"७हिटा ﬁrst;
स्सारैक्याड़ेङ्कतेंहुँद्विश्याशांक्याधिदृ. र्ट्सज्जऊंछाठ्यष्टच्चाजांकृड्डी-श्रम्नअटे
झावंध्यात्माहिं. मुंड्डकृहंडेद्गहैं'ट्वेंग्लिठद्धा:फियां'छच्चोंष्टानुकुंड्रैफैचाँखु
fifiifalmsofiittl (1996i. स्ताड्डेदृहैंवृमृहिंक्रै was???»

we really wish to overcome the crisis of our age
of fear.

L3»t7»~vyx«—~20tta7wmi§1§uanl (200133.
महितेन';..".---].-'-.:?..-:-"--.--), Frrmastttawww—F—ru

and Sciences, University of Tokyo, Uchino teaches

च्चोंदृघ्रक्या-क्लिंक्टिश्चिठेरु-खीड्डिष्टी] (चिंध्याआँ 2001र्दकृडे6र्तीटिङ्क
wet-Irena) 1a. mam मृश्चाहेंछंटेचिंड्डश्यकृहुहँल्लिक्तिस्थि:
2a ९' o“) अई-त्-श्व-जी-हं-दे-ल-यती...'" ataeoaaueamta
i; air-iazwwmneiau. टश्चहुँकृनुढूँष्ठनुहुंर्शादृफ्लॉऔं
mam?9‘7:anweimitatoataaiwnease.

the US, as well as issues connected with globalization
and the physical body. His literary works include

(

t

Foundation’s

including

131३१८3द्देप्रे७टा'स्तीक्वा'ह्न०३ट९ aim ज्वग्रैनुटाहुँशांक्याव्रवृड्डेहें

(D‘ﬁl'l'ikFﬁ'lﬁ«®ftvy§m7)’eiiz>o

“I

ड्डस्थिवें 2.33-

नै 0) ll र्देहूँC 5it 7': 'ठेl ét/Sx < U[हीं आरा-;-: एँदँर्गेहृहुँ कुंटे
( : a57 छत्र'eas?) 652‘;an :1 कृनंडा/… अयु yo")sari: प्र'

7i<7°u=2171~t=~ia sitar). 2yt7°iﬁaﬁﬁisttre®§§
2w<‘—<:rtlli%tefaztﬁim.

Tadashi Uchino
Professor at the Graduate School of Arts
"Culture and Representation. His area of expertise is
the comparison of avant-garde theatre in Japan and

Deconrtraeting flapanesenea‘s’i' waard Articulating
Locality and Hybl‘idz‘ttt in Contemporary Japanese

Performance (Dis/Orientations, Monash University,
1999); Political Displacements: Toward Hiatoricizing
Bree/2t in Japan, 1932-1998 (Brecht Source Book, NY:
Routledge. 2000): Villages
Armageddon: Japanir
[9804‘ Theatre Culture” (The Drama Review 44.1.
MIT Press, 2000), and Plat/ing- b’etwixt ana’ Between:
Intercultural l’etybrmance in t/ze Age (J Globalization

(Playing Betwixt and Between: The IDEA Dialogues
2001, IDEA Publications, 2001). With his broad
knowledge and elaborate theoretical organization,
he plays an important role as a speaker at numerous
international conferences, and has recently turned
his attention to promoting the study of Asian theatre
in Japan which until now has not received as much
attention as American or European theatre. [n this
project. he always inspires the members from the
theoretical and conceptual points of views.

