‘)-ﬁ-§?y/\V(il‘léllmilz>&)lE’EM’EL'CABV. B
कंट्यड़ेस्थाहैंशांड्डटेष्णकैर्दहेर्जिटाड्डूष्टाड्डू tomcat).
:0)J:5E7°Ut7.7‘rfo. streamers-1
व्रकृदृड्डीदृऊँक्यादुध्याऊंदृड्डादृरंरंहंक्शाठेत्यातेंहेदृग्टच्छाश्चाक्वेंट्स 7t7>

:7
('D
C—4
9-7

“U
93

D
त्
01
C

D
Q9-7

Q.
O

D

v

Foundation’s

serious

the ASEAN Culture Center, which was meant

to promote intellectual and artistic exchange in
Southeast Asia. Afterwards under its new name:
The Asia Center”, it began to focus on introducing

contemporary theatre, something ithad previously
little contact with. Not only the performing arts,
but also in the visual arts and cinema divisions,
it took the initiative in introducing contemporary
Asia. For its commencement performance, the
work chosen was 7726 Ritual ofSolommzfr Children,

by the Indonesian poet and director, Rendra.
This work, which, dispensed almost entirely with
words, relying on the use of sinuous movement
and sound, symbolically depicted the ‘group ego”
and the loss of the individual that result from
modernization. This work (ﬁrst performed as a test
piece in 1967) was Rendra’s ﬁrst, who after this,

gathered in a lot of support from the people and
gave rise to anti—establishment feeling, ultimately
resulting in his imprisonment. The ASEAN
Culture Center, by placing this work, which was
born with a sense of inevitability in the midst of '
the mad rush of the Southeast Asian countries
toward modernization, at the starting point of
its subsequent endeavors, has demonstrated the
types of issues it feels necessary to address in the
future.
Following, the ASEAN Culture Center
(later the Asia Center) has continued to introduce
a variety of works that can be taken as snippets
of the times we live in. There is a lengthy process
in selecting just one work, requiring traveling to
the place where the work was born, talking to

the theatrical artists and seeing as many works as
possible, which necessitates further discussions.
For every one piece we choose, there are tens
of works looked at, and once a play has been
found, much time must be spent talking with

the director about how to go about showing it in
Japan. Sometimes, the discussions surrounding
one work give rise to another comparable work
that can be set along side it. An example of this
is, the piece, Elli'z'lz'busterzlsmo (“Subversion”) by
the Philippine novelist Jose Rizal that depicts the
night before independence, was brought here
and had a moving impact on the many people
in the audience, after which, some impassioned

discussion with director Nonon Padilla resulted
in his creating a new piece for us entitled, Nolz'ﬂ/[e

Ybngm‘e (“Touch Me Not”) that would serve as the
preceding part to the ﬁrst one.
From this kind ofprocess itwas a natural
development to start creating works jointly with
the directors. The ASEAN Cultural Center’s ﬁrst
joint production was the play Three Children

)‘Cltt‘xa—oﬁtﬂoﬁéﬁﬂ#iIH'HiQZﬂi. W7?“
व्रट्वेंएँ' … w ‘ v 1/ … प्र र t 0”) F 2 I) —— - v? w Pv ‘x J

Japan

\
J

दुहुँ

uedef GILL

meanestauonhm. éwﬁﬁffﬁtiﬂcéf/

/'\
तै

S G UOI iepunog

णा'क्तीपृष्टारेंर्वनुडेड़ष्टाऊं. दृब्लाफैकंह्रध्या'ह्नहुँड्डेन्नक्याबाँटदृ,
प्रेड्डाहुंफ्लॉर्टीपंड्डरूक्लिंपृ/हैंश्याऊंत्रा:ख्यादृस्लाहैकेंन्तीक्ष्यश्चाक्वेस्टछा x
दृ दृ) किं t as डि'वृ ea» ( 7 t हेंठे L a L \. दै a)he हूँ ci .
tﬁivzd’rt'ﬁseaIJZatc:Eakrscttsabot. 74
utwmatateajn ‘fcrtvt- w—wiattosl—
श्रेणी" [3३/1/-74५7३2बँ'122रै (HE) J हृद्रऊँहैंष्टि 'दृहुँहृदृ
(टीहूँटिठेश्र्वदृदैहृहुँण्डिड़ेहँटिश्चि ifiEmJy/y-Nﬂ—U

iutof [12110 I 141311191111

930?, kh‘5EL\7°r—‘l*l:x7)§3507:, ठेहुहुँ/र्णहैं1कं

S U01 ionpoag

हुंहृअँद्देल्यक्तिहुंदृख्यानंदृहँट्ठेभुईख्याट्वेंप्याश्चिक्लीद्धू हें'दृश्रीष्टार्द्धर
हेंमूछंहृऊंबैक्लैहिंष्टात्माक्याख्यादृख्याक्लिंकुंछेहैंरु५ क्लिंट है
क्या) दटहुंहुंक्रां: w रिस्ता) at» 031’s 5% ( कांरंहृढऊँ
1967फैक्ति३3३८० ऋक्लिंग्रं’ग्रक्रंध्याड्डाशांदृट-दैष्ठाटप्रेमुँ
रिष्ठि/टेष्टाऊँन्तीनंक्याठे'बैहृऊँ’किहृ'ड्डेक्यट्टद्रड्डटेक्यादृनुप्याश्चिदृकें'गृ
ड्डेकिंएँहैं,लें.दनुऊँहँह्रटव्रटस्ता५ 7e7yjtfttya—zié
awareewiaxotﬂtwséaaamtrcteza.
was. 7e7yjcﬂycya—. 797ey
a—u. घ्नडैदृभिदृ'द्याध्याध्दठकिं/देसांक्तिहे झेड्डअँफैज्जाऊँक्या
7‘3... lleC/"M’Er'ijci'i’iﬁééillli. éi‘tﬂlltﬂa’ti. हँहूँष्ठिज्ञा
Armagnac. न्टा'ठेठाग्रैंहृष्टाध्या'ड्डझेदृक्तठेहिंख टे टद्देहें

19H PIHA

Tc, 7t,—7°:.‘/7°%Efet2§i:&:c:ca. 4yrt‘av70);¥f
A-z‘ﬁtﬂ’a‘twrfiwt‘ﬁéfa ष्ठिप्या'ष्टध्याकिंद्धईहृप्रॉॐष्टा
र्ट-हैंहृड़दृदृश्चादृड्डेहुँट्वेफुक्याड्ड हुंहूँखाठेड्डे/ष्टिप्टऊँछंक्ति saw:
क्याकंकूच्छटेहैंश्चा: प्रेएँरिटिस्टऊंठहुँहृह्माष्टानुनुटाक्लिंष्टा

The

involvement with contemporary Asian theatre
can be traced back to 1990 when it founded

छि
तैहैंच्चा a:ठे किlbकिं
(W e

फैटीहुँदृचंर्पिंप्रॉहँक्ताक्तश्यारु ﬁt]; WHEN:
stom’Cé, I'E‘JBettory'i‘efiiactuseateou

रेर्द i r.,८ E

(wastage) हैं" Ev-Em-

lift: छरेंहँङ्गह्रड्डड्डहुंट्टेश्चा? द्रग्रं'स्काप्टितेंहुंज्ञाईडेमृ 0)ma E19
मूअंट्यबँफैस्टड्डेहुँकैष्टादृध्याद्धू 1.990543c:7t7‘/3Utt
ya—tvi. क्रत्काग्रं'ग्रग्रं'श्याशांञ्चढ़रेंहँट्वेंक्वेंहृ-हँड्डभैप्रेब्दक्लिं
c:##4ttf:%l$e§&ﬂititHecate. fawn/“ﬂy
a—kaﬁttﬁ;sh5:tc:aa:a)eya—ti. that
दठेक्षाप्टसिंछंनुग्रंगृस्ताहंछेष्टाद्धृदृन्नश्चाव्रटक्याटिहँड्डेकांक्यावैदृड्डक्ति:

i) Z) ०

नं'ख्वाकैच्चोंअं-अच्चाप्तार्श्वद्र’क्ति'ड़क्लिंणाश्चिक्लिटू'प्लां/-च्छा

with Singapore and Malaysia in 1992. The work,

which was written by a Chinese/Malaysian female
70)7‘)~‘/;y-Nzyyifaf—wapty aways?
playwright, co—directed by Krishen Jit of Malaysia

n‘ﬁ‘wt, -र्देध्याश्चाच्चोंन्हद्रु'हिंर्द्धआंहृउँमृदृड्डम्नबाँटध्याप्रफै f‘)
71 (iiElIEEéEJJtH—zls. awa‘xt‘xiiﬁt was.
टप्या’ट्विझहुँदृहाट्यऊँश्रड्डा- 77,1570) WTEEJ (DEEt—Eit
प्यापैदेंऊँहिंष्टिछिगा'आंरै. नंक्याहेदृबैख्याक्याब्लठेवंद्धू amaze
ﬂare:er श्चाष्टीचिंटऊँत्मानुधिगंटिंष्टाश्वीढेद्वाद्रलैत्याकैईटे
ateU—QL. it. [aaaerta-ttaitm
ओंर्मड्डहाङ्कश्याहैवृईद्देनुदृसांटेछ"ओंटेकिंर्डदेंहंहाँड्ड द्वाश्रंऱटेनंमृ
[नु mac/7. VVifn‘f—IV. M. 7V—V7’
0J6 71l318i‘tﬂiéli7b‘6féiéléLtiﬁl33?. . {if

25

b

S ठ"T?बैले ५'S \‘ «l -५र' >4 J

twat. asacciaauma)ra1aess<:ui

rl३u

“Colin ‘0

by Malaysian, Singaporean and Japanese actors,

(4-:
t u . O6 6 l ) f
l

दुहँड्डेस्टहुँठाटर्द्धर्वहाँच्चाफिहुँहँष्टा 1४1/-८7श्रेकृ३2न्न5०टिटेहुँ०

and Ong Ken Sen of Singapore and performed
1 Hall)!qu SIUOUIOIOSJIO [EDITH SILL

étlE'JiEiiliﬁL. V/ﬁrﬁ—wAtvv—y7/ktﬂ7is
AfﬁlilatiiiiECKOM’Fﬁati. she:

could be seen as a training piece for the Japan
Foundation for its future collaborative work.
After that through the process of
inviting artists to Japan, we continued to build

relationships with a variety of theatrical artists.
The culmination of these relationships was the
production of Lear (script by Rio Kishida from
Japan, directed by Ong Ken Sen from Singapore).
This work borrowed the form of Shakespeare’s
play KingLem; with its relationship between the
king and his eldest daughter. But the plot was
scrapped and instead we see the daughter bringing
about the murder of her father through which we
are to visualize the new generation doing away
with the old and abandoning all fixed ideology
in an attempt to discover a brand new theatrical
language. Directors, musicians, actors and
dancers from China, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Singapore, and Thailand, in all, six countries and

