D | RECTO R
B. J ayas h ree
B Jayashree is the product of a philosophy ‘Home is
theatre, theatre is home’. She is the grand daughter
of Gubbi Veeranna, the architect and the life force
of the celebrated Gubbi Company. She went on the
stage at the tender age of four. In the past five
decades B. Jayashree has been the symbol of the
evolution of theatre in Karnataka.
Well known groups like Benaka, Nataranga,
Rangasarnpada and Spandana have featured her
in their famed productions. She has figured in
innumerable plays during her long and
distinguished career, including the epoch-making
ones like Mother, Jokumaraswamy, Tingara
Buddanna, Antirna Yaatre, Barrister, Karirnayi,
Lakshapathi Rajana Kathe, Agnipatha, Bannada
Badukina Chinnada Hadugalu, Manthara etc.
She has been a Creative Director since 1976 for
Spandana, which has an International reputation.
Under Spandana’s banner she has directed and
acted in more than 50 plays, many of them listed
earlier.

Jayashree is one of the pioneers in promoting
theatre music by conducting workshops and
performances all over India and abroad.

Jayashree has worked as an Assistant
Choreographer for the Festival of India of Sweden.
The play “Lakshapati Rajana Kathe", directed by
her participated in the International Experimental
Theatre Festival in Cairo and Tashkent in 1989.
Worked in a joint collaboration project between
Spandana and Theatre Workshop Edinburgh,
Scotland to commemorate 50 years of India’s
Independence. She directed a play “HOOVI” in
English for the group ICHF Dallas USA in the year
2004.
The awards conferred on her include the Uttar
Pradesh Sangeet NatakAcaderny’s Safdar Hashrni
Award, Karnataka Natak Academy Award (1996),
Aryabhata and Udaya TV’s best playback singer
Award. ‘Knockout’ (1997) and the prestigious
Central Sangeet-Natak Akaderni Award in 1997.
Sandesh Award, Shankare Gowda Award,
Karnataka Excellence Award, Kalpana Chawla
Award, best Supporting Actress Award for her role
in the feature film “Nagarnandala” from the
Karnataka Govt. Alvas Siri Award and Kannada
Rajyothsava Award, B.V. Karanth srnrithi Sanman
in Jan 6, 2005. Essel Karnataka’s Best Art and
Culture Award, D.Lit. Hon. Doctorate From
Karnataka Open University, Mysore and many
more...

