Director’5 Note
I he ambiguity of the plays theme compels one to search out its meanings which reveal themselves,
layer upon layer as the tale unfolds.

Rani’s dilemma as to the true identity of her husband is the larger manifestation of Karnad’s basic
premise that there can never be a sharp or singular definition as to what constitutes the truth. The
truth lies somewhere between Rani’s experience of dream and reality, between the impotence and
insensitivity of her husband who comes to her by day, and the potent, yet sensitive Nagappa who
comes to her by night. Thus, the truth as Karnad finally formulates it, is intangible, formless and
invisible—ethereal, like a spirit, but which has the force and power to shake the rafters of the

house, as Kurudavva says when referring to the female spirit that invaded her house one night,
sweeping her son Kappanna off into the unknown.

Kurudavva’s exposition of her son’s disappearance jolts Rani from her trance like state and gives her
an insight into her own conundrum. Suspended literally between life and death to tell the truth as
to who is the father of her unborn child by the Panchayat, Rani finally belts out in an ejaculatory
fashion, “Do desires really reach out from some world beyond, right into our beds.”

The possible existence of some ‘world beyond’, prompts Rani to finally take the plunge and risk
she
her life. It is at that moment when she pulls out the deadly poisonous snake from the pit that
is filled with the creative power of knowledge as to what constitutes the truth.

pale
Like truth, creativity too is sustained and governed by its own laws which reign beyond the
playwright
restrictive human logic, and so Karnad sees the two as related. The play begins with the
so that it
addressing the audience. Karnad thus positions himself very definitely in the drama,
common in tra—
becomes practically a first person account. Appearing in the guise of a Sutradhar,
nced creatively
ditional theatre, the writer lays bare his predicament, viz. , that he has been pronou
to stay awake
dead, as all his plays have put the audiences to sleep! As penance he has been cursed
dozed off every night,
one whole night this month. Such a task has been near impossible as he has
nilly , otherwise he
and tonight being the last night of the month, it has to be accomplished, willy
will die!

es his sense of disoriThe appearance of ‘talking Flames’ and a character called ‘the Story’, enhanc
wishes her tale to be heard, which
entation, as to whether he is awake or dreaming. ‘The Story’

sleep’, a prerequisite for
suits the Writer, who has to stay awake. Thus it is in a state of ‘wakeful
» ' तर दृ st, ईत्नष्ठ " -दृ

rहै-उ-नम:--:.----'-.-.-.-------..--]

श्रीमनौ स्की न---:...--..., द्वारा
.
स्नानं

३५
"चा

r “I” , V
b

च

३…

we ३

‘K "‘

l पुल:

