realization and insight, that the Writer absorbs the tale.
V:

y to the predicament of the
Though the story told is about the woman, Rani, it relates equall
ormed into a story of
Writer. For in the telling of the tale the Writer’s creative impotence is transf

out, fol—
sexual impotence. At first the sexually inadequate self of the husband, Apanna, is played
tive
lowed by the playing out of his alter ego, the potent self, Naga. Seen from the Writer’s perspec
the playing out of both selves becomes a therapeutic experience in self knowledge.

MAN AND WOMAN
nightmare,
Through this folk tale which takes on the garb of now a beautiful dream and now a

Girish Karnad also explores the role of the woman in both its mythic and cultural dimensions. The
societal gaze sees a woman in the circumscribed images of virgin, adulteress or goddess, which

become the restrictive parameters Rani seeks to break, in her search for the truth.
In a perverse move to safeguard her chastity, Rani is locked within the four walls of her home by
her husband. Later she is stripped naked and humiliated in front of the whole village and finally
put on a pedestal and incarcerated within the image of the Mother Goddess. None of the roles are
of her own making. She has exercised no choice, rather she has been trapped into preconceived cul—
tural and societal images of womanhood.

Two contrary movements occur relating to character. While Rani journeys from human being to
divine personage, Naga, the Snake God, the primordial force of Nature, of sex and procreation, is
aroused from his deep slumber of meditation and in response to the pain and suffering of the
woman, he takes on the human form in the shape of Rani’s husband, Apanna. Once human, he is

ensnared in the web of human emotions, desires and weaknesses. After saving Rani, he suffers
pangs of jealousy as she is reunited with her husband, and unable to bear the pain of separation
from his beloved, commits suicide.

I REA'I‘MEN'I‘
Nagarnandala was written in the 1970s at a time when playwrights, actors and directors were dis—

carding Western inﬂuences in favour of indigenous ones which would link them more surely to our
own theatrical heritage. In this context they found that a rich storehouse of performing traditions
was still in ex15tence in many parts of the country and if sensitively understood and studied in contemporary terms, would be capable of sustaining a dynamic, new, and exciting movement in the—
atre.

