Here we find Karnad drawing on what he calls folk or ‘kitchen tales’ as his content. Likewise the
basic form and structure of the play are derived from the simple episodic pattern of folk narrative.
The plot is conceived of as a series of repetitious actions which grow in intensity and import till
they reach their final conclusion. These main scenes involve the two central characters, Rani and
Apanna/Naga. These are interspersed by either the comic interludes of Kurudavva and Kapanna
who carry the story forward, or by a Narrator, or by songs and dances by the Flames. In order to
v1sualise the strange happenings in the play, Karnad makes use of several conventions found in folk
drama.

Karnad’s text becomes a challenge for the actors and the director, who are basically of urban sensi-

bility and training, to visualize the text not as a piece of folk theatre, to be performed by folk artists,
but to find a contemporary equivalent, in terms of language and form, to tradition.
As our point of departure we began with the complex use made of the body and voice by the tra—
ditional actor. Using mime, dance, the spoken word, recited or chanted choral passages and song,
as our multiple means of expression, we developed the sequences at times fore—grounding song, at
other times the mimetic gesture etc. , for a particular sequence. Later these were strung together in
a seamless fashion so that the actors move from one mode of expression to the other.
In selecting our main sources from which the movement pattern and music would derive its impe—
tus, we selected two traditional dance drama forms viz. Kathakali and Manipuri, seemingly incom—
patible traditions. Kathakali provided us with the rhythmic strength, it helped in the conception
of the large theatrical moments of the play and side by side provided us with the much needed
"I‘andava’ element. The Manipuri influence provided us with the smaller refined and delicate
movements and in giving expression to the ‘Lasya’ elements in the play.
The comic interludes, unlike those visualized in most traditional drama, as being conceived of in
the more realistic vein, in our case, remains more formally stylized, and derive inspiration from the
‘Kyogen’ of Noh drama. Other elements like the Kabuki ‘mie’, the use of clappers and the treatment given to the long entries and exits, draw upon my experience of Japanese theatre. The corn—
bined use of such elements give the present production its form and style.
For modern actors like Manohar Singh, Riya Mukherjee, Mona Chawla and Suresh Shetty,
schooled in the more naturalistic approach to acting, this entire exercise of making much greater

use of the body and voice has taken many months to achieve. Also the constant shift from one
generic mode of expression to the other, is something they were unused to.

