THE SET
has come is transformed into the ritual sacred
The abandoned desolate temple to which the Writer
gh the re—enactment of both his conscious
space within the confines of which he is exorcised throu

her plural identities through a series of
and sub—conscious selves. It is here too that Rani plays out
ritualized reenactments.

m, a temple theatre. Whereas the Noh
The traditional theatre building of Kerala is the Kootampala

r to its Indian counterpart in
stage of Japan, where ‘dream plays’ are enacted is strikingly simila
. Nissar Allana thus goes back to
design. Both are bare platforms supporting a roof on four pillars
s a contemporary equivalent, that
the sources of both these traditions as his inspiration and create
is eschewed, both in line and form.
which is suspended a large slatted roof
His set is comprised of a simple rectangular platform above
roof of billowing ‘chatai’ is suspended
in a form derived from the Kootampalam roof. A second
rm is lit on the four corners by
above the first, enhancing the sense of vertical space. The platfo
lamps .

ely significant, for these are the
As in all classical Asian forms of theatre, entries and exits are extrem

he enters the
exclusive moments when the actor directly communicates with the audience before
a held up curtain. In Nissar’s
psycological space of the action. In Kathakali, entries are made behind

In Japanese
set a curtain is used as a dramatic revealing device for the ferocious entry of the Naga.
offstage to the main play—
Noh and Kabuki, pathways called ‘hanamichi’ or ‘hashigakari’ lead from

tradiing area. Here again, on Nissar’s set, they have found different positions from those used
distance,
tionally. They have also been multiplied into a series of three ramps, which are set in the
the
and besides functioning as gangways for entries, they give depth and a sense of perspective to
hand, fIattens the
stage picture. The fact that the cyclorarna is covered with ‘chatai’, on the other

stage picture. Thus Nissar arnalgarnates two traditions, dynamically juxtaposing one against the
other, reducing depth on the one hand, and enhancing it on the other.

The entire set is textured with fine “chatai” and this together with the simple lines and ﬂoating
smoke, creates a sense of a quiet repose associated with sacred spaces. Nissar’s stage becomes a neu—
tral ground on which the ritual reenactments of perennial tales can take place repeatedly.
Amal Allamz

