Remembering Dr Mahes
'
t was during the All India ३
Dance Seminar organized‘by
the Sangeet Natak Akaderni

"

of basic dance mov nents, hastas

I“ Dr Sunil Kothari.
dance, attitudes, visions, prejudic-

es — all Were found in their write

ings. At places one noticed the shad—

used, Bargeets rendered with the
songs, some of _the5dance repertoire, young monks ressed in female costumes, etc. ३ created tre-‘

to Guwahati and then with him Vis—
it Majuli. It happened in 1966 when
I ﬁrst visited Majuli. Dr Neog gave
me introduction letters to the Sattradhikar of the Kamalabari Sattra
and others. I tookvwith me a Rol—
liﬂex camera to photograph the

ya dances among whom the princi—

I!

ple dancers were Indira PP Bora
.l

and .Sharodi Saikia, who opened a
new chapter in the history of Sat-

triya dances which were till then a
preserve of only male dancers. Dr

owpf reform and the hint of changfrom March 31 till April ’2,
1958 at Vigyan Bhavian in New ‘ ing social order.

mendous interest among the

Among them, Dr Maheswar

Not that there was“ ny sophisti-

dance techniques and also masks,

Neog from Assam brought to the

cation in its presenta n. Butthere
existed a dance traditﬁ)n in Assam

costumes and ornaments, the gu—

V order to make the dance form ac—
cessible to masses including wom- ‘

rus and disciples, and young monks,

en. That speaks highly ofhis catho—

which was brought to… he notice of

and make copious notes of the his—
tory and songs, various aspects of
Sattriya dances, the plays by Sank—

lic attitude.
I started giving lectures on Sat-

Delhi that I had met Dr Maheswar
Neog for the ﬁrst time. It was a
historic dance conference. From all
over India dancers, gurus, choreographers, critics, dance connois—

_ surprise ofthe majority of the scholars, dancers, choreographers, gu—
rus the so far unknown world of

seurs had assembled to learn about .
the dance traditions of India. I was
a youngup and coming dance schol-

the dances performed by the celi—

bate monks in the Sattras in Assam. These dances were being prac—

ar, a greenhorn attending this most

tised for more than 500 years in

३ fascinating conference, the like of
३ which had not taken place.
Looking back today in 2016 after
58 years, I marvel at the luck I had
to attend it. and learn a lot about
Indian dance traditions of our country. . It also was a turning point in

more than 600 Sattras in Assam.
But little precious was known to

my life,because at that time I was

he presented was ‘Indian Classical
Dance Literature and _ Subhankar '

studying for the profession of chartered accountant. It was a far cry
from' accountancy to dancing, but आँ

the people outside Assam about this
rare dance heritage of India.
Dr Neog presented his paper ti—
tled ‘Sattriya Dances: Dance traditions in Assam’. The other paper

३ assembled scholars, gurus, danc—

han Khokar encouraged me to do

ers, Choreographers and critics.
Though in 1955 in Delhi during a

own part of the country. Others
preferred to speak of their journey
in dance or those of their mentors,

or to“ deal with special aspects of’
dance. Contemporary trends in

the participants. Also iI raisedquestions about it being co l sidered,as a
classical dance form ० - ssarn.
It was entirely due - v Dr Neog’s
ﬁeldwork and connect' n r it With the .
Natyasastra texts, ०I. ‘ervations

with other dance fo

, its macro

and micro movemen- ' हैं aharya,

land who gave the demonstration

Kamalabari Sattra with young

triya dances with Indira PP‘ BOra,
Raseshwar Saikia and Ghanakanta ;
Bora and attempted to draw atten- ‘
tion to its classical nature. Our lec-

Ghanakanta Bora who helped me ८
tures over the years were held in
with my research work. The SatNew Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai,
tradhz'kar arranged for rehearsals
and demonstrations. These Were ' Ahmedabad, Chennai, etc.

my initial attempts to document and
were not of veryhigh order. There-

We were most distressed that
Dr Neog‘passed away before the
Sattriya dance received recognition

his principle disciple हैं
and the vast 1 iterature,‘ ।

fore, Dr Anand suggested that I
should go to Majuli again and visit

V thanks to Dr Bhupen Hazarika’s

- ya dances were COHSiIé‘ "

the other Sattras like the Auniati.

study the form. The photos I took

After those initial efforts, when-

in 2000 as a classical dance form,
Herculean efforts, convening a
four-day seminar, arranging meet-

ever I got an opportunity to visit

ings with Sattradhikars, leading 4

Assam, I would meet Dr Neog and

gurus, dancers and scholars to wit—:

ness the performances and take part
spend time with him. He would
with great patience explain me var- . in the demonstrations and discus- I
sions; ﬁnally the form was accept: ‘
ious aspects of Sattriya dances, Oja
nipuri and Kathakali, t ‘.

research in Sattriya dancवं
enough attention as it did when Dr
Neog presented the legendary I bring out a special issue a ,
Sattriya.
५
Maniram Dutta Mukhtiyar and his
disCiples, the celibate monks from I - I was in the followin ठ

the Kamalabari'Sattra of Majuli is-

ardeva and so on. I stayed at the

Neog supported the movement in

padabhedas, chalis, t e form of
Ankiya Naat, the Bha: a, the six
plays of SankardeVa an others by

dance festival Dr Neog had brought

a group of monks to perform Satfellow practitioners from other re— . V triya dances, it had not drawn

gions a picture of the dance in their

,

I
Kavi’s Hastamuktavali’. Both the ‘ jor dance form.
I was encouraged b '३
papers were an eye. opener for the

Dr Mulk Raj Anand and Prof Mo—
the research on Indian dance.
. Most of the speakers during the
seminar attempted to bring before

present audience. ५ है

constant touch with Dr 1
wasinquiring when 1 sho‘

ed as a classical dance. If it were

Palz' and its related forms. We also
visited [ )hubri to see and film the
Nati (lance form. At that time I also
met Ra seshwar Saikia who was at
Kamalabari and later on moved to

ings, researches and ﬁeldwork i

Guwahati and entered gri-’
hasthashmm. After marriage, he
started I raining young girls Sattri—

(Published on the occasion 0 .
Dr Maheswar'Neog’s let death.”
anniversary today).

not for Dr Neog’s primary writ
Sattriya dances, it would not hav ;
become popular now.

’

2

