about anglar Mukh
ANGLAR MUKH (The Face of Bengal) is an echo of the agonised
B cry of humanity from across our borders. It is the saga of courage
and sacriﬁce of a brave Nation in revolt against the brute forces of

oppression and exploitation, of ignominy and humiliation perpetrated
by a ruthless dictator. It is the story of the shameful betrayal of the
seven-and-a-half crores of valiant, freedom-loving people of Bangla Desh
by the wanton military junta of lslarnabad.
The locale of the play is turbulent Bangla Desh in the midst of a
mighty conﬂagration, with the indomitable people valiantly engaged
in the ﬁght of their lives against the satanic war-machine of Pakistan...
Somewhere in Bangla Desh, Yusuf, Munir, Nitai, Tahir and Ismail

meet in a mosque to plan an assault on an advancing column of the Pak
troops. They plead with the age-worn Maulvi to escape to safety but
the old man declares that he is inseparately rooted to the shrine and
would rather prefer to lay down his life there than, to desert it for fear.
Suddenly, some footsteps are heard ! The Maulvi persuades the
freedom-ﬁghters to quit the place and some Pak army ofﬁcers arrive.
They are Colonel Kazam Khan, Major Zaveri Waheed (a Baluchi),
Major Kabirul Islam (a Bengali Ofﬁcer who has been disarmed), Captain
Habibullah with a soldier. The Colonel orders the Maulvi to disclose
the whereabouts of the freedom-ﬁghters and tortures him. On his
refusal, the Maulvi is ordered to be shot down. As he is led away,
Major Islam protests only to face hostile aggressiveness of the other

oﬂicers except Major Waheed. Now arrives Brigadier Samadullah, who
is an interesting character and is given to excessive drinking. He is
bitterly sarcastic about the boastful bravado of the Pakistani oﬁicers.
He makes contemptuous remarks at the ofﬁcers who had attacked the
unarmed Bengali Ofﬁcer and walks away. In come some soldiers with
the captured freedom-ﬁghters who had escaped from the mosque and a
boatman who is reported to have drowned 30 Pakistani soldiers. Now
begin a series of inhuman torture of the freedom-ﬁghters for extracting
vital secrets. The freedom-ﬁghters rise to the challenge and refuse to
give the information required. The infuriated Pakistani ofﬁcers then
hand a gun to Major Islam and order him to shoot one of the youngrnen
to death. He raises the weapon .......... ..

——-“KAAL CHAKRA” dedicates this presentation of
“Banglar Mukh” in humble tribute to the undying
spirit of the people of Bangla Desh”—

