+

l CULTURE l IIIIC l 21. ३
MANIPIIRI MERliES Wllll NAIYAM
Atmnmn [mum s t z m

0 nO .

NIL‘JMBAI TUESDAY. OCTOBER 18. 20l6

« IN BRIEF»
JAISA READY FOR RELEASE

lalso directed by Aslunosn Ra]. start about Ganeslrpurc. Saw
Kernndo, AbhllltChawn. mum Ra],leltll Walnut. Glrlla
Joshl and Shltal AlrlrranIn pivotal 1०1००. The story I: wrttton by
Ashutoslr R. and Ablilmm B. MIMI Nolltwill be seenperfurmIng

song 'BalVadysvar to‘as ० titrationblbuta In legendaryMarattll
actor Nllu Plrula. llils song I: composed by Samar Saptlrlur.and
sung by Anand Sltlndo.

KATHAK FOR KlNKlNl FESTIVAL

the raga. He also Sang a semi classical
composition. He gave a good account
ofhimself. Hewas accompanied on the
harmoniurnby Siddhesh Bicholloar and
on the tabla by Anutosh Degharia.
The second half of the programme
featured veteran ﬂautist Nityanand
Haldipur Haldipur is perhaps the only
exponent ofthe Pannalal Ghosh style of
the bansuri. It was Ghosh who invented
the bansuri as an instrument capable
of the classical idiom. Haldipur who
has trained under Ghosh himself, Devendra MurdeshWar and Annapurna
Devi plays in a manner which is soothing and pacifying. He played his
favourite raga 'mea' in the sombre
hextatonic melody. It was in the right
spirit.
He also played 'Des‘ which is an all
time hit with the audience. Haldipur
concluded with a composition'Pilu‘. It
was a masterly performance by the
elder musician. He was accompanied
on the tabla by shanatanu Shukla.

o .- o?-

By Chaitanya Padukom:
u Don’t expect111० to brag
about myself onstage, I

s ५ _2"

It neverdo that. Idon't play

wlnd«lnstrurrterrts so I can‘t
blow nty own trumpet. ' tho

'Into' acclaimed Dodasaheb
Ptralka Academy awards:
musician Kersi

कुप्तप्र१ब१०

'

1
t‘
v1

Kersl Lord was an export accordion player.
tn: wasbelng
honouredat llvo R D Bunnan~momorlcl concerts. Blessed wlth a
qulrtrysense ofspontaneous humour, Kersl would hm its

)1
1

when you don'thave time. ' no would calcloa pesky 5०11proclaimed VIP guestand wlnltat 111०.

taunting heartily with his wltty one~llnurs. 'Comoto meet me.

y गु ‘
०11०cf Korsl‘s reporteo Much I recall. when I used to 111००1 तांता
(f
athls topmost floor In this buIIdIng called lord's Apartment at
तुनै;
Bandra, was. 'Vou know I was born on Fobruary 14. and thereafter

दृ they named It Valentlno'sDay, because Iwas aआव्या of
"l ‘Imallvmarry-ano'f Modestand unassuming by until, at nulls
दृ

० few musical Ilvo events, which I mulled. Kersl would proforma

हैं
शैहुँ
ht
[

slt ‘Incuyiltc'. Novarwould 11० beupsotwtten crynlznrsfelled tn
aclmowledge hIs prucncc.Not content withlust playing drums.
accordion and syndroslnr. 1110muslc~wlmrd Lord alsoaststod
the maverick genus R D aurman to produceslam": ००11०

‘l

offoas, as In the Iconic Englsli flute prcIuda In 'Joano-lun'

13

Omnl Dlwnnl), and cram blzam sound-affect: Ilka 111०bulldﬂrtng sounds In this song‘PyuarMcIn DIIItl' (Multan). ‘Slnco we

हु
t

have 'rd' In our surname, Isues, my dad Cams. my brother

Burlorand Ishared ०fabulous rapportwith RDB.‘ he would quip]

i.

A close encounter

'I‘he Baithak format is the ideal one
for music making. Hindustani
musicreally developed as a performing
tradition or an art form through the
Baithakformat in which there isa close
rapport bemoan the performer and the
audience. Various venues have come
up of late which adhere to this format
and hostmusic concerts which are very
successful as far as thecontent and the
impact is concerned.
Shivaji Park Nagarik Sangh is one
such venue which is right inside Shivaji Park.
.;I I
,
The lush green environmen t forms Voteran ﬂautlst Nltyanand Haldlpur.
the right setting which contributes to
the quality ofmusic. lTC ISRAhad col— Kashalkar. He began with the raga
laborated with the Sangh to host a con- 'Multani' in which he sang the tradicert which featured young [TC/SKA tional khyal 'Gokul Goon Ka Chhora'
scholarSat Aishwary Mahashabde and set to the jhumra mat of 14 beats. He
the elder ﬂautist Nityanand Haldipur. has a clear voice which does not have
Sal is a youngboy in his earlytwenties. any obstructions as such. He scented
He isa student of the current star U lhas well conversant with the contours of

1: Kersiualso the ‘Lortl’ ofwitty humour!

हैं

O+

By Amarendr'a Dhanesh war

also parlonn. Experimental that".munday. 1 pm.

,t
डा

श्चभ्रदृनु b: m चू… ५,५3५/५-८५. ५ Np दृ दृaye,» पै'- फिम्पा :- दृ,ग्य.…५दृ५५……श्चि१५ ८५ pm. ८५५७- ५ A

raagam composed by the legend Shri. G N Balasubrama-

३3313"
है "
. ..
GopiltaVanna (Mohlnlmrn) Ind Deoplku Roddyﬂtuchlpudli will

८1

Ybung Vignesh Sankaranarayanan, son of Mum.
bai's Mridangarn maestro.
Shri Sankaranarayanan regaled the audience at Sri Ra]arajeswari
Temple
at
Anusakthinagar recently. His
magnetic and tnellifluous
voice kept the audience spellbound for nearly two hours.
Vignesh started offhis coricertwith a Bahudari Varnarn

niam. The piece de resistance
of the evening was the lilting
Matangi in Ramapriya ragam
set to Rupaka talam. Amba
Parameshwari, the next corriposition was rendered with
elan. Vigiesh concluded his
memorable concert With a
scintillating'[illana in Sindhu
Bhairavi. The accornpanists
on violin, rnridangarn and
the ghatam gave good support. Music attains the highest quality when‘ it allures
passers-by and keeps the audience glued to their seats
through out. Like it happened during this concert.

"

By mkshrnan Sundar'a

NOW: Naltshatra Dance Festival Is V
but:ka sums of 111०ﬁnest
'
choreogapnon of recent times. 1०1०3।Wcmon of Ramayana Classlul Dance
byUmo Dogs. Ranlana Gautier, anllra
Velma पै Daepllta Roddy Ultra Dngra

q

Vignesn Sankamatayanan holding audience captive with his ﬁne voice.

NCPA NAKSHATRA DANCE
FESTIVAL 20 l6

'३1३८

मृच

५८ ५ a

Vasu and VulbhavKrishna Miran] bolongngto thetraditional
funny at 111०Beams filial-am of Itatlrak will perform for111०
forthcomlng IOnldnl Festival organised by Sarfnllrale Bhonsle
Contra ०1 1111111 RLDeshpande auditorlum In Praline-tort on
October 22 at4pm. Thls Is In annual festival featuring talenth
dancers from all over Indla organlsod by
Sandhya Puma.

SPARKLING PERFORNCE Bismillah Khan’s birth centenary
A. city-based NGO will organise a concert 'Y'aad-eisrnillah' on October 19, here to celebrate the birth
centenary ofShehnai maestro Bharatllama late Ustad Bismillah Khan.
Founder and trustee of Madhu Murchhana vocalist
Soma Ghosh said that she and NationalAward»winning director Shubhankar Ghosh will perform at the musical prograrrune, to be heldat Nehru Centrein Worli. Ghosh, 'foster
“‘uaughter' of Khan.
said she will per»
form with Shehnai
and Sarangi andthe
evening will witness
seven Shehnai players frorri across the
nation, including
Ustad Nazim Bisi'
rnillah Khan, performing.
"Shubhankar Ghosh will present ‘Yaad-E—Bismillah', a
deco—drama film on the life and the ‘guru—shishya
parampara' of UstadBismillah Khan from his birth to his
final journey. showcasing his belief in universal peace
‘and God," said Ghosh, a Padma Shri awardee and leading vocalist ofthe Benaras Gharana. Union Minister Mahesh Shanna, MP5 Hema Malini and Udit Raj, Pt lasraj
along with many otherdignitaries are expected to attend
this event.

+Om

NIVDIJNG TO RELEASE SOON
'Ihe 1111 pair ofsmall screen Bhuslurn
Pradhan and Sansan Bulgude, who
०11१०111111०11 homo vlowm throuyr their
:
serial 'Plnlarn‘. wIII now beseen together In
fornicurnlng Marathl 111111'vadung‘, whichIs also based on०
sodal subject ontoday’s youth.111० ﬂlm Is all set to release on
215! October. Sara Shravan, who wasalso partat drelr popular
serial ‘Plnlara', will also be seen along with them. In anequally
Important role which also stars Mad Kale ( 'Saraswatl‘ serial
fame). Pralakta Blane and ShoIrhar Pludka.

‘ ‘Lr’uLJ: it. ७ .

DancersNilesh Sign and Manju aangbam.

.ire 1111111'1३11५1 with tririieslit‘ glory and
power. In watch Nilesh perform is always
a delight as he is completely Involved in
the presentation, thereby revealing his
artistic excellence.
Manju tilangbam is a handsome and
talented Manipuri dancer. His presenta»
tion was Innnaculate wuh abundance of
elegance that created a lasting impress
sion .
Besides the portrayal of the ten incarnations of lord Vishnu in Dashavatara,
Manju also danced the Krishna Nartan
that manifests in the, Malia Raas ofLord
Krishna. composed by Thiyarn Tarunkur
mar, father of theatre personality Ratan
Thiynm .
The grand ﬁnale featuring die elephant-headed God '(Eanapalil' in which
the vibrant Bharata Natyarn merged well
with the elegant Manipuri performed exquisitely by Nilesh Singha and Manju
ﬂangbam. The dancers received ﬁne or—
chestral supportwith GuruPadmini Radhakrishnan on vocals and atalentedteam
ofmusicians. Aﬁne programme indeed.

O .- . "‘

.w<.

hivoham Instlittle of l‘erlt ll'lIIIng Arts
Sand All I Iltlld \।11५1५ Association presented a unique programme.
wherein two tllSIlllt‘l classical dance styles
of India namely Mantpun merged \vtth
Bharalzi Nlttyam and the performers were
accomplished male dancers Nilesh
Smgha and Maniu lElangbam The pro»
gramme entrtlled ‘tihuraDtiniuru‘ portruyed the concept of Shamsm and
Valshnavtsnt and was held at the rmni
ELDeshpane auditorium.
Nilesh Smgha is among the leading
male dancers in Murnbai and dances with
arare qualityof vibrancy and expressional
excellence. He commencedthe perform ance with a NindaSruti wherein the com »
poser says if only Shiva had parents, he
would never be ridiculed. nevertheless the
composer surrenders and says the lord is
his parent. hence seeks protection. In
Haraya Namo the varied facets of Lord
Shiva as Nandivahana. Shoolapain Sada
Shiva. Kartmamurti and Nagahhushana

l दृ

[it \ '1']inShmrkt‘r

की

