THE GROUP
५

A CT-ONE, is a dynamic group of people from various profession backgrounds—
painters, musicians, actors, 1t‘ilTrr-‘makers, writers‘etc‘w‘fwho believe in theatre as a
movement, a process, an experiment, came under one umbrella to pursue theatre.
This unique blend is now working towards only one goal. “To provide the necessary
boost to this movement, and to be part of it, all the way”. Act-One firmly believes

that humility and sincerity coupled with a high sense of professional responsibility
and dedication makes theatre vital and startlingly original.
In the last few years Act-One has established itself as the premier theatre group
in Delhi. Every new production of Act One is awaited eagerly by the theatre loving
audience of the city and critics alike. Having set such a high standard of excellence,
it is our constant endeavor today to improve on our past efforts. We have been
invited to perform in almost all the prestigious theatre festivals all over the country.
We have performed in places like Bhopal, Allahabad, Calcutta, Amritsar, Lucknow
etc. and everywhere the response from diverse audiences has been overwhelming.
We do not believe in merely attempting to dazzle our audience with gimmicks,
paradoxes and clever stylisations. We would rather work in a straightforward
honest manner. We prefer to rely upto hard work in producing a play, in getting the
best from the actors, in achieving a high level of dramatic performance.
Act-One has tried different themes, genres and styles, Yet all the productions
have one thing in common—they all deal with real situations and view man as an
integral part of society. All our productions ultimately repose faith in humanity,
faith in the ability of the people to create and not destroy, faith in mankind to
surpass barriers which divide.
Today we have a dedicated audience for our productions, and this audience has
been expanding with each successive production. We get inspiration from this kind
of overwhelming response that we have received from audiences in the city and
outside. We know that this places an extra responsibility on us to constantly
innovate and try never to disappoint our well wishers. For us theatre is a continuous
process, an unending movement. We believe that stagnation puts an end to
creativity.
Registered under Regustration of Societies Act

