‘Like you, we want peace too’
v

i

है

1211
‘

' b

‘9-

'l

or: _‘£_ii7$‘\“."'.\
.f4 ‘ "
Mujtaba Ali hassung the lyrics penned by Muhammad Hassan M iraj

SUANSHU KHURANA
Gaali denaab chhod bhi do.
baitho kucli kaam ki baat kare
Kab tak bandook banayenge,
bachho koab kuch dliyaanblii dein
Na Bhutto ka na Gandhi ka,
ye tera nierafundahai
JUSl' whenExternal Affairs Minister Sushma
Swarajwas brieﬁng the press in Delhion the
NSA-level talks, a Rawalpindi—based Major
in the Pakistani Anny, Muhammad Hassan
Miraj, was penning these lyrics. He wanted
"to make sure that the talks happened at
leastat some level".
TitledAisi Taisi Hypocn'cy. the political
satire is a counterznarrative to an lndo-Pak
piece on the same lines by lndian outﬁt Aisi
Taisi Democracy. Both songs are poetic
parodies-cum-messages set to the tuneof
RD Burman‘s Mere saamne wali khidki mein
from Padosan.
Miraj sings. “Meresaanme walisarhadpar,
"'है sunte hain ki duslmian rehm liai. Sattar barns
hone koliai kuch ukhdaukhda reh ta hai."Sung
by Mujtaba Ali, the song has gone
viral on both sides of the border andin many
other countries.
"I heard the song created by Aisi Taisi
Derriocracyand was impressed. I thoughtwe
must respond. lt's notjustyou.even the people ofPakistan want peace. While I wasvvrit—
ing. we had the press briefing by Foreign
Minister Sartaj Aziz. followed by Sushrna
Swaraj's press conference about the talks."
says 33-year—old Miraj.who is also a writer

of stories about the Partition. The song was
released on Facebookby Miraj since You'l'ube
is banned inPakistan. In a matterof minutes,
lndian fans put up the song on YouTube.
The Pakistani Army hasn't had anything to
say on thesong yet. "They encourage me to
write." says Miraj, who writes travelogues
when travelling with the Army. in the past.
Miraj has been posted in Siachen and pa—
trolled the LoC in 2005. “Uski sabﬁlnio aur
guano mein mujhe dehshatgarhdikhaate hain/
Yahan mereschool meinteacherbh iuse dushman kehkar bulaate liai," he writes.
Miraj's family didn't migrate from lndia
but he read Amrita Pritam‘s works on the
Partition. "Everyone said Hindus killed
Muslims and Muslims killed Hindus. Noone
spoke ofthe old tonga guy from Chakwal
who saved a Hindufamily. or a Sikh.who hid
a Muslim girl and raised heras his daughter,"
says Miraj.
‘
दृ
Sanjay Rajoura. who wrote the track with j
Varun Grover for Aisi Taisi Democracy. says ‘
that it isthe timing ofthe song that makes it
so special.“And the fact that ithas beenvvrit— ‘
ten by a Major in the Pakistani Army. This is ट्वें
a ‘talk‘ through the medium of internet that
didn't requireany protocol or a dossier."
“Heis politically incorrect and makes the
song sound like a polite complaint. We are
stoked with the response," adds Rajoura.
Meanwhile. Miraj concludes with a satireon ‘
the subcontinent’s politics — Tum Dubaimein
ban de ja ma karo/ h um Ch een se
pyaar badhaate hain/ tum BjPko ballot do/
hum Mu lla se jaan ch h u daate ha i n/
Wuhan R55 kisena hai,yahanZaid ka manjan
bikta liai.

