Syn ops is
Scene 1

The play starts with an invocation of Lord Ganesh.
Maharishi Ved Vyaas begins to tell the story of an orphan
called Pippi. Her father was an outlaw living in the ravines of
Chambal. After his disappearance, Pippi comes to a big city,
where she starts living in a huge derelict house called "Thakur
Villa' with her friends, a monkey called Hanurnan Pillai, a
donkey called Ghodeshwar Prasad Chalaang, and a ghost
called Bhootj i Ateet.
Scene 2

Pillai, Chalaang and Bhootj i tell the story of Pippi's leave
taking from her father's friends in Chambal. Pippi promises
them that she will take good care ofherself.
Scene 3

Pippi meets Rinku and Tinku, two kids from her rich '
neighbourhood. The three become close friends and have lots
of fun. Pippi cooks omlettes for all her friends in the Thakur
Villa kitchen.
Scene 4

Tinku and Rinku visit Pippi’s house the next day, where
they ﬁnd her covered in yellow besan flour. They all sing a
song while she makes besan laddoos for them. After the song,
Pippi tells them that she is a "Thing ﬁnder', which means that
she goes around looking for useful objects from the stuff that
other people have discarded. All of them go out to do this
fascinating task, but Pippi ends up getting cursed by the sage
Ved Vyaas, that she will have to pick through waste all her life.
Her friends Pillai, Chalaang and Bhootj i think up a clever plan
to free her ofthe curse.
Scene 5

Two police constables, Happu Singh and Pappu Singh
come to get Pippi, so she can be put in a juvenile home to
improve her life. Pippi and her friends lead them through a
merry dance and they go away frustrated.
Scene 6

Rinku and Tinku try to convince Pippi to come to their
school. They promise her that being in school would allow her
holidays which she doesn’t get in her normal life.
Scene 7

Pippi comes to school where she bafﬂes Rinku and
Tinku's teacher with her pranks. She teaches all the students a
new song to sing and dance to. After the song all the children
disappear.
Scene 8

Tinku and Rinku's mother comes to her bureaucrat
office to tell him that their children have

husband's

disappeared. She implores him to ﬁnd them. The two

constables and school teacher reach there as well. It appears
that the children have disappeared totally, but their voices can be heard in Thakur Villa.
Scene 9

All the adults reach Thakur Villa and sing to their children
to come back. In reply Bhootj i tells them that he has made their
kids invisible and the only way they will be returned to them is
if Pippi is freed of her curse. For this to happen adults all over
the world have to promise to produce only bio-degradable
waste. The parents are unable to deliver and talks break down.
Scene 10

Pappu Singh and Happu Singh are 'pondering the situation
on stage when they ﬁnd out that all the kids have been
released.
Scene 1 1

Pippi comes on stage and says that her friends created all
this mischief without her knowledge and she has got all the

children released. Ved Vyaas comes back as the story teller and
tells the assembled children to spread the message all over the
world that non--biodegradable waste is a curse. He asks Pippi
to get back to being her original self, i. e. (Janeshj1 Ihe play
ends with Managalacharan.

