lndelible Impressions
] UGEL couL
Every landmark or phenomenal accomplishment hides in its lap an endless
struggle, criss—crossing through the intricacies and irnpendirnents countered on
its way. “Natrang” as it stands today full of vigour, repute and international

acclamation, has virtually emerged as a seat of excellence in the art of theatre.
Balwant Thakur, pioneer of this prestigious theatre group has carried it
through all the tyrannies, turbulences, seasons 8८ glories by successfully
transiting a marathon journey of more than two decades in discovering 8८
exploring his inquisitive, ingenious and distinctive theatrical insights.
Creative endeavour, strength 8८ fire of conviction, sparked in his convincing
assertions, Balwant’s indomitable quest for a magnificient theatre group
infatuated 8८ inspired all of us to join him in various ways to achieve the great
artistic cause. Natrang came into existence, withVijay Atri as its first president
8८ Balwant Thakur as its director. Even during the period of its initial struggle,
Natrang, with the active participation of its distinguished exponents, through
innovative performances, achievements रि unparalleled awards was always
understood and anticipated to achieve the present state of spectacular
eminence in national theatrical scene.
During academics at Prince of Wales College Jammu, artistic expression

reflecting in my poetry, scripts, college based theatre and broadcasting stints and
few years after that a deep necessity for rejuvenation, direction and nourishment
was felt. Our co—linearity in artistic perception was transpierced with the mutual
trust and reverence for each other, Balwant and myself took a bold initiative, to

stage “Singhasan Khali Hai" in the enchanting environs of Iyotipuram.
‘Neeli Iheel’ and ‘Nanhen Kandhey Nanhen Pair’, were the earliest plays which
gave acceptance to the Balwant’s creative रि unique treatment to the theatre. All
the prestigious venues of festivals in the Indian theatre context remained

attended and participated by “Natrang” with wide appreciation. All the
mesmerizing plays of Natrang, from “Chouraha” to “Ek Sangharsh Ka Ant",
from “Kaun Nachaye Nach" to “Mahabhoj”, from “Kasai Barah” to “Poster”
and several other plays, dominated the decade of eighties. Decades of eighties

evolved the most accomplished legendary play “Bawa Jitto", which over
shadowed the national theatre scene, and became an all time classic due to its
unique style, gigantic format and versatile use of theatrical ingredients by
Balwant Thakur.

