Festival Directors
BA LWANT THAKUR
Udhampur (JESLK)
Born in I 960 in a hilly village of Tehsil Reasi, District

ate in Mass
A Law Graduate of University of Jammu is also a Post Gradu
years research on
Communication. In the cultural field he has completed three
r Fellowship
the performing arts heritage of Jammu under a National Senio
of India, which
Award of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt.
he
he won in I 990. After starting theatre during his early school days,
ity
continued doing theatre, acting and direction during College and Univers

days and finally took up theatre as a full time profession with the formation
of ‘Natrang’ in the year 1983- While in the University he brought best

production awards for the University of Jammu and started a serious theatre
movement in the Campus.

His early productions like ‘Neeli Iheel’, ‘Nanhen Kandhey Nanhen Pair’,
‘Chouraha’, ‘Singhasan Khali Hai’, Kaun Nachaye Naach’ and ‘Rang Nagri’,
established him as one of the most creative directors of the times and he made
history by winning State Academy Awards for best productions for the years
1983, I984, 1985 and I986.

With his Dogri play ‘Bawa Jitto’, he is the first person from this Duggar land
who brought Dogri Theatre to the National limelight. With this he also made

a record by being the youngest theatre director who made it to the National
Theatre Festival. After getting recognition on the National level for a unique
and highly innovative theatre with his productions like ‘Mahabhoj’, ‘Bhoma’,
‘Poster’, ‘Ghera', ‘Kasai Barah’ and ‘Holi’, there was no end to the invitation for
participation in most prestigious festivals of the Country.
As a playwright, he has eleven plays to his credit prominent among these are
‘Ek Sangharsh Ka Ant’, ‘Yeh Laash Kiski Hai’, Aaj Ki Aurat’, Anpadein Da
Hall', ‘Is Gran Gi Surg Banai Leyo’, ‘Suno Eh Kahani’, ‘Ghumayee’, ‘Aap
Hamare Hain Kaun’ and ‘Hum Hain Na’. Till date, Balwant Thakur has
participated over 85 National Theatre Festivals as a Theatre Director, which is
a record in tl’lE Country.

In the year I992, he was awarded the ‘Sanskriti Award’, which is given to one
theatre person in three years. In the same year he received the prestigious 'The

Ford Foundation (USA) Grant Award’ for his project - “Search for New
Theatre Language”.

In Childrens Theatre, BalwantThakur is one of the few names of the Country
who have made a unique contribution in establishing a new Children's Theatre
है 4

