idiom and his plays Aap Hamare Hain Kaun’ and ‘Mere Hisse Ki Dhoop
Kahan Hai’ have been performed all over India for over sixty times each on
repeated requests. His new children production ‘Hum Hain Na’ created
vibrations in the theatre World.
For his outstanding contribution in the ﬁeld of theatre he has been awarded

the ‘All India Citizen Award’ in the year I 994 and ‘Abhinayak Samman’ in
I 996. In All India Cultural Competitions he won best director awards for the
year I 985, I 986, I987. He was also honoured with the ‘Gurushree’ and

‘Sapatrishi Sammarf in I 999 and 200 I .
Conferred with the highest Indian honour i.e., Sangeet Natak Akademi Award

for direction in theatre, in the year 2002. BalwantThakur has presented his
presentations in London, Oxford, Denmark, Bangkok, Dubai, Moscow,

Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, Stratford and Dhaka. He also worked as
Secretary, J 8( K Academy of Art, Culture 8d Languages from 1995 to 2003.
He also served on the Board of prestigious institutions like, National
Academy of Music, Dance and Drama, New Delhi (1999— 2003) and North
Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala (1995—2003), and also as an expert for Indian
Council for Cultural Relations, Department of Culture
National Book
Trust and National School of Drama. Presently heading Natrang, Jammu.

MIPHAM OTSAL
Born in I 954 at Leh. Graduated from National School of Drama in I982.
He is the first person from Ladakh who initiated the modern contemporary
theatre movement in Ladakh. An approved drama artist and vocalist of AIR,
Mipham Otsal has directed over 20 plays and has acted in over 50 plays.
He has the credit of. having worked with the prominent theatre directors

like B. V. Karanth, B. M. Shah, Fritz Benwitz, Leon Augusta, Joy Michael.

John Clark, K.V. Subbana. Rudra Prasad Sen Gupt and Astad Debu.

Founder of. Ladakh Theatre Organisation, he conducted various theatre
workshops and training programmes in Leh. Kargil. Srinagar and Jammu.

As playwright he won the State Academy Award as best playwright for ‘NAS
MASAM’ in I 998. Visited France, Switzerland, Sweden, North Korea,
Mongolia, Beijing, Hong Kong and Bangkok as leader of. the Ladakhi
performing artists group.

