al level with
First theatre director. who took the Ladakhi Theatre to Nation
Thousand
the participation of his play “NANGSA OTBUM" (Hundred

sed by
Brilliant Lights) in the 3rd National Theatre Festival— 2001 organi

I”,
National School of Drama, New Delhi. For Natrang he directed “FAND
al
which also featured in the Bharat Rang Mahotsav organised by Nation

School of Drama in 2002 and designed lights for the plays “BAWA HTTO”,
“GHUMAYEE” and “MERE HISSE K1 DHOOP KAHAN HAI’ etc.
Presently working as Senior Drama Instructor in ]& K Academy of Art,

Culture and Languages.
ARVIND ANAND

Born in 1961, a commerce graduate started theatre through a workshop

conducted by ]&K Cultural Academy under Mr. Kavi Rattan in the year, 1979.
Known as one of the most organised actor of Iarnmu stage has acted in 41 plays
in lead roles under the direction of 21 directors including Kavi Rattan, Balwant
Thakur, MK. Raina, Shiv Shastri, Prof. Devinder Singh, Mohan Singh and

Mushtaq Kak.The major plays in which Arvind has acted include, Kala Suraj,
AurTota Bola, Sandhaya Chhaya, Spartacus, Oh! Iamaya Nein..., Ram Shayrn
Jaddu, Kabira Khada Bazar Mein, Jasrna Oden, Uski Jaat, Ialoos, Nagpaash,
Kafan, Sab Rang Moh Bhang, and Aazadi Banam Gulami.
He has the distinction of having won best actor Awards in the State
Academy theatre festivals for the year 1986—87,1987-88 and 1988))

He participated three important theatre workshops in 1984 (]&K Cultural
Academy), 1989 (Dogri Sanstha) and 1993 (NSD 8८ Natrang). As director he
directed plays like Virodh, Tamasha and Neend Kayon Raat Bhar Nahien Aati.
An accomplished and known name of television, Arvind Anand is presently

working on a senior position in L1C of India Ltd.

NEERA] KANT

Born in 1968, Neeraj is a postgraduate in Mass-communication and
Journalism. Acted in over 70 plays which have been staged over 900 times
‘within ]&K and outside including 66 major National theatre festivals. After
)Olning Natrang he took up theatre as a fulltime profession and has been

working as Asstt. Director <Adm.) and also the chief of Natrang Repertory
Company since 1990. After assisting BalwantThakur in the plays ‘Bawa ]itto’.

