‘Mahabhoj’, ‘Ghumayee’, ‘Aap Hamare Hain Kaun’ and
‘Hum Hain Na’ he
directed over twenty plays for Natrang including ‘Bhag
Beta Bhag’, ‘Do
Zaviye’, ‘Girgit’, ‘Hawalat’, ‘Doctor Palta’, Rang Badalti Duniya
', ‘Andher
Nagri’, ‘Baje Dhindhora’, ‘Topian’ etc.

In research field he received junior fellowship from Department of Culture,
Govt. of India for the project “Search for a New Acting Methodology”. He
also has the honour of having worked as coordinator for Sangeet Natak
Akademi, New Delhi in their ‘Young Theatre Workers Workshop’ held at
Mansar, Jammu.
In children theatre and theatre for youth, Neeraj conducted over 35 indepen—
dent theatre workshops for ]&K Academy of Art, Culture 8L Languages,
NZCC, and various educational institutions.

An approved artist of AIR and Doordarshan, he worked with the leading

directors of the country including, Barry John, Rudraprasad Sengupt, M.K.
Raina, Bansi Kaul, Probir Guha, Bhaskar Chandravarkar, Roysten Able, Tapas
Sen, B.R. Bhargava and Adil Hussain.

ANIL TI CKO0
Born in I 970, he completed his Masters in Physics from Iammu University.
Started theatre in I989 with Natrang and acted in over fifty five major plays
as lead actor which included ‘Bawa Jitto’, ‘Mahabhoj’, ‘Ghumayee', ‘Bhoma',
‘Ghera', ‘Comedy ofTerrors’, ‘Suno Eh Kahani’ , ‘Kanjoos’, ‘Fandi’, ‘Holi’,
‘Poster’, Aap Hamare Hain Kaun’ and ‘Sainyan Bhaye Kotwal'. Since last ten

years he is working as Astt. Director <Hony.) and has been given the
responsibility of production department of Natrang. In addition to this he
has also been associated with the projects like ‘Theatre for Mass Motivation’
and Theatre for population education supported by UNESCO and UNICEF.
He is also one of the leading instructor of Natrang Children’s Weekend Club’

In recognition to his contribution as an innovative actor, he received the Junior

fellowship from Department of Culture, Govt. of India. Directed over twenty
plays for Natrang including ‘Damad', ‘Panja’, ‘Natak Nahlen , Khel Ghar है
‘Refund’, ‘Chehre’, ‘Salvaton Meln Sanwad , Baje Dhindhora , and Tankara Ka
.

9

'

'

-

’

(

Ciaana’. His directorial works were much apprec1ated for scenic design and
creative lighting.

