N21th

AlUllllll “lillt‘j'lllrltlt‘llb proud

HARISH KHANNA

Started theatre with the Natrang’s highly acclaimed play ‘Bawa Jitto' in I 986 and
continued till I990 and worked in the plays ‘Chauraha’, ‘Mahabhoj', ‘Poster’ under
the direction of Balwant Thakur. Later joined the National School of Drama in
1990. After graduating in acting from NSD he received the CWIT Award to
Pursue his higher studies in theatre in UK. at the Central School of Speech and
Drama, London. Later he worked with the directors like Prasanna, Anamika Haksar
and Anuradha Kapur. His plays like ‘Sundri’, ‘Make—up’, ‘Making of the Antigini’
were staged all over Europe and USA. Simultaneously he played several roles in
films and television, some of which received National Awards. Govind Nehlani,
MS. Sathew, Muzahir Rahim, Shoojit Sarkar and others were the directors he

worked with. He conducted several workshops for ]&K Cultural Academy, NZCC,
NSD and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation.

N EELU DOGRA
Started her theatre career with BalwantThakur’s ‘Aaj Ki Aurat’ in the year 1993
and later worked in the major productions of Natrang like ‘Bawa Iitto’, ‘Kanjoos',
‘Suno Eh Kahani’, ‘Khel Ghar’, ‘Shesh Nag Da Bhar’ and '15 Gran Gi Swarg Banai

Lo'. She is the first girl from ]&K who made it to the National School of Drama
and specialized in acting (1996—1999). She also worked in the Repertory
company of NSD and performed in the productions like ‘Bhookh Aag’, ‘Raja Ki
Rasoi’, ‘Taajmahal KaTander' and ‘Bhand Dhuai’ directed by Ram Gopal Bajaj,
Mohan Maharishi, ChitranjanTripathi and M. K. Raina respectively. Her role
‘Bobo’ in Ved Rahi's Dogri film ‘Bobo Kadoon Aug' was highly appreciated.
Presently she is pursuing her career in films and theatre.

BHANU GOSWAMI
Born in I 980, Bhanu a born actor started theatre as a child artist in Natrang's
children wing in the year 1993. As young artist he played lead roles in the plays
‘Badalde Rang’, Aap Hamare Hain Kaun’ and ‘Mere Hisse Ki Dhoop Kahan Hai’
under the direction of Balwant Thakur. Before leaving for Delhi where he did
English (Hons) from Hans Raj College (Delhi University), Bhanu performed
with the Natrang repertory in the play ‘Kanjoos’ directed by Adil Hussain and

Harish Khanna. In 200 I he joined National School of Drama and specialized in
acting. Presently based in Mumbai where he is pursuing his career in Television
and Films. Currently he is playing the lead role in the serial ‘Special Squad'. He
also performed an important role in the Hindi feature film ‘Lakshya' and also has
the distinction of having worked in a Hollywood film ‘Searching for Sara’.
1 Ll

