h ildren’s Th L atrc
NAVEEN CHOPRA
Natrang can proudly claim to be one of the pioneer of modern Theatre for
Children in India. The seed was ﬁrst sown as early as I 99 I with the
production of, “Mere Hisse Ki Dhoop Kahan Hai. It was a highly innovative
play, which took up and questioned extremely sensitive, serious and topical
issues, raised by children but affecting all sections of society. Through the
medium of satire and tear jerking laughter the play critiques every walk of life.
Over the years play has continously evolved, taking up and sending powerful,
thought provoking messages, which society needs to address urgently.

This was only the beginning and year after year the Natrang’s children theatre
repertoire continued to grow from strength to strength with successive
productions. Note worthy among them are, ‘Aap Hamare Hain Kaun’, ‘Bhag
Beta Bhag’, ‘Charan Das Chor’ and many more. These plays have been
performed all over the country, innumerable times and in several theatre
festivals. Natrang has consciously evolved extremely new innovative concept in

theatre for children. The aim is to move away from thrusting adult theatre on

children by creating a new language of children’s theatre and a training process
suiting to their aesthetic requirements. This resulted in the birth of
“Children’s Theatre Workshops", since I 992 which has been much sought

after activity. These workshops were primarily production oriented and
culminated in 2004- with Natrang’s mega musical extravaganza of “Hum
Hain Na”, which was a resounding success; the play featured 318 children on
stage and created vibrations in the theatre world. ‘Hum Hain Na’, literally

created history for the children's theatre movement and the popular demand
from children to join Natrang was so overwhelming that in 2004, we started

the “Children’s Weekend Club", an all — year - round activity. The prime
objective of the club was not just production oriented but to address every
the
aspect of cultural activities, music, dance, drama, and even fine arts. In
’s team
process every child is treated as unique and the challenge for Natrang

p and
of instructors is to identify each individual’s special talents and to develo
in themselves.
nurture their skills by building up their confidence and belief
but to develop
The ultimate objective is not just to make them into actors

ers of society.
their overall personalities as meaningful contributors and memb

