Sept. 22, 1985 At 6.30 PM.
'I‘AG'ORE THEATRE CHANDIGARH

_ ३ . टू.

HAYA VADAN
,
Karnad 5

play

.
poses a universal

modern

.dilemma,
दृ

that

गुप्ता
'
८
.4
of \ '

human identity in a world of tangled relationships. When -7 the play opens, stadatta and Kapila are the closest of f'riends—‘one
mind. one heart’, as the Bagavata describes them. :Devadatta is
a man of intellect, Kapila a ‘man of toe body‘. Their— - relations get complicated when Devadatta marries Padmini. Kapila falls
in love with Padmini and she too starts drifting towards him. The
friends kill themselves and in a scene, hilariously comic but at
the same time full of profound dramatic implications, Padrnini

transposes their heads, giving Devadatta Kapila’s body and Kapila
Devadatta ‘s .
The result is a confusion of entities which reveals the ambiguous nature of human personality.
Initially Devadatta—actually the head of Devadatta on
Kapila’s body — behaves differently from what he was before. But
over so gradually he changes to his former self. So does Kapila.
But there is a difference. Devadatta stops writing poetry while
Kapila is haunted by the memories in Devadatta’s body. Padmini
who, after the exchange of heads, had felt that she had the best

of both the men, gets slowly disillusioned. Of the three, only she
has the capacity for complete experience. She understands but

cannot control the situation in which she is placed. Her situation is
beautifully summed up by the images of the river in one of the
choric songs.
A duel that leaves both the friends dead brings the puzzling
story to an end. Neither the death of the lovers nor the subsequent suttee of Padrnini is presented as tragic ; the deaths
serve only to emphasize the logic behind the absurdity of the
situation.
[ .... .. from Introduction to “Hayavadana” (English translation
by Girish Karnad) published by Oxford University Press, Calcutta,
1973.]
CAST/CREDITS
Bhagwat - Karnal Arora, Nata - Anil Monga HayavadanDhirendra Taya] Devadutt-Prithipal Singh Kapil-Prabhat Gupta

Padmini-Bharati Sharma Goddess Kali-Neena AroraDoll-Sanjiv
Bakshi Doll 2-Anil Monga Child-Pratyush Bhatia,
Production Manager Kamal Arora Stage Design Aditya
Prakash, Harish Bhatia Costume Design Aditya Prakash, Usha

Bhatia Lights Mohan Kant, Rajesh Bhatia, Pankaj Berry, Charan
Dass. Makeup Kamal Arora, Pahlad Aggarwal, Raj Kumar
K.P. Sinha. Properties Sanjiv Bakshi, AnilMonga, Dhirendra

Tayal.

Music Design-Atul Sharma. Chorus-Atul Sharma, Jeevan

Lal Sharma. Manoj Sharma, Harish Bhatia. Mira
Bhatia
Direcred by H arish Bhatia.
DIRECTOR’ S INTRODUCTION
(i)
Name
:
Harish Bhatia
(ii) Age : 42 years
(iv) Occupation : Associate Professor in Civil Engineering at

Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. (v) Interesss : Deeply
interested in Theatre and Music. Founder member and Secretary
of “ABHINET” Thea’re Group.

(vi) Previous

Theatre Works

Experience : (a) Notable Directorial Ventures : Dularibaj Mitti ki
Gadi & Adhe Adhure. (b) Major Acting Ventures : Aashadh Ka Ek

Din, Lehron ke Rijhans, Evam Indrajit,

Ant Nahin, Aathwan

Sarg, Dularibai, Sari Raat, Pair Tale Ki Zameen, Aala Afsar,

Mudrarakshasa. Mir-i Ki Gadi, and Aadhe Adhure. (c) Other
activities : Participated in ‘Actor's’ Workshop conducted by Badal
Sircar at Chandigarh in 1978
(d) Special Achievements : The
Play “A'ila Afs 1r” directed by him was invited for presentation
at the Nation ll Festival of Plays under the aegis of Madhya
Pradesh Ki 1 .1 Parished at Bhopal in October, 1980,

. .

