Sept. 25, 1985 At 6.30 PM.
TAGORE THEATRE CHANDIGARH

R A M I. I I. A
SYNOPSIS
Slum-dwellers of different communities are living together
since several years on a big piece of Nazul land in a city. Most
of them are daily wage labourers in different projects, shops
establishments etc. They observe different religious festivals
including
‘L’rs‘
and ‘Ram Lila‘, every year.
This year
during rehearsals of “Ram Lil-t’. they feel that theirresfiurces
and ﬁnances are inadequate. For the purpose oF‘rais-iir’g ﬁnancial
assistance they apprach ‘PUTTAN‘ a residen: of their colony
working as ‘Pa/ledar’ in a cement godown owned by ‘Seth Ram
Sewak" Vais/i‘. Seth vaish is a honorary Magistrate owning various
factories, agencies of cement, kerosene. petrol etc. and is well

known for his religious fundamentalism. Puttan assures slumdwellers to take them to seth for ﬁnancial assistance.

Seth vaish as well as few other rivals of seth had an eye on
the piece of that particular land and had been trying to acquire it
for business purposes. As soon as the slum dwellers approach
the S ;th he readily agrees not only to assist the Ram Lila ﬁnancially but also becomes the chairman of the Ram Lila
committee and proposer to hold Ram Lila in a big way.

The rehearsals for Ram Lila starts with great zeal and enthusiasm.
On the suggestion of Seth, cultural heritage of Ram Lila is distorted and stress is la id on religious fundamentalism.

1. सेठ-प्रभु, दयाल 2. विनोद-राजेन्द्र निगम 3. अनी बहादुर
…अलीज खान 4. बड़े पिपाँत्मात्रमजीऩ सिंह 5. मिजन्धित्रन वजीर 6. दुन्तन
-भनिल शुवला 7. पुत्नन का बाप-हरिकृष्ण अरोडा उर्क हरुलोभइया 8. मौलवी
-मेराज आलमखान 9. काका-राजा अत्ररुयी 10 रश्मि-वेदा राकेश 11. पुत्नन
कोमी-मृदुला नरेन्द्र 12. औरतकू० कल्पनापाण्डेय 13. ठेकेदार-मजय
प्रकाश अवसरों 14. पंडित-मशिवानी पाण्डेय 15. 'व्यक्ति-गी-राकेश 16.
व्यक्ति-नरेन्द्र

17- रहमत-नवल शुक्ल'

18. हव-वि-अजीत श्रीवास्तवा

19. राम लीला मण्डनी 1. निसार अहमद 2. अनूष श्रीवास्तवा 3. अभिजीत
चक्रवदों 4. मुनीश सप्पल 5. महेश शर्मा 6. सिद्धार्थ पकराती 7. प्रभाकर
त्रिपाठी 20. सूत्रधार-. 1 सुभाष गोस्वामी 21. सूत्रधानं-2-रपेश सेनी
22. वादकगण 1. शहनाई-सत् सिकन्दर खों इत्तिरनाब आलम भारती
2 दीमक-गुनान खों 3. हारमोनियम-मास्टर प्यारे
मचपरे
प्रकाश-अरूणत्रिवेदी रूप स-न्या-हेम सिंह वेश-भूषा - मुनीश सप्पल और
रमेश सेनी संगीत निर्देशन-आतम-जीत सिंह सहायक-सुभाष गोस्वामी
मंद्य 'व्यवस्थापक-प्रभाकर त्रिपाठी
प९काल्पना एवं निर्देशन

सूर्य मोहन कुलश्रेष्ठ"
Name : S. M. Kulshreshtha

The young Director Age—32 years) has had his training in
the ﬁeld of stage from Bhartendu Natya Academy in the year
1976-77 and has specialised in direction. He has several plays to
his credit. He has been trying to develop such a theatre form
that could become a bridge of communication, with a purpescful
content and with the borest of theatrical amenities such as sets,
costumes, make up etc. Without closing his eyes at the same

time towards the elem ant of enteratinment, he tries to explore and
exploit the various folk suspects in the his pl tys which make
them more effective and which have deep
society and thus the audience.

A list of irnprotant plays directed by
is large

roots in

the heart of

S. M.

Kulshrcshtha

