Sept. 26, 1985 A'I‘ 6-30P.M.
TAGORE THEATRE, CHANDIGARH

P O S T E R
SYNOPS IS

Everyman alive possesses somewhere within him the spark,
and it need a only a tending to be mad है into a ﬂame. ‘POSTER’
deals with the age old exploitation of the Tribals at the hands of
local forces (Patel) and the Forest Ofﬁer (a representative of
Beauracracy). In fact it is a broad and generalised picture of a
class of society not limited only to the tribals but the Working
Class With its political and ideological ignorance, in general. It
mirrors how the garling force use also Religion as a means of
suppersession .

But there comes a ripple in the inert, faded, dead,

cold and

silent life of the Tribals when out of sheer play and anxiety workers

stick a posters in the factory—a women

had found on the road

somewhere—without understanding what it speaks of. The Patel
discovers it shouts, groans, howls but increases their wages.
POSTER’~ a sign so mysterious-speaking of the ageold supression,
agony and exploitation-becomes a silent friend to the workers.
They watch it attentive, collective, all alone-Was it real? They
look yonder the crimson horizon-radient with new dawn and are
inspired to strive for a bright and hopeful glimpse of a crystal clear
light unawre that great ﬁres lie ahed. Timidly but deeply come
the awakening in souls so silent—a ﬁrst breath of liberty, But
who sends summons from behind the mists—lifting the veil of
darkness ——strangely silent yet speaking a language understood
by thcm alone.
CA S T/CREDIT

पात्र/क्रेडिट
मंच पर
कीर्तनकार-राकेश वर्मा; साथी 1-श्याम मनोहर; साथी 2-अ'निल चौधरी;

पटेल…विजयबनजों; कारिन्दा-सुरेन्द्रतिवारी", 'पोता-कृष्ण' सकीना; क-रिब-राजीव
गोयल; चैती-निष्ठा शर्मा; मजदूर/मजद-रिन-सुभाषिनी बनर्जी; सुजाता वाकी;
सन्तोष गुप्ता, समर चक्रवर्ती, राकेश डग, करूणेश श्रीवास्तव, शक्ति दीक्षित,

सुधीर मुरेया, आशीष मेहरोत्रा, जे० आर० केरकरे, जशवन्त सिंह; फारेस्ट

आफीसर-सरा-रात-धि श्रीवास्तव; सरपंच का लड़का-अतुल्य वर्मा; मंच परे-लेखक
डा० शंकर शष; संगीत- गुलाम दस्तगीर खान; नाल-पं ० सत्य नारायण; प्रकाश-

पीर [लाम: सेट-नौशाद; मंच व्यवरुथा-राकेश डग, संतोष गुप्ता; वेषभूषानिर्मल; रूप-न्या-अनिल श्रीवास्तव; प्रस्तुति सहायक-शुमार संतोष, अतुल्य वर्मा

प्रस्तुतकर्ता डा० सत्य मूर्ति परिक१यनाएवं निर्देशन रवि शर्मा
ABOUT T HE DIRECTOR
RAVI SHAR MA
Ravi Sharma is an energetic free lancer in theatre, having to
his credit theatre workshops in cities like Ujjtin, Dewas, Kota,
Lucknow, N.tgda, Delhi, Bombay and Kanpur. Invited as a
special technical expert for the Kalidas Smtaroh, [979 at Ujjain
he also directed Bliasa’s ‘Balcharitam’—adapted into a musical in
in puppet style for children. He also conducted several Children

theatre—production oriented workshops including a three month
workshop with the children theatre wing of National School of
Dram .1, wi;hout h wing any formal traning in music. he possesses
the sensitivity of a composer.

A creative actor himself he specia-

lised in direction from the National School of Drama and in
short span of p;riod he directed more than two dozar plays.

