MOCHI RAM G U R
A sketch by :
Bankim Chandra Chatterjee
Adapted by .-

Noor Zaheer
Dramatised by :

Sisir Kumar Das
Mochi Ram Gur is the young son of a Millasses merchant. His father is an ordinary
business man who never rises much above a comfortable livelihood. Mochi Ram is a Iurnpane
from childhood who is least interested in the family business. When his father dies his mother
tries to bring him to the right path but he refuses to change. Once his mother dies he is
a free bird and does what he likes best, joins a Jatra party. He does the role of a sakhi
but not proving very good is left by the Jatra dal.
A poor brahrnin finds him crying on the temple steps and takes him home. He tries
to educate him, but though Mochirarn shows no interest in letters he shows extreme prowress
in multiplying figures and in turning a small sum into a big one on paper.
The brahrnin gets him a job in the Deputy Collector's office as assistant to the Peshkar.
The first thing he learns here is to take bribe and he developes it into an art of finesse. After
sometime a peshkars job is advertised. Mochirarn applies and though he has no qualifications
he convinces the British District Magistrate with his flattery. He is selected for the post and
here he makes so much money that he eventually buys a Zamindari.

Mochirarn then comes to Calcutta, drops the title Gur and becomes Rai instead. He
cultivates friends in the higher circles, by bribery, parties and flattery. In Calcutta the people
try to make a fool of him but he with his village cunnings survives these rnenouveres.

Mochiram becomes an important leader of the society and though a goonda in reality
he is called the benefactor of the city. He is also considered a Khandani Zamindar. His wife
is as clever as he himself and helps him in raising stature from lowly peskhara to that of
a Jagkdan

The country is struck by famine. The British rulers take stock of the situation and reach
to the conclusion that Mochirarn is the only one helping the poor and doing charity work. He

is given the title of Rai Bahadur and is made a councellor. When he dies his statue is installed
at a prominent place and yearly celebrations are held to give honour to his memory.

