About the Playwriter

EDWARD AL B E E
Born on March 12, 1928, in Washington, D.C., Edward Albee was adopted as an

infant by Reed Albee, the son of Edward Franklin Albee, a powerful American
Vaudevile producer. Brought up in an atmosphere of great afﬂuence, he clashed early

with the strong—minded Mrs. Albee who attempted to mold him into a respectable
member of the Larchrnont, New York social scene. But the young Albee refused to
be bent to his mother’s will, choosing instead to associate with artist and intellectuals

whom she found, at the very least, objectionable.
At the age of twenty, Albee moved to New York’s Greenwich village where he held a
variety of odd jobs including office boy, record salesman, and messenger for Western

Union before ﬁnally hitting it big with his 1959 play, the Zoo story. Originally
produced in Berlin where it shared the bill with Samuel Beckett’s Krapp’s Last Tape,

the Zoo story told the story of a drifter who acts out his own murder with the
unwitting aid of an upper—middle-class editor. Along with other early works such as
the Sandbox (1959) and the American Dream (1960), The Zoo story effectively gave
birth to American adsurdist drama. Albee was hailed as the leader of a new theatrical
movement and labeled as the successor to Arthur Miller, Tennessee \Villiams, and
Eugene O’neill. He is however, probably more closely related to the likes of such
European playwrights as Becket and Harold Pinter. although they may seem at first

glance to be realistic, the surreal nature of Albee’s plays is never far from the surface.
In a delicate Balance (1960), for example, Harry and Edna carry a mysterious
psychic plague into their best friend’s living room, and George and Marths’s child in
Who’s Afraid of Virgina Woolf? (1962) turns out to be nothing more than a figment
of their twisted, psychological games. In three Tall Women (1994), separate

characters on stage in the first act turn out to be, in the second act, the same
character at different stages of her life.

Albee describes his work as “an examination of the American Scene, an attack on the
substitution of artificial for real values in our society, a condemnation of
complacency, cruelty, and ernasculation and vacuity, a stand against the fiction that
everything in this slipping land of ours is peachy-keen.”
Although he suffered through a decade of plays that refused to yield a commercial
hit in the 1980’s, Albee experienced a stunning success with three Tall Women
(1994), which won his third Pultizer Prize as well as Best Play awards from the New

York Drama Critics Circle and Outer Critics Circle. He had previously won
Pultizers for a Delicate Balance (1996) and (1975). Other award includes an Obie
Award (1960) and a Tony Award (1964). (Source: Moonstruck Drama Bookstore).

