About the Director

B A H A R U L I SLAM
Baharul Islam was born on 10th Oct. 1963 at Rangjuli, Goal Para district Assam.

With his Batchelor of Art degree from Gauhati University, he has studied Dramatics
at National School of Drama with specialization in acting (in 1990). After the

completion of his studies at N.S.D., he formed his own theatre company SEAGULL
in 1990 with the initiative taken by some colleagues and Bhagirathi. The obvious
aim was to improve the existing style and forms of the Assamese theatre. As a central
body, Seagull has it’s own several creative wings as Repertory company, Seagull
theatre Academy which provides a one year course in Dramatics, specific wing of

working with spastic children and publication wing. Apart from this, it also
organizes theatre festivals and conducts workshops for youth and children. He
designed and directed many plays like Yayati, Saraighat, Abhimoinnyu, Jatra, Simar
Sipare, Guwahati—Guwahati etc. which were performed at different festivals of great

repute like Bharat Rang Mohatsava, EZCC, Sangeet Natak Academy festival, Prithvi
festival, PDA festival 86 Rangayan festival etc. He has a four—year experience in
Mobile theatre as an actor and director with different groups is Assam. Six plays
including King Lear and Oedipus the king are credited to his name during this
period. He designed and directed a play Madala gitti in Kannada language for

Ninasam Repertory. He has so far performed almost 1200 shows with 16 plays. He
acted in Heer Ranjha-the play participated in Tara Art, London in 1991—1992. A
part form this he has acted numerous Tele Films, Serials 86 Feature Films in different
languages including Assamese, Hindi ८3८ Kannada and Directed an Assamese Feature

Film, A short film produced by Girish Karnad; and produced and directed The
Dhulia and Puppet Theatre in Assam — a documentary; and Nishant, a
Commissioned serial DDK. He composed, designed and directed Mr. Costumewala,
The Nature ८3८ Three Brothers for spastic children of Sishu Sarothi.

As writer he wrote the plays-Jatra Apeksha and Simar Sipare and has composed
many articles on threatre published in various journals and news papers. A book
EKANTO MONERE on theatre, published in 2005.
He is conferred MANOHAR SINGH SMRITI PURASKAR 2005
multifaceted contribution to the Art of Theatre.

for his

