pBNIEEiOPLUS

H Y DE R AB A D

THE HINDL’ ० Thursday, September 24, 2015

‘ l‘he theatre of movement
N 2’
Ahead of his performance in the city,
celebrated dancer-choreographer Akram
Khan .talks about his Kathak-inspired
modern vocabulary
CH lT RA SW A MI N AT HA N
light cardigan in blue, a
blue T-shirt, blue trou-

sers and a blue cap, you
would guess he is a baseball player if you passed him by in
the street. It’s only when Akram
Khan stylistically throws his hands
in the air and almost leaps off the
couch to explain a movement that
you are convinced why he is what
he is. It is hard to believe when
Khan says he was forced into
dance. His mother wanted him to
be initiated into the culture, since
he was born and brought up in
London as a second—generation
Bangladeshi
immigrant.
“My
mother herself was very keen to
learn and perform Kathak, but her
prominent mathematician father
didn’t let her do so.”
His dance training began at age
three with folk forms, and by sev-

वें en, he had moved to Kathak under
है
है
1
i

Pratap Pawar. “I think he is one of
the ﬁrst to have attempted Flamenco-Kathak in the Eighties. His
style of integration was beautiful.
To me, he was an inspiration, not
as a dancer, but as someone who

helped me ﬁnd my identity in Bri: tain as an outsider. It was only

speaks to him.
“It talks back to me. It says,
‘hey, you make me work so
much. You will now feel the
pain’,” smiles Khan, who suf-

fered a tear in his Achilles tendon in 2012. “I was in a lot of
pain. But as dancers, we are con—

stantly in denial about it. I kept
saying, ‘I will be ﬁne’. I think in
the next ﬁve years, I will retire. I
want to invest more in choreographing for youngsters. Especially after the birth of my
daughter Sayuri and son Kenzo,
I want to focus on the _fu_ture. I
also want to give more time to
my Kathak dancer—Japanese
wife and my mother, who are my

strengths. After my ﬁrst marriage to Shanell Winlock, a
South African dancer, broke, I
learnt a bitter lesson — to stop

being a workaholic, and that if
you want to be one, not to get
married,” laughs the celebrated
soloist, with an enviable body of

work for his Akram Khan Company and for high-proﬁle collab—
orators, including top ballerina
Sylvie Guillem, sculptor Anish
Kapoor, writer Hanif Kureishi,
composer Steve Reich, ﬁlmmak-

er Danny Boyle, singer Kylie Mi—
nogue and more. “I like to be a
student. I learn about myself
through their eyes, when work—
habharata. He revisits the epic in ing with such geniuses. You
his production Until the Lions, think maybe it will rub off on
which will premiere in January you.”
His is an interesting trajectonext. He began training hard, almost 10 hours a day for a year, in ry. An exciting journey too —
his father’s garage. His parents from being nobody in school to
were concerned about his growing being recognised as the winner
obsession. Theydidn’t want him to ofa disco competition with a Mimake dance his calling. He ﬂed to chael Jackson "I‘hriller’ routine.
५ Leicester, to study Martha Graham When his classmates and teachand MerCe Cunningham and dis- ers said ‘Well done, Akram’, he
cover Pina BauSch. And then came was delighted they knew his
up with a distinctive, fascinating name. “I always felt intimidated
physical language all his own. “My to speak in front of others who
world is contemporary, but I take seemed so intelligent. I ﬂunked
into it everything I know about my A-levels thrice. Suddenly, I
Kathak. In the classical form, there realised my body could be the
is a code, a language, and you con- way I communicate. In some
nect your personal journey to way, I began to match up to my
them. In contemporary, you are mathematical genius grandfa—
yourself, naked emotionally,” he ther, since I excelled in patsays, explaining how his body now terns,” says Khan.
३ much later that I took dance seri2 ously,” says Khan, who at 14 toured
. the world with Peter Brook’s Ma-

