(

2

)

The Parvatiya Kala Kendra began its second phase by adapting the folk ballads
of Kumaon Er Garhwalto contemporary stage. Rajula—Malushahi was the
first attempt of its kind. Shri Brijandra La | Shah, who is widely familiar with
the background culture and folk traditions of that region, prepared the first
script which, however, covered only half of the ballad. The script was in
Kumaoni. and was produced in an operatic form. The first performance of
this production. was given in 1980 at Kamani to packed houses.
Encouraged by the tremendous response we received, we decided to present
the full ballad. It was produced 8 presented in 1981. This production was a
turning point in the life of the Parvatiya Kala Kendra. it was remarkable in the
sense that for the first time a production of this dimension was mounted
capturing the essence of the cultural heritage of the people of Uttarakhand.
It was also remarkable in the sense that stalwarts of Delhi stage like Vinod
Nagpal and V. M. Badola performed in the production alongwith many fresh
entrants to theatre and another eminent theatre personality, Shri B. M. Shah
directed it. The script, as of earlier, was that of Shri Briendra Lal and musical
score was that of Mohan Upreti. Since this event the Kendra did not looked
back. Every year it has taken up a new ballad of the region and given it a
dramatic form.

The wide spectrum of the folklores of the

region

that have

been covered are given blow in the resume of activities.

A RESUME OF ACTIVITIES
1968
1969
1969

1969-1971

1971
1972-1976

1976

.

Founded as a Registerd Society.
Uttarakhand Folk Song and Dances, DCM, New Delhi.
Repeat Performance, Birla Mills, Delhi.
Uttarakhand Folk Songs and Dances, AIFACS Hall, Inaugurat
ed
by Late Smt. Indira Gandhi
Repeat Performances at Rashtrapati Bhawan, Mavlan
kar Hall,
Gandhi Darshan, USSR Culture Centre, IMA
Auditorium, INT
Hall and Doordarsan.
|.C.C.R. sponsored performances in Sikkim.
Repeat Performances for Delhi-based Uttara
khand people at
Rarnakrishnapurarn, Lodi Colony, Talkato
ra Stadium, Aiwane
Galib, Red Fort (Kumaoni Battalion
Ill-Regiment), Tin Murti
Bhawan, Mavlankar Hall, TV recording
for New Year Programme
Repeat Performances for Uttarakhand
people based in Bombay,
Jaipur, Kotdwar, Rishikesh and Muradabad.
Uttarakhand .Folk Songs _ and Dances
Kamani Hall ,
r aced b
the then presrdent of India Late Shri ,
Fakruddin Ali Algmed on
the occasron of Jawahar Lal Nehru
Birthday celebration.
I

