R AM LILA
Sita Haran was the first portion of Ramlila, in Uttarakhand style that
was attempted by Parvatiya Kala Kendra in 1981. In 1983 it was followed by
portion extending from ‘Pushpa-Vatika’ to Sita-Swayamvar’. Another attempt
was made in 1985 when many portions of Ramlila were presented.

The Kendra have had the occasion to present these portions both in
India and abroad, and year befor& last in 1988, ‘P uspa-Vatika’ was presented in Pyongyang. Beijing and Bangkok

The present effort to present all

the major episodes in three parts, is aimed at developing further its traditional
design ia respect

of all its presentational aspects

especially music, acting

costurns und stage - techniques Owing to lack of funds it
presented in an open air theatre.

The current

practice

of

could

not

be

various Ramlila

groups to build a temporary proscenium theatre in the open air, is not in
keeping with its ortginal form, which combines a proscenium stage with a
rectangular actrnge area open in three sides for the audience to sit. The
Kendra hopes to do it in future.

Ramiila of Uttarakhnd is mainly operatic in charecter. All the characters

develop the story through a plethora of songs sung in all kinds of musical
forms ranging from classical ragas to bhajans, gazals, quawalles etc, and
surprisingly, no indegeno us folk tunes a e used The languages used ranges
from Braj to Khari Boli, Hindi & Urdu. It has copiously drawn upon the rich
musical repertoire of north-Indian traditional theatre like Nautanki, Maach,
Jatra and Rasaa. Ramcharitmanas is the base of the Ramlila, but songs

Hindi Urdu and Hindustani have replaced most of the original verses
Manas leading it a native theatrically.

in

of the

The main objective of Parvatiya Kala Kendra, taking up this venture is

to preserve, as also to creatively enrich the original structure. Another objective is to improve it in all it presntational aspects so as to enable the modern

audience to enjoy its musicality and old time theatrical charm. the Kendra is
confident that by making sustained etforts for

a sustained period of time

Ramlila can acquire the status of a real National Opera.

Ramlila in its present form provides an answer to the present day conversy about tradition and modernity. The answer is that something that is

beautiful has the inherent quality of being enternal, transcending the limitations ef time and space If the story is beautiful, it is bound to appeal to all
classes of people of all times past-present and future.

