Programme Notes
Serenata Notturna in D Major KV 239
The “serenata notturna” (“nocturnal
serenada”) in only 3 movements and
unique in its instrumentation was

written by Mozart during the carnival

period in Salzburg in 1776. The first
performance was probably played in
two large adjacent rooms in which two
string orchestras of differing
composition were stationed. The first
consisted of a string quartet that played
alone, where the Violoncello had been

replaced by a double-bass and the
other consisted of a normal string
orchestra with independently
controlled kettle-drums. Mozart had
evidently taken as model the principle
of the Baroque “concerto grosso” with

of the voices in the middle register
result in a delightful and intellectual
completion which has to be more felt
than logically derived.
Divertimento in E Flat Major KV 1 13
Mozart composed two versions of this
Divertirnento. The older version for 2
violins, viola, bass, 2 clarinets and horn

was composed on the occasion of the
archduke‘s wedding in Milan in 1771.
Six years later Mozart gave this version
the style of a concert piece by adding 2
oboes, English horns and bassons so
that the title became justified. The first
and last movements breathe a robust
grace, while in the andante the clarinet
competes with the violin in the art of
expressive legato playing.

its alternations of solo and tutti. Quite

in the traditional manner the serenata is
opened with the quaintly humorous
march, into which the second orchestra

enters quite roughly and crudely and its
occasional fanfare motifs and dottednote rhythms cannot disguise the fact
that the movement certainly claims

recognition as a symphony. The shortlong “Lombardy” style of a dotted-note
rhythms dominates the minute, while
the soloists alone play the trio.
Concerto in A Major KV 622
This Clarinet Concerto owes its
existence to Mozart’s friendship with
the famous clarinettist Anton Stadler. To
ascertain analytically the origin of the
soft wistfulness and unusual
instrumentation of the concerto (solo
clarinet, 2 ﬂutes, 2 bassons, 2 horns,

strings) is difficult. The profusion of
themes in the intimate first movement

Symphony in A Major KV 201
Composed in 1774 this work of Mozart
was found worthy of a repeat
performance 11 years later in Vienna.
:Ihrough the liberation of the individual
parts, the imitative stimulation of the
movement’s form and the thematic
relationships between the separate
movements, the work places on record
the renunciation of the Italian
symphonies concerned only with tonal
beauty. In the first movement the
principal subject with its striking octave
jump and the sequences is repeated in
canon form, the subject of the slow

movement (the damping of which
through the strings playing “con
sordino” is cancelled only in the last
four measures) breathes with its

double-dotted notes almost a baroque
spirit. Echo effects gnark the minuet,

anath finale With its octave figure
(which dispenses with a solo

candenza), the strophic pattern of the
poetic adagio romanze and the lucidity
of the rondo with its melodic line
tending to the archaic, the irregular

links u withﬂthe beginning ofthe
y, rev ष्ठकिपां ' ‘s
‘
LlanC’ll हैं., [हुँहुँटेगृ thd
odzrm’ﬁni on the
symphony is brought to a brilli nt end.

periodicity and the romantic colouring
'

.
"a
‘ ._.-——-» श्लीष्ण
r

