B A L L A D 8 OF U T T A R K H A N D
Since 1980, the Parvatiya Kala Kendra has been
engaged in the task of presenting stage adaptations of the
folk ballads of Uttarakhand. RAJULA-Mr-XLUSHAHl the
first of such attempts in 1980 was followed by
GANGNATH - a ritualistic Jagar style folk tale in 1981,
AJULA-Bﬂ-FAUL-apetriotic ballad in 1982, episodes
presentations in Uttarakhand
from RAMLILA- Hindi
style in 1982 8 1983 (later presented at Bhopal 8-

Ayodhya), MAHABHARATA - a Hindi presentation based
on Pandav Jagar style of Garhwal in 1984, RASIKRAMAUL a romantic ballad in 1985, J EETU BAGDWAL a folk bal'ad in Garhwal in 1986. HlL JATRA which
currently is going on board will be the eighth such attempt.

The programme of presenting Uttarakhand folk ballads
forms a part of the general objectives of the PARVATIYA

KALA KENDRA ever since its inception in 1968, to
popularise and promote the folk cultural heritage of central
sub Himalayan region among the contemporary audiences.
This activity has been a continuation and extension of the
Kendra's efforts to preserve and popularise the folk-music
and folk-dance traditions of the region.

On the
attempts, as
transforming
PARVATIYA

basis of the audience response to these
also to the theatrical experience acquired in
these ballads into operatic versions, the
KALA KENDRA is moving in the direction of

re of
laying down a solid foundation of a distinct theat
way to
Uttarakhand. This could also possibly be the only
save these ballads from extinction.
The Kendra has been acting as a link between the art
n
of the ballad singers of Uttarakhand and the moder

sing
generation dwelling in big cities and towns. Bypas
ipate in
on this art to the young boys and girls, who partic
the
these presentations, the Kendra manages to preserve
task is
cultural wealth of Uttarakhand. Although the
hedifficult, needing considerable financial support, nonet
alone
less, the go 3| is quite inspiring. It is this inspiration

years
that has kept the Kendra's team going for several
despite heavy odds.
MOHAN UPRETI
P re si d e n t

