Why One Museum is Fighting Return f Nazi ‘Looted’ Artworks
The Gennan m

andJulius Falk Goldschmidt explicitly
purchasedthe collection inorder toﬂip
.4 '9'?" it for a proﬁt Theyhad the bad fortune
It’s hard toimagine anyone wanting to of buying itfor 7.5 millionreichsmarks
ﬁght the return of artworkstolen from just weeksbefore Wall Street’scrash of
Jews during the Holocaust, even mu- 1929 triggered a global economic de
seum academics who have an interest pression. Suddenly, ﬂipping wildly exv
pensive religious art objects was a
in keeping the works in their collecdiceyproposition
tions.
The dealers then approached the
The most recent case to make headlines is the ﬁght over the so-called Prussian state In 1935, after prolonged
Guelph Treaure, a medievalhorde of negotiation with state ofﬁcials, including HermannGoering, the consortium
religious objects. The disputemade its
way from German courts to the US, sold theremaining42works for 425 mil»
lion
reichsmarks, netting about a 1090
where on October 30 the defendant, the
Prussian Cultural Heritage loss on their initial purchase. The
Guelph Treasure has since stayed in
Foundation, ﬁled a motion to (115111129
the collection of thePrussian stateand
It’s beena longbattle, butbothsides are
is currently on permanent display at
deeply entrenched Here’s why:
the Museum of Decorative Arts in
Berlin
The Art
The GuelphTreasure isa collection of

James Tanny

है

r '

82 medieval German ecclesiastical art

The श्या Claim

pieces, most of which are encrusted
withprecious stonesand made of some
combinationof gold, silverandcopper
The collection was ﬁrst housedat the
cathedral in Braunschweig and formallypassed into thepossession of the
princely house of Guelph in 1671. The
objects were sold in 1929 to a consortium led by four Jewishart dealers.

Almost immediately after the Nazis
came to power, theypassed repressive
LaWS impedingJews’ ability to conduct
business. In this environment, Jews
were often forcedto sellpossess ionsfor
signiﬁcantly lessthan valueinorder to
survive. In this prewar climate, three
members of the consortium emigrated; the fourth died in 1937.
The Washington Conference
Principles of Nazi Conﬁscated Art— a

Thedealers, ZachariasHackenbroch,
Isaac Rosenbaum, Saemy Rosenberg,

ii Ioorn ber g

द्वा८द्वा८८८८६८--बेख१बब

The Guelph Cross and a 12th century dome reliquary
set of guidelines created in 1998 that all
German museums have agreed to follow — dictatethat any art obj ect soldby
Jews for less than its fairvalue during
this period (January 30, 1933, through
1945) isacandidatefor restitution This

period includes the Guelph Treasure,
whose worth is now estimated at $250
million
‘
In 2008, descendants of the consortium members ﬁled a restitution claim
against the Prussian Cultural Heritage
Foundation, a staterun foundationthat
oversees Berlin’s artcollections. Legal
wrangling went on for four years, at

which point both partiesagreed to arbitration hearings. The commission
ruled against the descendants, saying
that the consortium got a fair-market

This is not a clearcut case. Hermann
Parzinger. president of the Prussian
Cultural Heritage Foundation. argues
that German museums have a moral
obligation to investigate every restitution claim thoroughly. In the last 20
years. his organisation has conducted
internal reviews and fielded approximately 50 restitution claims. About
"98०० of the time. we restituted the
works," he said.
In the case of the Guelph Treasure. he
said, “The basic point is that no nonJewish art seller could have gotten a better price when you see the situation at
the time." “They say that in 1935 it
wasn’t possiblefor there to be a fair exchangebetween Goering andthe Jews.‘ ‘
Parzinger continued, "that there was
this fat, disgusting Hermann Goering
sitting at the table facing these poor art

dealers, butthis wasnot the case. "

price Farfrom sellingunderduress, the
commission stated,the consortiumhad
been attempting to unload the Guelph
Treasure for years. A year later. the
heirs ﬁleda restitution claim in the US.
“Look, in our view, there really isn‘t
any question that this was a fair-market

transaction," said Nicholas O'Donnell.
a lawyer representing the heirs. “It‘s
absurd to argue that they had anything
close to bargainingpower. "
ज्ञात्वा. … ८

WhatCanes Next
Now that the Prussian Heritage
Foundation has filed its motion to dis
miss. attorney O’Donnell. has until the
end of January to ﬁle opposition. At
that point. the Prussian Heritage
Foundationwill have an opportunity to
reply: only then will a judge decide
whether the case goes forward.
bloombergcom

,/'

