कालचक्र के साहसिक प्रयास... ...
राजधानी के प्रसिद्ध बंगला शौकिया रंगमंच मण्डली कालचक्र ने .... ..'जबाब चाई'

'मोहन-जो-दावा' तथा गिरीश कन्नड़ के 'तुगलक' का बंगला रूपान्तर मंचस्थ किया । .... ..अरुण
राय के नाटक है-जबाव चाईथा ..॰.एक पात्रीय नाटक है--- ...अज़य चटजों के निर्देशन में दर्शकों को

ऐसा जान पड़ता है कि मंच पर अनेक पात्र हैं । नायक के जीवन के विभिन्न- पहलुओं को यहीं
सजीवता के साथ प्रस्तुत किया है ।...सब मिलाकर यह एक पात्रीय नाटक बडा जटिल तजुर्बा था ।

…- जनयुग

Kaal Chakra staged three short Bengali Plays at the

Fine Arts Theatre.

The ﬁrst,

Naroker Adhishwar or the “Overlord of Hell” attempts to stress the petty self-interests
dominating our elections. The performance was marked by good team work and accomplished acting. Arun Roy’s Jabaab Chai (we want an answer) a one-character play about
a displaced peasant from East Pakistan. Arun Banerjee who acted ‘the Man' is certainly
an actor with considerable range and control and he was able to sustain interest. The last
play Bhajo Kerosene bv Rajat Ghosh is a humourous satire on people in a queue for
Kerosene. It has sum amusing situations and characters. The Production of all the three
plays was tight and smooth.

—STA'I‘ESMAN

Dipak Sen’s Ranlila produced by Kaal Chakra and presented at the Fine Arts
Theatre last week, falls into a deliberate design which also makes it the season’s most
tantalising play. Its anti-heroic base is clothed in a from which itself provides the enter-

tainment as it prods and arouses both shock and humour.

With skilful direction and loving

care to details Ajoy Chatterjee injected drama in every moment of the play. His grasp of
the characters and situations had clarity and imagination which made the serio~comic
happenings ﬂow with spontaneity and in the process even the ordinary characters seemed
to acquire a distinct identity. If it also registered the ﬁerce chemistry of passion by which

that woman became the only woman, it was because of the potentially powerful actress
Minoti Chatterjee who with her outbursts of hatred and bitterness interspersed with frivolity
demonstrated her range and command of the basic emotions. Acting was of uniform excellence and to pick only few, Priyabrata Roy as the harassed but hopeful Yatra propereitorwriter made an instant success of his serio-comic role. Pratip Bhowmlk as the toothpaste
hawker-cum-Lakshman,—was even one up and practically brought the house down. Ajoy
Bhattacharya’s light-dasign suited the mood and temper and Monti Adhikary provided
appropriate music.
—H I N DU STH AN TIMES

