JUGNI
P RO LO GU E

Anwar and his friends, Amir and Mani Ram are thrilled by folk songs and

dances they see in their villages but the orthodox elders not only disapprove
of their passion, they beat Anwar and Amir to punish them for this passion
which is considered degrading, But the more Anwar is exposed to folk songs
and dances the greater is his determination to dig out and spread folk music
so that this treasure is not lost for ever. Under the leadership of Anwar
the three of them set out to do the research for which they live the life of
villagers taking part in their joys and sorrows. That is how they are able to win
their conﬁdence and could listen to the folk melodies even from women who
would never open their mouths before males and at that strangers.
Jugni is a symbol of a Village woman who lives a life of separation. Like a
ﬁreﬂy she alternately lives in a world of light and darkness. For her, life is a
constant stretch of pining and waiting. In her loneliness her soul wanders from
place to place as if one day she will settle down cosin with her dream realised.
ACT I
Scene 1

When the play Opens the kind villagers, including the research trio, are
building a hut for her. Jugni, the wanderer, gratefully accepts this temporary
abode. The surroundings as ever remind her of her lover. The well reminds
her of a couplet :
“Come to the well, my love

Help me lift my pitcher and exchange a few words with me”

ﬁrst
The couplet brings back those moments when she met Iqbal for the
.
heaven
h
sevent
the
to
ﬂy
to
time and the two hearts were thrilled and wanted
d
That was a vision. She opens her eyes and sings “My love ! you promise
death.”
to return soon but ages have passed. Separation from you is just living
When she sees 'I‘ahira who could have been her own childhood image
cry my doll,
playing with her doll and talking to her so philosophically. “Don’t
s will
brother
your
out,
run
if your clothes are wet and colours that are not fast
bring new clothes for you”.

