But Jugni is not prepared to accept this situation.

The colour of her love

will never run out.

How envious she feels when her young friend Zaqiya, full of exuberance,
dreams of having her betrothed under her thumb and warns Jugni that Iqbal
might have married some one else and forgotten her. She refuses to believe her
and blesses her for a happy married life. She makes her spin her dreams for the
future on the spinning wheel, when Zaqiya’s friends take her away Jugni’s
courtyard is so lonely.
“When will you come, sit and smoke under this tree and brighten up this

courtyard”.

Anwar and his friends have been keeping track of all that is happening in the
village and making note of songs Jugni's soul has been weaving. An inkling
that her secrets are being exposed to others makes her desert the place. She sets
out for new pastures in search of her love and happiness.
Scene 2

The rest of the ﬁrstpart is a ﬂash back of young Jugni with her friends
swinging with happiness. They make fun of Shammo who is married to a
conservative Pandit and is now happily carrying on with Sohel. This phase is
all fun. How intoxicating is the atmosphere ! Jugni’s few moments of happiness
with Iqbal are so rich, that they leave a mark behind for the rest of her life.
She begs Iqbal never to leave her alone. But these are ﬂeeting moments. What
fun ! A call from the bangle seller and friends get together. Inspite of disapproval of the mother-in-law and the sister-in-law they deck themselves with
bangles and want to Show themselves to their lovers.

Jugni has given birth to a son. The village women celebrate the occasion
by singing lullaby to the newly born.

These happy moments are short lived. Menfolk are working hard in the
ﬁelds away from their hearth and home. Rains fail. Every one in the village is
panic stricken. Fear of starvation and ruin grip every one. Many men
are
forced to leave the village in search of livilihood. They lament
that the future
has a heap of snakes piled up before them.

The women folk gape into the distance and beg their
loved ones to change
the direction of the bullock cart and come back.

The research trio feels so helpless.
broken hearts”.

“Broken glass can be joined but not

