Nadir Shah
The play depicts the time and life of an era. The Mughal empire so
laboriously built by Babar reached the pinnacles of glory under Akbar. This is
one of the most interesting and meaningful period in lndian history. But by the
time Aurangzeb died it had lost its elan or the very basis of its existence. It was
the collective failure of a system which refused to learn from history. As George
Santayana says: “Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to
repeat it.”

Muhammad Shah Rangila represented a time that had outlived its life.
So it is futile to pick, analyse, or to use the popular phrase psychoanalyse his
brain or actions. He was the victim of his environment and thus merely the
instrument of his and his regime’s destruction. And that is what interested the
author. How an empire that rode the high heavens fell into the abysmal depths
of misery and oblivion.

Nadir Shah inﬂicted the blow that ultimately crushed the Mughal Empire.

But as Sir Jadu Nath Sarkar says : “The Persian conquerer merely revealed to
the world a fact accomplished long before. He broke the spell under which men
had been regarding a gorgeously dressed corpse as a strong man.”

At the time of the invasion Muhammad Shah was occupied in his pursuit
of women, song and dance.
The king-makers were as usual busy in intrigue,
plot and counter-plot. The nobility and the courtiers had no time for anything

else except to make their fortunes by means fair or foul—the f'ouler the better—
and to gaze at stars to follow the one that looked brightest at the moment. Fortune-tellers and sooth-sayers ﬂourished. The mass of the people counted for

nothing.

They groaned under injustice, corruption and oppression.

All this

while ominous Clouds were gathering at the north-west frontier ready to burst

out in a deluge that was to submerge Mughal India.
Delhi,
When Nadir Shah had captured Lahore and was ready to race on to

the court at Delhi at last woke up from a long slumber.
man pitching forward drunkenly.

But it was a yawning

course
The inevitable happened. The Mughal army was destroyed in the
Mughal
The
other.
of just a f'gw hour-3, In fact between one prayer time to the

