and are sullen. The king’s mother cries in anguish and exhorts the people to
accord him a welcome.
Seerie 2

Nadir Shah comes in all his glory as a victor. The golden keys of- the
treasury are handed over to him. He terrorizes the nobles to part with their
treasure. In the name of brotherhood he exchanges his turban with Mohd.
Shah’s and thus is in possession of the koh-i-noor. The court. is stunned-.- In a
gesture of great contempt he orders singing and dancing. Nadir flings jewels
on the court singer. But he is bewitched by the young dancer whom he wants
to carry away with him. Meanwhile the news comes that his soldiers have been
killed by the local people in an uprising. Nadir Shah lets loose terror and orders
general massacre.
Scene 3

Delhi is burning. No one is spared. Women are dishonoured and mutilated.
Hundreds of them stab themselves or jump into wells to save their honour. But
the court glitters. Nadir demands the marriage of his son to a Mughal princcss.
Munnawar is indignant and rebels against this state of affairs. He heaps insults
and shame on the servile nobles and even confronts the king in a reckless manner
without caring for his life. He asks him what cruel joke is this when pyres are
burning and graves are being dug for the innocent victims, the palace is glittering

with million lights amidst fabulous festivities ? Mohd. Shah orders his death.
Nishat is heart broken and has nowhere to turn to. Nishat knows that, tomorrow
is Nadir’s departure and she will be compelled to accompany him. She is

desperate. She is ordered to dance which she does as if defying the world. Nadir
Shah returns the Mughal crown to Mohd. Shah amidst drinking, singing and
dancing.

It is time for him to depart,

His soldiers are busy removing all

valuables from the court. Nishat takes poison from her ring. Nishat’s death
epitomizes the death of the great city of Delhi. It symbolises not only the
tragedy of a lover, but the tragedy of a country.
On the immortal river Jamuna a boatrnan plying his boat laments the
cruel hand of fate that has mutilated Delhi.

0 Delhi you didn’t deserve this devastation
Once upon a time you were the heart of a lover...
There will be an interval of 10 minutes after the Ist Act

