veracity
SAIF HYDER HASAN‘s
plays narrated the
unfulfilled love stories
of Guru and Geeta
Dutt and Sahir
Ludhianvi and Arnrita
Pritam. He shares
with SHRABASTI MALLIK
that the pathos of
such relationships and
the purity of such
stories appeal to him
the most

_ Colours
1n the sky
The eprsorlmllytiutlt
play, to Phrr Basanl A
86
laments the ordinary
folk of Pakistan who die
’
unable to protect their
ideilllfl. culture and 1

values By U'mt, K BMlEDFE

Priki .tans पिंणाब्जाणा
णाणादृ wuh l’
भाणा anti murmn. if

t, i :imfa .m

A
tories a the cosmos I\' filled
Swith zillions of them. Some can
soothe a broken soul; some can
tickle the funn bone whilesortie can
propel one to t iiui Time .ut- । 1८५
which end on .i li.ipp\ llttll‘ .llltl nth
a which leave readers With a not शा
pleasant feeling. Then there are stories
which appear cheerful and happy but
Hep inside are tainted with pangs of
sorrow —- stories of unrequited love
much like that of Amrita Pritam and
Sahir Ludhianvi and of an unhappy
marital life like Guru Dutt and Gecta
Dutt.
We know oftheir stories from the
numerous articles that were written
about them and also from the letters
that were exchanged between them.
Onecan call them star- crossed lovers
and recently two of them became the
subject of director Saif Hyder Hasan's
plays titled Ek Mulaqai and Gnrdish
Mei" Tame. Ek Muluqat. "loosely
based" on the life. relationship and the
ldve — unrequited love — between
poet Sahir Ludhianvi and Amrita
Prltam. has recently completed 25
shows.Yet the emotions remain fresh
tothe director. Gardish Meir: Taare, on
theother hand.reminded theaudience
ofthe relationshi that GumDutt and
Geeta Dutr s
— conﬁned in marital bonds.
'Both the pla s are based on the
real story oftlieir ' es. Yes, the setting
is fictitious and a few alterations were
made in the script so as to not direct] pin—point the real characters. said
the director.

-..

. < . r. t.

y.

li l 1 t - r
it. charms particularly during thel rr.pfestival»
३"
1१,1७३.. New Year. Valentine} Dav. Mela chm.who}?
ital" lili”

marital life '\L('flfdlllg 1० 11.1९८11,
' e play l\ an डकाशाऱम्पा of the
theme ofunfulfrlled love lust because
peo I: are married ८1०८३ not necessari v "‘9’!" that thev twp m h-

Win Inwas. thin

lrll

and undefined
13k Miiluqriiil opens
on a cold Winter's night
and the setting is on the
terrace of Pritam's house
in Delhi. She receives a
trunk call from Bombay,
makin her wonder who
it can e. as she doesn't
know anyone out there
except Ludhianvi. Before
she could answer. he .
appears in front of her
and they engage in a
conversation which
reﬂects soulfully the deeper relationship that theyshare. Hasan gives atwist
to the tale at the end. where Irnroz.
Pritams illustrator trier. informs her
that the trunk c was to inform her
of Ludhianvi's death. The play is adelicate tapestry of the emotional graph
of two creative people. who never tied
themselves down in earthly relationships of commitment. ﬁxities and
expectations. They were fluid and

flowed into eath rtlllr'l'\
being tomplelely. prlsslnll
ater and Wlit)lt'-Ile‘i‘irlt‘tll\
beyond any definition
Prltams eart ly reality wax
Imroz. whose voice we listen
to in the background. But
her soul communion was
with Saltir. And never was
there acollision of affections.
though the structure
of the play is primarily that
of conversation. there is
more than meets the eye.
The conversation that they share is
ripping and full of moments that are
unny and moving. Add to that the
occasional shuyuri and poems byboth
and the ex termini! of presenting
Ludhianvi's amous old songs in new
tunes — the lay acquires a disti itct
character wi poetic ecstasy.
Interestingly Shekhar Simian was
not Hasan's choice but was suggested
to him by DceptiNaval. “When I was

making rhv \c‘ripl i had Deepti in
numl sht- loved the ~cript and suggest»
erl Suntan and l ft‘iiltsttl that no one
i nuld he hetier.‘ he said.
Suntan. whostarted his career With
l he SRCC repertmre. said that he was
ll.ippv to be back to the city. “I was gift
etl Sahir Ludhianvi‘s Pardihaiyan by
my uncle when l was young. It was
beyond me that I would portray him
on stage some day." he said.
Unfulfilled love stories appeal to
Hasan. “There is a certain purity
about such stories and I am overwhelmed by the entire notion of
unfulﬁlled love." he confessed. quite
candidly. The fact that we. Indians.
are in love with love stories waswhat
gave him that conﬁdent push to go
ahead and work on these plays.
Stepping into the lives of Guru
and Geeta Dutt were actors Arif
Zakaria and Sonali Kulkarni. The
narrative ofthe play gave the audience a glimpse of t eir tumultuous

1,1'

[it

t

t

Cilitilltilix 1८"
«1
eta
11५1।."1१11९'11८11 .v r hnband. expca
riencerl thepangs n: it "jlflllCd love."
Several 111०1'1८२1
been made
on then story and 3 int have been
spoken. too. So when we asked about
why he chose their storyt the direc»
tor promptly replied. 'Why not
them” So much has been said and
Willie" about them zilr adv. so. i
decided to go with th. flow and
directed a play"
This story began with a suicide
in the beginning and motel forward
through letters “Lciter said the
director, ‘played an irnpo ant role in
bringing out rhe pathos a d pain that
these two indiViduals werf in. Wehad
a few letters which Gu Dutt had
written to Geeta where acknowledges that ihe marriag had gone
wrong. But there is ave deep sense
of affection in those lett 5."
There were a few common
underlying strings that cbrinect both
these plays in terms ofirriusic. art.
unfulfilled love and death. Guru
and Geeta Dutt both reigned during
their time ~ he as an act ‘r and director and she as the den-arc actress.
Ludliuanvr and Pritani. however.
were both creative and arme the
audience with their poeiry.

lamps fair) and many other; wh ‘ i are
increasigng
ting frowned upon The Kite Festival in sprang iy elf
the maxi endearing feature for the old timers had bge- r
who had
been there. but ii is not there any more
i he muil'hucd
skies have disappeared. the soundnf Bo Kata ‘the
exprestion of iuhilatmn when you cut an opponent’s
kite strin
has been drowned forever
9
[,0 f’hrr Basrmt Ayee. was presented recently by Aroka
Theatre from Lahore ~ in the Pakittani Ilumsaya Festival
under the aegis of RoutesZroots — in the capital. The
play captures, in the anguished words of its director
Madeeha Gauhar “The story ofa beautiful place where
.
M
'
'tiem f." v
, times But the insidious crter
whil-

m, the gates disappeared and the cuvwas held hostage
from Within by an enemy which is now stealing everything — their valuables. their values. their culture and
their ideniiry.‘
The episodically-huilt play. written by Shahid
Nadccm, begins Will) a master craftsman L'itaad Mauyu
living under 111८ shadows of a decrepit Delhi Gate in
Lahore. His family has been making delicate and
colourful kites for the people of his citv for centuries.
The mayor part of the play comprises his e we lamentation on the weal and woe of the ordinary olks who do
not comprehend what is going on any more. There is a
professor who tries to sensitise his students to iiarappa
— the seat of Indus Valley civilisation — near Lahore.
but he is peremptorin told what to teach and what not
to. The young lovers. Sitting co ly on the same collegebench. are summarily separate . There is a little urchin.
who sees raanee in his dreamsand wants to fly w11h her
into the sky. is hushed up. The ‘Rok Thai-n Committee’
7 With a mullah heading a clutch of muscle-men — is
keeping a very close watch everywhere and even hold-

Partition’s own Oracle
The recently staged play Karin Haj leh Cusrakh focusst on Saadar Mama's life and his scoriesafter he

SUMANA MUKHERJEE
tells stories of life arid
people through her
travel pictures. By
RUPINDER KAUR
stackofrope layson abeach and ingwith. “The shotscame out so well
the picture (printed on canvas) thatit was easy to getit done on the
ls'titledDon't tie me
iron- mnvas.
wantedto givemy work
iqiswhatwetellthe
rand. a painting effect. but at the same
now an artist. Sumana Mukher‘ee time, I don'twant it to look entirely
eltplains. ‘itis every individuals ear like a paintiri . These are frozen
to be tied down to somethingIor moments with ' ts ofliveiiness." she
mimetic. If our soul ls free. en sat .
y be tied own."
Another shot ofchanging shades
Out of the5.000 pictures clidted with footsteps imprinted on sand
by her over the years for her travel
ngingSreps had been disdiaries. she recently displayed 50 of
on threeव्याख्या. Mukherjoe
thantitled Lens: PointatTa} Vivanta. captured the moments in
Am
or. us
2
vas as
Shankarpur when the sun was setmedium. One gets a glimpse of the ting. Slie infomied. "It talks about life
Shankarpur beach in Bren . dense an how veryindividual undertakes
a journey and leaves behind their
O
t
louvre and Arc de 'I'riomphe du mark. You sec a null of footsteps
use] in 1षे१डि, ct
moving in a forward direction and
‘ 'Myfriends asked me to show- then somewhere in the middle it
क्या the collection andsince 1 ama seems like the individual turrch
ﬁlmmaker. l was abit hesitant For back. He or she does so to see what
me. स्था।। Ral is the master. Then they've left behind for the others."
dais conceptof
and lense paint
F
' ig takesMukherjee to
came into my
d. Choosing ic- various locations throughout the
tures took me about four men s." countrywhere shealso comes across
$8M Mukherieewho has directed inlermtin subjects and stories. As we
movies and produced five stood in rent ofanother showpiece
lrns. Dream: The Movie was her For You. where one can see two
orial debut.
It
' awaywith bundles
As the sun sets at a beach some» of what seem“?like dry leaves. shc
where in Odisha, afather points out
c . “ is was an interesting
at thehorizon while a kid.clutching incident. 1 was clicking a woman
his
d. looks on. A mesmerising when a mancame to me and ob‘ectclick where the shades transit from ed so I told him that I love ciic ‘ng
grcyish blue to huesof sunswept lire. and will share the lctures willihim
' "It's about our future generalion as well. We were c iattin an all of
and what We give them. What we a sudden he ho ped on is bicycle
share withthem is what they'll take and started rusliin towards these
brward Itsabout how we convey our two women. Then found out. the
'ences with them rather than two had stolen the bundles from his
imposing our thoughts." she smiled. bicycle and left. I told the man tostop
' Camera ots on canvas is what chasing them and take the money
If}? artist was keen on experiment from me while i clicked them."
५

t.
- _
८८८३.…३३ 2AM -_2९.८८. ... 1.. c ३ .L»!4:_€144r‘l

'८

.4 gen 51);. ४ .4. .- ,...; - ३.८-..८८५७ ‘__r_-_:_ _.;_... ५

moved to Pakistan post: 1947. UTPAL K BANERIEE speaks to [lie director MADEEHA GAUHAR

D

.0

id Saadat Hasan Manto (19121955) — the ace chronicler of the
fractured times when thetwo countries
were reaping evil consequences of a
British-imposed division — understan the political phenomena surrounding him? He left his beloved
Bombay. and the world of celluloid. in
1949, and never ceased to pine for it.
despite its horrific communal riots. His
osen place in Paldstan was Lahore.
where hewas accosted byboth progres
sive and rightistintellectuals as well as
a fundamentalist establishment. lie
was denied a decent job. havin been
given a share in an ice factory w ereas
८ had applied for a printing press.
While his trenchant pen outpoured its
oeuvre on the downcast and the downrodden of the societ . his mind was
increasingly losing ho don thepolitical
realities. Indeed. he washarassed by the
press in Pakistan. and thrice hauled up
in the law-courts of British India an
thrice in Pakistan. although never convicted. Eventually. he became an alcoholic andwas sent tothe Lahore Mental
Hospital. Indeed, gee-politics forever
eluded him and — as is commonly said
remained a riddle. wrapped in
mystery. inside an enigma.’
Krtun Hai Yell Gnstnkh. recentlypresented byA'oka Theatre from Lahore क्वे
as part 0 Humsaya Festival from
Pakistan. or anised by RoutesZRoots —
ocuss on anto's own life and his stories. At one level, the play proceeded
with his dc arture from Bombay jetty.
bidding a ieu to his dearest friend
Murali; his very mixed reception in
Lahore; his bonhomic as well as bruises inmany anencounter: his court-room
appearance where. anion others. the
reat oet Faiz Ahmed aiz came to
geten him; his camaraderie amongthe
asylum-inmates whom he found more
sensitive than the outside ‘sane' world:
and his never-ending lovealfair with the
Bacchus.
At another level. the pla ' directed
by Madeelia Gauhar ret acted a
chiaroscuro of ﬂitting women andtheir
men: walking straightout of his famous

ing a slide-show of relative size ofincendiary bombs.
available around. And. amidst it all. life goes on. complete with young lovers throwing Iove-chits ateach other
an quarrelling neighbourhood wives mocking one
another — from adjoining roofs.
The pla askspoignantly — Baron! does arrive. but
will it be c ebrated in the besieged city? Ifyoung be
arewhisked away for flying kites and ifkite-makers |
Mauju are put
’ d bars for creatiLrai-g delicate. colourul kites. willl the spirit of zindn-dil
ore die? As loo
as there is one pretty little kite flyin on a singleroo top. will the dream of theﬂying dcligﬁtand freedom get
a new lease of life?
Extracts of interaction with the director:
_
l'Jls the main happeningspot. Delhi Gate. a ﬁctional.
lace!
में
P No. it very much exists in Lahore. just as there is a
Lahori Gate in Delhi.
DMauju’s commentary on the current state ofaffairs
‘ ver touchin ..
ls Yeys. we haveskept his narrative at deliberately lyrical — and even emotional — levels to voice sentiments
of the common man. Arshad Durani. who enacts this
role. is an octogenarian who hails from Amritsar and
used to cycle from his city and Lahore. as achild.

women characters a dignity they unde Shy-am and to his actor-friend
iurali.
deserved. His scathing insi ht into
human behcmour shone throu . as well
as his revelation of the macabre animale ‘ You have mixed the realistic namstylised inns”...
istic nurure ofart enraged pcop c. it was tire with hi
Thisis #5:; frequently used by theobvious why he used to comment. "I
you find mystories dirty. the society you atre-directors. When narratives sufﬁce
are llvrng in is dirty. ih my stories. I in a documentary 521८, 1'1९ used direct
communication an sior .rdling. But.
only expose the iruih..
where Mauro is visited
characters
1३ xtr.i i‘ ts fr oin i n l e r -a ct ii»n withthe from his masterpieces. su as Tliandir
Goslir. Kiwi Do and Tbba m Sitigli, I've
director:
used stylisation.
How did the title emerge? ९
How about thepersistent woman in
The title of the play comes front the
famous poet Maajced Amjad‘s power the dark back-drop who interrogates
ful poetic tribute to Manto. titled Kuiui him all the while?
Yes. I've used the image ofa shadHui YchGusinkh. it captures theessence
owy female in the background to epitof Maiito's nature so well.
oniise his myriad women characters and

While the play is largely in the nature their unspoken anguish mil angst.
a docu-dramu, are some parts Mania said once that he felt like being
a woman himself — to gmpai isc so
deliberately ficitionallsed?
The playwright Shahid Nadecnt much with especially the wronged
culled it entirely front the writings of ones. the fallen ones.
v ucd otenc
tr '
Martin and there is nothing invented
a dea maiden ‘ ‘
where Sakiiia faces untold horrors in her front imagination. Maiitus own words ‘ Did you have trouble in staging the
in India?
sexual liaisons. There was [unitewhere have been put in their ilraiiiaiic context. playThru:
years back. when we brought
the brave woman longa-drii'ur is that's all.
the play for the N50 festival. क्या were
opposed by all and sundr i. and yet she
Towards the piay‘senii. Munro ३०111- told not to stage it under iruirueiions
carries on. There were niIi Hiisliit
from higher authorities. We were in a
Dun and more. Finally. there was है t. uquises a large segment in own sci ~ total soup. Overnight, our friends
"
memorable I‘vlm 'l'ek Sing]. who has lost deprecatlon...
l'.\c'll "८11धिधि००-र्शधिहै४1111नि[।पजि७० arranged two special shows: one in the
recollectior of all 1101९1८1५ and lies
small Aksliara Theatre \thfg we could
down to die: next to a very real Muuio "l'ni ii'iir'tliless." ' I'm an out». i " "i 1‘
hardly accommodate spectators; and
lion l\ .il l riilvlilsli." and well 'ttilltlcliillrl befriending the mentally deranged.
“ﬁns to that the .In‘ .iii Likl'li innit his the other .it [NU when ihuusaiids
All through, Manlo‘s 1.।।1९९1।13८८11गा1 r
turned
tip.
trayed stark reality and pim'i et his writing». L'Ai‘CthllIV hum ill\ 1८५1० in his
fiction. There was. for instance. "आशा/11
Gash! where the protagonist loses his

it

old
DI: your theme song. Lo phir boson! open... an
refrain?
९
Yes. it is a very well-known song. sung by Mallika
Pokhraj. from the forties of the last century.
or does the ll reﬂect current realities?
DH‘l’twisf one unde get cent correct. Labores-most
(anions kite festival stands banned today. Even flying of
kites is totally ataboo. Today our skies are barren and
even ihe birds arebeing driven away. Spring arrives. but
there is no colour. no joy.
D Isn’t there sanctionofArnir Khusrall behind Basant
Pes tivnlहै
It's verymuch so. Amir Khusrau was so much taken
in by nature's beauty in spring that hegused to celebrate
it at'the dar ah of his murshed Kiiwaia Nizamusdddin
perAulia Since is time. Easant festival had remained a
fectly secular one. celebrated by Hindus. Muslims.
Yehudis and Isais alike.

