PUL PAR KHADE LOG
Whereas the Indian Thinkers who have struck upon a unique terminology regarding drama - a 'visual - poetry ' - and established the inter—
relationship between drama and poetry, at the same time spanish poet
and playwrite Lorca developed a theory that the process of becoming
human is the drama of poetry and all his plays work towards exposing the
inseperable unity between poetry and play.
Continuing from the Sanskrit drama traditions this blood relation between poetry and play was very beautifully and quite prudentrly treated
by the Parsi theatre. Eversince, till today the unsnapped relationship of poetry and play has invariably been exposed through contemporary Hindi
dramas with wver new dimenssions.
Today we stand on a bridge of a century which is fast fading. into
the past, we are standing here with a question of global culture and novel
humanity, and we look ahead towards the new century. At this juncture, it
becomes a moral liability of theatre to bring into view the possibilities that
are just in the offing of the new centure and on the stage of poetry it is the
expression of todays struggles. The expression is giving birth to new symbols,
new signs, new styles and so on.

But at the threshold of the new century it is observed that nothing
new is taking place. Nothing about which had not been preworked,
preimagined just at the beginning of the 20th century. The betrayal at the
hands of the need civilization, its downfall, its disbelief in faith, its moral degradation had been felt as a deep anguish by Jaishankar Prasad, Nirala,
Nagarjun Barti and even Gandhiji. In the same process Nehru was trying to
rediscover India. The tragedy of India'ss idealistic vision was being expressed
through the writings of those visionary writers and poets who lived in that
era and when the imagination was just taking shape.
Today all the doors of the futuristic imagination are closed on us
and what we come across are only illusionary images swinging in the void.
New going back into the past is to grapple with too many dangers, be, cause past is usurped by the fanatics and the future is lost in the images of
' the western commercialdom. Or it may be said that The one whose past is

plundered and future is lost has no present to call one‘s own.
Today we are passing through a time in which technology is expos-

ing the realities of future with utter violence. The poets have forced to act
so violently the thinkers pose no match, politicians are helpless and those
who wlrk for culture stand mute. Technology is no a vision in itself whereas

“‘9' '- “'7‘";

