. 1३3165 ofconquest
Ananda Lal
istorical drama in Bengali stages a comeback with
two plays set in medieval times, ranging from the turn
of the 13th century to the late 18th century. In both,
invaders lay waste to parts of eastern India.
’
Bohurupee’sKatha Nalanda recounts the plunder of
Nalanda by Bakhtiyar Khilji, fairly well established in the
collective memory as the death blow to that ancient shrine of
learning. However, the dramatist Kajal Chakrabarti adds a
more nuanced picture. He describes Nalanda as already in decline (a View supported by most historians) due to the rise of
Tantric Vajrayana, which gave greater importance to occult
magic and the body than to spirituality, and exploited for this
purpose women of adjacent villages. Meanwhile Khilji decides to ransack Nalanda almost as an afterthought, in his quest
to possess a woman he loved who had taken shelter there as a
nun; this subplot seems not to have any factual basis. Moderates among his Muslim comrades try to convince him (picture) not to resort to violence and atrocities, but in vain.
Debesh Raychaudhuri directs a large cast to Bohurupee’s
exacting standards, himself portraying the despicable Khilji.
Katha Nalanda clearly prioritizes events over characterization, but other actors who impress with sufﬁcient’onstage
time include PrabalMukhopadhyay as the lasthead‘ of Nalan‘
da and Rishabh
Basu as a
Young

bhikkhu.
Shankha
Bandyopadhyay’s set conveys a period ‘
ambience. _
Kalyani
Natyacharcha
Kendra revives
Nuraldiner
Sarajiban, the
famous verse
v
।
३ ‘
३
३ ’'
…
drama by Bangladeshi author Syed Shamsul Haq about the Rangpur peasant
rebellion in 1783 led by the simple farmer Nuraldin against
tyrannical zamindars propped up by the British. Victorious
and independent for ﬁve weeks, the uprising could not possibly withstand the powerful East India Company, who crushed
it ruthlessly. Haq implied that things might have turned out
differently if all the locals had united in Nuraldin’s cause.
Calcutta last saw this play in 1999, in the bilingual, inter३
cultural and intertextual production directed by Sudipto
Chatterjee for Epic Actors Workshop, New York. Compared to
that highly ambitious project, Kishore Sengupta directs a
३
very young team in a dynamically choreographed ensemble
where the same performers enact the rebels as well as the sta- ३
tus quo-ists justby a change of masks. He wisely retains
Haq’s sensitivity in not delineating all the British as villains,
but a few as slightly sympathetic to the “natives”. Dipankar
Das excels as the unwilling hero, the only psychologically de-

veloped portrait.

'

f

