Twenty Five Years of
Parvatiya Kala Kendra
Parvatiya Kala kendra was founded in 1968. with a view to promote the cultural
heritage ofCentIal Himalayan region comprising Kumaon and Garhwal. mentioned
in Puranic Scriptures as Manas—Kedar Khand.

First Phase: The song and dance ensemble was the ﬁrst phase of artistic grwoth
ofthe Kendra. Programmes consisting offolk'dances and folk music were so devised
as to present the various facets of the culture of the region. This helped the Kendra
to cater to the cultural needs of the fast growing migrants from the Central
Himalayan Region. and. what is of some signiﬁcance. to the needs of the new
generation, cut—off from its ethnic roots. These programmes soon attained such

popularity that not only voluntary institutions in Indian cities invited the Kendra
to present these programmes but also the ICCR sent the Kendra team to Sikkim in
197 1 (when it was not a part of India) to Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt. Syria and Jordan
in 1984 and to North Korea, China and Thailand in 1988.
Second Phase: The Kendra. while continuing with the Folk Songs and Dance
Ensemble, developed a strong urge to attempt theatrical presentations of the
ballads which constitute the richest cultural traditions of the people of ManasKedar Khand. The ﬁrst attempt in this direction was Rajula-Malu shahi. which was
followed by nine other ballads in the form of contemporary stage adaptations, and
three ofthese- RASIK RAMOLA. HILJATRA and HARUHEE’I‘ for ’I‘. V. presentations.
which were telecast by Doordarshan in its national network. Rasik-Ramola has
been telecast a number of times on Doordarshan.
The other dimension during the second phase has been presentation ofthe existing
traditional theatrical forms. Ramlila which is a unique theatrical form in Manas-

Kedar Khand. synthesises compositions ofTulsidas with Braj. Avadhi and Hindustani
song compositions of local poets of the region. and the entire Ramlila is sung by the
actors in compositions based on folk music. semi-classical and classical (Hindustani-Vocal) music for eleven consecutive nights. Similalry, Mahabharat was
presented in Hindustani and Garhwali, using Pandavdagar style of Garhwal.
The other attempt was to present Amanat’s “INDER-SABHA" which occupies a
significant place in the development of Indian Theatre.
Apart from these the Kendra also used the heritage of songs and literary creations
having roots in our struggle for national liberation and cultural past. GANGA.
which was sponsored by Delhi Hindi Academy, LAL—GULAB and VANDE-MATRAM.

which were sponsored by Delhi Sahitya Kala Parishad were three such presentations.
and Meghdoot of Kalidas was its recent production in this series. It was sponsored
by the Sahitya Kala Parishad Delhi.

LOK DEV’I‘A
Lok-Devta is going to be the ﬁrst production of the Parvatiya Kala Kendra. which
is being presented as a straight play. unlike its previous productions which were

mainly operatic. This play has been written by Shri Brijendra Lal Shah. who has
been writing the operatic scripts for the Kendra Since 1980 onwards. Based on the
folkloric traditions of Kumaon, a part of the central Himalayan region. the play

attempts to portray some of the events which occurred during the reign of Chand
dynasty ruling Kumaon from the 1 1th to the 1 8th century end. when it was annexed
by Nepal. In 1816. the British captured it. The events occurring in this play

happened sometimes towards the middle of the 17th century giving birth to a new
indegenous God. Bholanath. incorporated later by the people of Kumaon in their
ritualistic repertoire. called the Jagar.

