SYNOPSIS
Harichand, one of the princes of the Chand dynasty is not interested in
ascending the throne. A patron ofart, mainly music and dance, he is in love with
Kokila, a dancer and singer of the low Nayak caste. His mother. however is very

keen to become the mother Queen and put her son Harichand on the throne.
His grandfather, the mighty Baj Bahadur is interested in Gyanchand his

another grandson. Intrigues and counter-intrigues follow in the court. A
conspiracy is hatched to remove Harichand along with his father Odyotchand
from Almora. On the orders of Baj Bahadur they are dispatched to quell a revolt

in Gangawali region, on the advice of the arch-conspirator Vishweshar Pande.
Gyanchand orders Kokila to administer poison toHarichand while in sleep. who

is sent with him to the battleﬁeld to entertain him. Kokila accepts his order. as
her mother and her two young brothers are in the custody of Gyanchand.
Harichand's. mother through counter espionage comes to know of this plot. she
deputes her trusted maid Malyura to foil any attempt to kill Harichand. In the
battlefield. Kokila puts Harichand to sleep, and mixes poison in the wine.

which. she advises him to take in the morning. In the morning. Harichand takes
the poisoned glass to his lips. But, Malyura who has been evesdropping,
intervenes and throws away the glass. In the ensuing conversation it is revealed

that Malyura has come there to save Harichand‘s life. He wants proof. Malyura.
who secretly loves him. drinks the poison and dies. In the meanwhile, the village
folk bring the deadbody of Kokila to Harichand. She has consumed half of the
poison and is dead. Harichand is disillusioned by this tragic event. He decides

to leave the Kingdom. cuts himselfofffrom all his relations & takes to ‘Sanyasa’,
Penance.

IN’I‘ERMISSION

After fourteen years Harichand returns to Almora as a rnendicant. He is known
all over as Bholanath. He develops spiritual powers. In Almora. he locates
several points where water is available. His fame spreads far and wide. He takes
only milk which is served to him by Parvati, a village woman. who after a long

wait has recently become pregnant from Pandev. Harichand's purpose of
coming to Almora is to complete his training as a Sanyasi by taking alms from

his father and mother; if not alive . then from the nearest Kith & km. The Court
Guard Khim Singh, however recognises him as Harichand. He informs the
leaders of various communities ofAlmora about his mysterious appearance in
Almora. He also informs Gyanchand of the impending danger to his throne. as

Harichand is becoming popular in Almora by his magical power to locate water
springs. Even though the palace is heavily guarded, one night Bholanath enters
the bed chamber of Gyanchand and Gyanwati. They both are shocked and
frightened. A conference is held in the inner chamber of Gyanchand and it is

decided to do away with Bholanath and Parvati and spread the rumour that he
her
has eloped with Parvati, and that Parvati has become pregnant because of

illicit relations with Bholanath. It is also decided to cut his body into eight pieces
& bury them at different points in Almora. Bholanath along with pregnant

Parvati are brutally murdered. After this gory murder Almora is visited by a
from
curse. Gyanwati falls ill. she is possessed by Parvati's soul. The town is hit
truth.
the
reveals
all sides by huge stones. A] agar is performed. Sridhar’I‘ewari
Parvati‘s soul speaks through Gyanwati. She orders that eight temples should
are lying
be erected at those eight points where the pieces of Bholanath's body
of Bhairab
buried. Only after this is accepted , the soul departs. These temples
still exist in Almora, and people worship there.

