THE DIRECTOR
M. K. Raina

Graduated from National School of Drama in
1970 with the best actor‘s award. Directed over a
hundred plays . Indian and International classics.
and has conducted 45 workshops in different
parts of India.
' ८ Founder member and Artistic Director ofPRAYOG
‘ a leading theatre group of Delhi, which has
received many awards for its outstanding work.
है

It was with PRAYOG that he did some work in

: ~ ३ street theatre, taking theatrical works on socially
relevant themes to remote. under privileged and
congested areas of Delhi.
In the year 1980 was awarded the Sanskriti
Award for emienence in Theatre. In the year
1981. his play KABIRA KHARA BAZAR MEIN bagged 6 of the 7 awards of Sahitya

Kala Parishad. Delhi. In 1982. He was adjudged the Best Director of the year
1981-82 by the West Bengal Govt. In the year 1987 he received Sahitya Kala
Parishad Samman for excellence in Direction. Went to U. S.A. . in 1986 as Andrews
Distinguished Visiting Scholar to Hawai and taught Drama. Has been a member
of Sangeet Natak General council for the 1988—93 term. Was guest of French Govt.
at the international theatre Festival at Aviganon. Received British common Wealth
Grant for a review of the Contemporary Theatres scene in England.
In the year 1990-91 directed signiﬁcant major Theatre productions such as translation of chekov’s ‘THREE SISTERS’. and adaptation of Brecht’s ‘MOTHER'
has also directed Heneir Mullers ‘THE TASK' under the aegis of the Max Muller
Bhawan. In 1992. directed two films. one for C .S. R. I. on the great scientist Dr. Homi
bhabha and 20 minute documentary on Ladakh called ‘JULLEY'. This is his ﬁrst
production with Parvatiya Kala Kendra.

ABOUT THE WRITER
Brijendra Lal Shah
Born in Almora. Bn’jendra Lal received his higher
education at the Allahabad University. He has writ—
ten novels, plays. song-dramas on subjects and
themes mainly connected with the life and people of
the hills of the central Himalayan region of Kumaon
& Garhwal. Many of his plays like ‘Balidan’, ‘ShilpiKi— Beti‘ ‘Chaurahe—Ki-Atma‘. ‘Bhasmasur’ are written
in Hind. His major ‘Contribution lies in dramatization of the folk ballads of Kumaon and Garhwal. All
, these have been enacted by the Parvatiya Kala
जा Kendra since 1980. Some of then are ‘Rajula—
Malushahi‘ ‘Ajuwa-Bafaul‘ ‘Rasik—Ramola'. ‘BhanaGangnath. Jeetu-Bagdwal ‘Haruheet‘ and' ‘Rami‘.
Rasik—Ramola has been telecast by Doordarshan is its national network several
times. 'Lok-Devata' written by him in Hindi is yet—another play based on the wellknown folk ballad called ‘Bholanath. He has also written several plays, playlets.
song-dramas for the A.I.R., Song & Drama Division & D ,Qrdanshan.-..-.w~ - . -- l

