DIRECTOR’S NOTE
Lehron Ke Rajhans apart from being set in history, has
also made history of sorts. This is the only play we have
with two published versions - both quite different from
each other. The notes of Rakesh that accompany the
second version bear testimony to the fact that this
emerged as a consequence of interaction with theatre
practitioners as Rakesh confronted the problems arising
from the first version. । had never crystallized my thoughts
on the different impressions the two versions created but
several questions remained unanswered.
Only, when । had to take up the play for production very
suddenly, 1 went through both the versions along with the
actors. Then । felt that even though the ending in the 1 st
version left one dissatisfied, this version was more

emotionally charged; the second version defined the
issues involved in the play more clearly but because the
characters tended to be too argumentative-the play left
one cold. Therefore we decided to use the first version for
our production.

We have taken the 1 st scene, and some part of Nand’s
monologue in the last scene, from the second version. The
first is to create the atmosphere of festivity, and the
second to clarify Nand’s dilemma and his final statement.
The ending of the play still remains frustrating because the
relationship ends in a misunderstanding—not in a conscious
non-acceptance of each other’s point of view.
Mohan Rakesh in his introduction, has also referred to

Ashvaghosh’s ’Saundaranand’ — so I read that too. 1 was
particularly fascinated by the delicate imagery and
sensuality in its description of their love and sorrow at
separation. I decided to use some of these verses to
heighten the conflicts of the characters in the play and
provide another dimension to the relationship.
The play remains very relevant because it not only deals
with the question of choice between the worldly and
unworldly, material and the spiritual, through the complex
dynamics of a man woman relationship but essentially
with the search of every man for his own identity, for the
meaning of his existence. Since it is a question that
transcends time and historicity we decided to place it in a
historical formalistic setting. We tried to create a space
which is a metaphor by itself and also a space where the
characters live out their experiences. The entire play is
very ’real’ at one level and very metaphorical at another.

