7d हआख्यिष्टाक्य
" AWISHKAR ”
A Short Resume
From the inception of AWISHKAR in the year 1971, there were certain objectives in the mind of the
founder-members. The ﬁrst-rate productions of new, meaningful plays was, of course, one of them.
But certainly not the only one.
In fact this was an ‘ Instrument ’ really to achieve the goal. To produce
a new play as best as one can and then start the search for another play is a routine often followed by all
the drama organisations. Awishkar wanted, consciously, to avoid this.
AWISHKAR had pledged to strive for laying the foundation of a theatre movement which, through

serious approach, would help develop the various branches of theatre and which would continue to thrive
unhampered in Bombay City in particular and Maharashtra State as general.
The availability of a central place for all the activities was posing a main problem. This problem was
temporarily solved due to the generosity of the Governing Body of the General Education Institute, Bombay.
AWISHKAR has been allowed the use of the School hall of Chhabildas Lallubhai Boys’ High School, a school
run by this institute. This hall is situated in Dadar, a suburb of Bombay, and is available to AWISHKAR
on all the evenings, except may be, about 10-15 days in a year.

This was the apportunity, we were waiting for. AWISHKAR decided to allow all other dra‘na organisations
like itself, to make use of the hall for their shows as well with an intention of establishing the place as a
cultural centre for the struggling theatre folks of the city of Bombay.
That these hopes were not unfounded is proved by the response AWISHKAR received from theatre-people
as well as the serious theatre goers for last 6 years. AWISHKAR is now conﬁdent that this ‘ intimate
theatre ’ has come to stay, provided we are allowed to continue in this hall.

Nearly twenty experimental units have given over 700 shows in this ball so far and increasing audience
attendance in the small auditorium shows that the hall has become a ‘ habit ’ now. This situation was
unthinkable just before ten years. Even organizations from outside places like Pune and Nasik situated in
Maharashtra State and also from other languages have started performing their plays in this hall.

AWISHKAR conducts following activities, besides the running of this School hall :
(A) THEATRE WORK SHOPS :
The aim of these Workshops is to create awareness of theatre in young college-going boys and girls. These
Workshops are normally of the duration of four months and are conducted on Saturdays and Sundays.
A small fee is charged for the course. Following are the two important Workshops conducted by AWISHKAR

for speciﬁc purpose.

