(viii) “ ABOO HASAN ”—Adaptation of Badal Sarkar’s Bengali Play by
Shri Arun Kakade and diected by
Shri Jaidcv Hattangadi. The cast included 40 artistes.
(ix) “ KULVRITTANTA ” (A Family Tree). Written by Shri Vrindavan
Dandavate and directed by
Shri Dilip Kolhatkar . The cast included 30 artistes.

(x) “AAPULA THAO NA SANDITA” adapted by Shriram Khandekar from ‘Eac
h in his own Way’ by Luigi
Pirandello ; and directed by Shri Vihang Nayak. 40 artists trained in drama worksh
op Participated.
(xi) “DUSHTA-CHAKRA” Original play by Vrindavan Dandavate and also direct
ed by him. The cast included
40 artists. The play also won the prize in state drama Festival in 1979.
Seven productions among the above, viz. 5, 6, 7, 8,
conducted by AWISHKAR.

9, 10, 11 included the students of the theatre Workshops

Having established a good repetoire of Marathi plays Awishkar turned to producing plays in Hindi starting
with Dr. Shankar Shesh's ‘ Rakta-beej ’ which was directed by Arwind Deshpande which is nearing its
golden jubilee performance. And other play being ‘ Poster ’. Two more plays in Hindi ‘ Komal Gandhar
’
by Dr. Shankar Shesh and ‘ Ala Af'sar ’ by Mudra Rakshas will be produced in the near future. The former,
a mythological play with modern relevance will be directed by Arwind Deshpande. The later a musical
comedy in the Nautanki form will be directed by Jayadev Hattangady.
CHAN DRASHALA : In 1979, Awishkar started its children unit, Chandrashala under the guidance of Smt.

Sulabha Deshpande. Chandrashala conducted various projects such as Chitrakathi, Puppetry, Dance Dicipline,
Drama, Kirtan, Story—telling, Groupe Art etc. with the help of 15 schools in Dadar area. Nearly 600
children participated in the projects . Eminent artists, such as Guru Parvatikumar, Madhulal Master helped
Chandrashala in these ventures. A dance drama viz. “ APNA HAATH JAGANNATH ”, was produced in
December 1979, with 70 children in cast. More than 15 shows have been staged. In November children
of Chandrashala will go to Anandvan, Varora, to present a show and to hand over money collected from
these shows to Shri Baba Amte for his “ Gokul ”, a project for destitute children.
ASHWIKAR has a dream.

To conduct all its activities in its own small Theatre.

We are aware that this

dream is worth some six hundred thousand rupees.
Everyone, however, in AWISHKAR, has pledged to bring this dream into a reality, even if it takes next
twenty years.

\G

— - « -दृटछेही/रंहिहृट्वेंरु-च्चों

