SOME

PRESS OPINIONS

Glimpses of the difﬁcult, and yet fascinating life of the mountain-locked district of Garhwal were provided in
the three one-act plays presented on the ﬁrst day of Garhwali Drama Festival. One of the plays, The lake of the
She-ghosts, made the nostalgic crowd from that part of the country re-live a few intense moments of their life
in that unkind yet fabulously beautiful land. Though not a ballet it has no less an appeal than Giselle has for a
western audience.
The other play, The court of the Crooked, is a satire on the system of justice in Garhwal .... .. The Lost Ram,
is a humourous skit revolving round the life of a demobilised soldier who takes to tending sheep and turns the
village upside down when one of his rams is found missing.

Mr. L. M. Thapalyal, who wrote and produced the plays, deserves the gratitude of hill folk for providing
ﬁne fragments of the wealth of the genuine entertainment of Garhwal.
—The Times of India, 14 February, 1959

Some unusual dramatic fare was presented by the Garhwal Sangeet Natak Samaj .......... ..There is little
doubt about the felicity with which the dialect lends itself to use as dramatic dialogue but its appeal is naturally
limited. One wonders whether it would have been a better idea for the group to produce in Hindi using the dialect
to strengthen the main language ....... . . Judging from the reaction of the audience the lines seemed to hit home and it

was on the whole, an enjoyable evening....... ..The standard of acting....... ..uniformly good ....... ..perhaps reﬂected
the advantage the actors had in using a speech, the cadences and inﬂexions of which came to them most
naturally ................ . .

— The Sunday Standard, 14 February, 1959

............. ..Plays mirroring life in the hills... ... ... .. .The acting was convincing... .... .. “Effective lighting and
background music ﬁnely brought out the moods of the plays ......... ..
—The Hindustan Times, 14 February, 1959

"प्रथम गढ़वाली नाटक समारोह. . . … . . .यह प्रथम अवसर है जब कि इतने बड़े पैमाने पर पर्वतीय भाषा में तथा पर्वतीय संस्कृति

पर प्रकाश डालने का आयोजन हुआ है । .......... . ."

दैनिक हिन्दुस्तान, ८०83 फरवरी, {Me
A folk colour as pleasant as it was new, marked the three dramatic productions by the Garhwal Sangeet
Natak Samaj .......... ..The three items presented were Ghar Jawain, a brief play in the comic vein; Achhmyun-ko-Tal

another brief play and a dance drama.

The ﬁrst two ....... . . did credit not only to the players who staged them but

also to the simple hill folk they dealt with.

The dance drama, composed by Mohan Upreti, was also a fair

representation of the rhymes and rhythms of the hills.
—-The Indian Express, 19 March, 1962

