_'

‘l

“HAROUN AND THE SEA OF STORIES”
Director’s Note

The Red Noses Club is a 6-month programme for children, with meetings at weekends and during
school vacations, from July to January each year. It offers a basic training in theatre and allied arts,
culminating in the production and presentation of a play. The 1993-94 session, however, has been
extended owing to the additional challenges of dramatising a novel.

The young people performing must be congratulated for their perseverance through weeks of
gruelling hard work. Several could not tolerate it and fell by the wayside; fell back to watching
television. Those that kept their (red) noses stuck to the grindstone managed to forge their way
through the processes of trial-and-error improvisation, editing and script-making, transforming
the ZOO-page novel into a 70-page play. The novel is epic; so was the challenge to dramatise and
stage it.

The story is about storytelling. ltjuggles with the exploits of a storyteller, Rashid Khalifa, and
his son, Haroun. It seeks to provide an answer to the enigmatic question that is asked repeatedly
throughout the play: “What’s the use of stories that aren’t even true?” We hope that the answer is
apparent by the end; after the defeat of Khattam-Shud, the Prince of Silence and the Foe of Speech;
after Snooty Buttoo, the politician is run out of town; after the citizens of Sad City have learnt how
to enjoy themselves.
Naturally, then, the play unfolds as a story told by two narrators. The acting style is essentially
mimetic. Stage decor is non-existent, to allow the power of Word and Gesture free rein to conjure
up whatever magic they can in the audience’s imaginations. This is a deliberate, conscious ploy to
offSet the visual overkill perpetrated by the film and television media in these times. The costumes,
slide-projections and lighting effects are used to underscore the story’s metaphors ofLight, Shadow
and Darkness.
Special thanks must go to Anita and Sumant for their work on the poster, costumes and slideprojections; to Sukhesh for unstinting support in the blackest periods, and for dealing with the
Kafkaesque machinations of the ETC) and the Delhi Police; and to the parents who have involved
themselves in the production and supported the brave efforts of their children.
A final word of disgust, that no company found the children’s efforts worth sponsoring. Those
we approached were either ﬂatly unconcerned, or else wanted to commercially exploit the children’s
work and transform the theatre into a market-place . Is there really no one who values the programme
in itself, without asking “What’s in it for us?”

नंमृरअंदृ प्रतिष्ठ

j

’zﬁr:”—"”‘TT3i{

Barry John

