Birector’s note
”Stories are what you are. rIhey are where you came from and how you were

made. Stories are why things are as they are, and how they came to he.
’Ihey are the whole world, and everything heyond the world, and it हैं time
you knew what they were. Sit. Listen..... ष
from a play written 6y a 15 year old.

’ﬂlihaha and ﬁlladin ’forms part of a continuing series of Kuchika productions that look
aﬁ'esh at the many stories and myths of diﬁ‘erent cultures across the world. '2३5८ ’Tanchatantra’
was the ﬁrst of these, ’ﬂllihaha and leadin ’ is the second, and in @ecemher this year we
hring together three myths from diverse cultures for a production with the Little ﬁctors
Cluh.
’Ihis search has also included my productions of rVijay Dan ‘Detha हैं Rajasthani folk tale

'Odhni ', (for Ruchika), Kipling हैं ’Jungle 'Book’ (for the N51) ’Z'I'E company) and "Ihe
(Emperors Nightingale ' ﬂor 'Bluehells School). ’Diﬁ‘erent cultures, diﬁ‘erent myths . all linked
hy the power of a good story, well told.
Reading through ८5८ original ﬂrahian Nights, one is struck hy the odd assortment of
characters who people its pages. Many of these are strong, self willed women (Schrezade,
’Dunyazaad, Marjeena, Kasim 's wife) willing to take on and suhtly overpower the masclt
line world of power and money, theft and avarice. Underground caves fall of jewels,

दृ hloodletting andgetting, magic and sorcery form important ingredients of these tales. ﬁts do
हैं comedy and trickery, foolishness and ineptness.
Kamala Kamchandani 's original script has heen freely adapted hy the cast through several
हैं improvisations in ﬁlpril and May. ﬁts a result the script reflects the young person of today.
50 Kasim 's family hecomes the greedy consumerist family of Delhi - who order the ’extra

large extravaganza ' Dominos [Pizza over a cellphone, drink their Cokes only in cans and
possess a separate car for every poodle in the family! ’Ihe rohhers are a hunch of hungling,
humhling idiots who sing ;.
_ "When you ’re climhing the ladder

ﬁnd they 're other people down helow
Just step on their ﬁngers and squeeze

‘Iill the fools let go! ’

