Each child is unique and has his/her own special needs, in the areas of education,

‘ physmtherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy and movement work.
Coming to ASTHA'S centre also means a lot of fun. It means playing, being messy,

part1c1pat1ng 1n art projects, going for outings and celebrating festivals with lots ofvigour.
1:325: means taking part in events, plays, art exhibitions which project the abilities of our
0
en.
ART EXHIBITIONS

These are only a few comments from our visitors book at the three major art exhibitions,
Child Art-I (1992). Child Art-II (1994) and Child Art III (1997) organised by ASTHA.

At each exhibition, paintings done by children in various special schools working with the
multiply disabled and mentally disabled, were selected, carefully mounted and displayed.

Each painting put up at these exhibitions has its own history.

The child with cerebral palsy may ﬁnd it difﬁcult to coordinate his limbs and balance but
that does not in any way hamper his ability to create a beautiful painting.

The seven year old mentally challenged child may not draw is human ﬁgure as precisely
and accurately as his non-disabled peers, but his creation and vision will be no less delightful

and valid in its uniqueness.
Each painting was on sale and the money from the sale of paintings went to the child
artist. One hundred and ﬁfty six paintings sold at the exhibitions.

Some of the fallouts ofthese exhibitions have been
1. A corporate house chose paintings and printed them as

their new years calender
2. ASTHA was invited to conduct sensitisation programmesﬁ‘
in schools in Delhi

9?

i७ ५
INTEGRATION
Over the last four years ASTHA has used events such as the

'\‘

art exhibition to get disabled and non disabled children

"Q

together.

The organisation has organised three integrated workshops

getting over 200 children with disabilities together with their
non disabled peers in creative settings.
०

As a result ofthis the children of ASTHA met and played

with the children of Don B osco School regularly for a year.
' ' ' has worked on a wo rk boo k
'
' tions
diViSion
AS '1‘ HA ' 5 communica
for children in general schools sensitizing them to their non

Real/y meeting a special

child is the best way to
understand her and the

.
.
. of her Situation.
reality

