disabled peers. This fun book explaining disability will soon be ready to read.
During the course ofwriting this book members ofASTHA met with over 300 school children
in Delh1 and talked to them about their disabled peers. They found that
०

A large number of children have never really interacted with special children.

०

Children often don't know how to interact with special children

०

If both sets of children are encouraged to interact they soon begin to learn form each
other and enjoy each other's company.

AS'I‘HAfs Communications Division is involved in producing ﬁlms, radio program
‘and written material in the area ofdisability. It is also conducting research in the
area.
Our Govindpuri Project

In 1996 members of ASTHA decided to reach out to children with special needs in the less
afﬂuent parts of Delhi on, the Govindpuri resettlement colonies, we found had many children

with special needs.

Rakesh is a bright young nine year old with polio in both legs. Rakesh wanted to go to
school but he cannot walk to school and he is too heavy now to be carried. The school is
unwilling to accept Rakesh because he cannot walk.

Seema is three years old and has been diagnosed as having a severe hearing loss. But
getting the hearing aid is costly and Seema's mother needs to know how to maintain a
hearing aid.
Saira is severly malnourished and therefore not developing physically and mentally the

way she should.

ASTHA'S team of community workers has identiﬁed over '70 children with different needs
in a preliminary survey and now has begun working towards meeting these needs.
Three years Hence

ASTHA sees itself as an organisation that is:
100 children
० able to provide a high level of professional regular services to at least a
and their families from different strata of society;
counseling,
० able to provide to atleast another 50 children and their families; professional
information and referral services. ;

pment

०

would have completed the preparatory phase of research and infrastructure develo

for a sheltered vocational training

disabilities.

workshop for people with severe

.

' 4v
/‘

(

०

would have set up a Research
ely involved '
Centre and be activ
.
. .
trainlng material, as well as ब्लू u

raising material in the area a

‘

\

बु

. ’

and

Communication

in the production of
I
७

y

D ~ag\ ‘

research and awareness

0;. if» of disability;
, relevant need

involved in disseminating
based information.

(:.]]514:25)
Let's Make Friends

