On the margin, not the fringe ......
’Z'wentyﬁve years ago, to the date, for the 15 memher 16 year old
cast ﬁshaad Ka fEk

Din was One Day in ﬁshaad. ’Ihis cryptic sentence tells it all. To my mind,
this group
reflected the hest aspirations of adolescence of a fledgling middle class in a
middle- aged
nation - a refusal to merely mimic western culture in clothes and tastes,
to mindlessly
adopt what passes for ’westernisation ’ and to remain ’connected' to issues that
dog
this class, city, nation. Mot radical, hut not straight and narrow. Not conventional
or

traditional without heing of the estahlishment - not of the fringe, yet on the margin.
Not surprisingly, most of this lot did not see "What the Dutler 5aw’, like the good

Indians they were, they did not say ’No Sex Tlease, We are Dritish. ’ Not always ahle
to do plays in Eiindi or in regional languages, they tried the second hest solution-English
translations of the very hest writing from anywhere in India - Qiddhade as ’Vultures,
ﬂdhe ﬁldhure as Halfway ﬂlouse [Ruchika 'Iheatre Group remains the oldest amateur theatre group in the capital. 'Zhe

original individuals of the group have not hecome CEO '5, joined the services or hecome
MRI engineers hut have remained linked to related areas such as professional theatre,
music, cinema, art, philosophy or photography.
ﬁnd so when The Little ﬁctors Cluh was initiated hy the hy-now middle aged originals
of Ruchika, it too reflected these concerns, Tanchatantra and this production are not
1 ﬁzzed- up plays sponsored 6y junk food companies or by large toy companies that
import harhie or g.I.joe. ’Ihis ﬁlladin is no line 6y line, scene hy scene imitation of a
Disney video or musical score. ﬁlihaha does not have a fake west coast accent. rDie

language of the play is the language spoken 6y middle class children in Del/i i . not
'politically correct ' always hut certainly not conventional to the wretched middle class
of this city.
Just an aside at the end . from play to play, many a romance hlossomed predictahly
across caste, class and religious lines. Several children in ﬁllihaha and ,‘leladin are
progeny of the cast of ﬁshaad Ka Dk Din.
'Kalidas ' a 'Kangini '

(Kajeev d ‘I'ani Dhargava)
- ﬁshaad Xa 'Ek Din

