THE DIRECTOR
Shri. Bipin Kumar started his journey in theatre from the remote areas of Bihar where he had formed a theatre group named
"YUVA RANG MANCH". Then he underwent formal training in theatre from the National School of Drama and since

1987 he has been running the Kshitij Theatre Group. He has
had the honour of working with eminent theatre personalities
like Ratan Thiyam, Satya Dev Dubey, Ranjeet Kapoor , John
Martin, Robin Das, B.M. Shah, KirtiJain, Mohan Maharishi,

Barry John and Ram Gopal Bajaj, As a Director he has many plays to his credit-"Bk Tha
Gadha, 'I‘rishanku, Jati Hi Puchho Sadhu ki, Panchhi Aeise Ate Hain, Hamlet, The Fan, Pagla

Ghoda, Chakra Biyaban Mein Ugtay Kinshuk, Chidimar Ka Sapna and Yayati" are a few
acclaimed ones. Bipin Kumar’s creative talent is not limited to theatre only. He has also produced and acted in a number of TV. Serials and educational films.

THE PLAY WRIGHT
MAXIM GORKY (1868—1936): Soviet novelist, short story writer, dramatist and critic: the

“stormy pretel” of the Russian Revolution and the official hero of Soviet art.
Gorky learned about life on the road and soon became a self— educated rebel artist. His early

romanticized peasant tales transfromed the author into a tramp-poet folk hero for the urban
artistic intelligentsia, who sought to emulate his prirnitivism in their work. Always self- criti—
cal, even embarrassed by the clumsiness of his art and ambivalent toward the illiterate peasant life from which literature provided him an escape, Gorky devoted his career to reconciling the classes into an enlightened society built upon education and communication. His
humanist philosophy extended into the realistic Literature which formed the basis of his

developing art and his growing role of a mediator between art and society.
Gorky wrote 12 plays between 1910 and 1913, having already established himself as a short

story writer, novelist, revolutionary poet and social force. His plots are dialectically constructed
so as to economize and maximize the conﬂicts portrayed in his work. The language is often
rhetorical , building towards and often interrupted by ideological tirades that are meant to
educate the audience. While Gorky garners raw power from his group portraits and folkloric

elements, he is less effective with individuals, unless they inspire his rage or enthusiasm.

