SHRI RAM CENTREACTIVITIES
About Shri Ram Centre :

Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally known as the Indian

National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural scene. A leading cultural
organization, its objective is to nurture and develop talent in the performing arts and its
programmes are organised towards this end.
Theatre Repertory :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading companies of the

country. The repertoire of oustanding plays performed by the repertory including Sakharam
Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya W'ohJanmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla Ghoda have contnb
uted signiﬁcantly to Hindustani drama in the country. Besides performing regulme in Delhi,
the Reperotry also stages sponsored shows in other parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern plays in various

styles and forms under the direction of such eminent theatre directors as Habib Tanvir, Late
Shri B.V. Karanth, Rajendranath, B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory has

performed 66 Hindi plays since its inception.
Acting Course :

To encourage young amateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts conducts a two

year part time training programme. The 1st year is devoted to in-depth study an all aspects of
theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into production on
Indian-classical, experimental, Westrern and modern-Indian dramas. This helps to prepare a

professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future. Students who complete the
course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our Repertory or join the National School
of Drama or the Media.
Shri Ram Centre Kavi Sammelan :

Every year the Shri Ram Centre performs the annual Kavi Sammelan. Eminent poets like
Neeraj, Bal Kavi Bairagi, Om Vyas and others grace the occasion with their poems. ’Ihe Kavi
Sammelan is held in the honour of Late Lala Sri Ram.

Children TheatreWorkshop :
’Ihe SRC Children’s Theatre Workshop is one—month production oriented workshop con—
ducted during Summer vacation every year under the guidance of a renowed Camp director.

This feature is aimed to impart theatrical values to children and to improve their communica—
tion skills.

