Rashomon
Though the story of Rashomon is set in the 8th century A. D. of Japan yet it puts forth
a very modern view of reality. We are urged to grasp the story visually and morally
in multiple dimensions. Superficially a “Court room ‘drama”, it exposes in the most

direct manner a violent - event taking place in the isolated depths of a forest, where
a bandit happens to intercept the passage of a warrior and his lady. A foraging wood
cutter then discovers the warrior’s corpse, the bandit is captured as his suspected killer
and the lady herself, completely distraught, is brought into the police headquarters to
give testimony with the bandit. Each witness without preliminaries confronts the
audience as if they were the examining magistrates. The dead warrior communicates
through a rnediurnistic woman. It turns out that every individual story differs entirely

from the others. The woman says she was raped by the bandit’s trickery; the bandit
says that she yielded herself willingly after he had worsted her husband in a fair sword
fight the warrior’s spirit says that he committed suicide after his wife had voluntarily

fled with the bandit. The woman explains her husband’s death by saying that, having
been refused his forgiveness after the rape, she herself stabbed him in a state of shock.
Kurosawa conceded some thing to popular taste by giving the original story a ‘framing
action’, in which a priest, a tramp and the wood cutter, who has found the corpse,
lament the sins of humanity on the picturesque site of one of the great gates of ancient
Kyoto, ‘Rashomon’, which has been partly destroyed by a civil war. In the end, a

fondling baby is adopted by the wood cutter. Easily we can ignore such sentimental
hokurn because of the way the wood cutter’s role has been organised. He states in
the Court that he has eavesdropped on the whole tragedy, disqualifying the other
stories by declaring in a cowardly hysterical way, the bandit killing the warrior in a
burlesque of honorable combat.

When the wood-cutter catches the tramp trying to steal clothes from the baby, the
tramp reminds him the words of the spirit that some one (wood-cutter) drew from his
breast the weapon with which he has killed himself. The implication is that the wood
cutter has stolen the valuable sword and indeed sold it in the market to arrange bread
and butter for his starving children.

In fact this story leads us to the concept of existentialisrn and humanity...

Rashornon
(Adaptation of the Japanese film script in Hindi)
. Written by - Aqutagawa

Directed by—Satyabrata Rout

