eye

ARTS etc
4

'

THE SUNDAY EXPRESS MAGAZINE
WWW. lN D MN EX P RESS . CO M

SU NDAY, MAt 2 2 . 2016

NA

HE CLAPS started as a ripple and
became aroar. The sound rose to
theceiling hrt the Wingand thundered in the green roorrr where
Nageen Tanvrr, 51. sat With some
actors. When she came out to the stage.
Nageen saw the hall was on its feet up to
the balcony. and applauding wrth gusto.
This WBSJUSIas itused tobe long ago. when
her father. liabib Tarrvrr. was the head of
Naya Theatre.
The show of Charundus Chor was held
in Delhi in April as part ofthe Zohra Segal
Festivalof the Arts. Every theatre has a
story.and Naya Theatre rs scripting its re—
wval. Chmundas Char. one ofthe group‘s
masterpieces. was performed outsrde
Bhopal after many years. The group had
been silent for so long that It seemed to
have died Withits founder.The successful
show was Nageen‘s way of announcrng a
comeback Ifshe had saeamed.she corridor havebeen louder.
Ever since he set it up in 1959. liabrb
wasliayaT'heatr-e A giant inperson andm
thearts he wasa playwright. actor. singer.
stage manager and a poet in lirndi and
Urdu. Actors were from liabrb's natrve
G'rhatlisgarh and spoke. sang and danced
inthelocal dialect in robust productions of
AgraBazaar. Mudru-Rakshasa, Hirma ki
AmarKahani. BuhadurKalarin and Bertolt
Brecht‘s The Good Woman of Setzuan.
drew full houseevery time
for three decades and was staged all over
lndra and Etuope A range of artists from
across the country were involved with
hlaya Theatre. one of themost important
KNUPS याँDOST-Mapendence India
When Habib died In2009. his daugh-

Nageen Tanvir brings back Naya Theatre aftera hiatus and with it. herfather Habib'svision. In this
interview. shetalks of her own experiments and strugglesto restorethe g roup to itsformer glory

2012. the grants slowed down. The econorrryplummeted and large productionsbe—
came too expensiveto travel with. Vaishali
kingarvadhu has been staged only three
times.Now. for the sole purpose ofgetting
shows.we haveset upa website www.mryatheattacom. l have calculated and found
that no play has less than 20 people. even
with actors doingdouble or triple roles. My
father was a rrran with a big canvas. There
are so many characters ; we have actors as
wellas dancers andsingers In our shows.
Will Naya Theatre retainits thrust on
soda-political plays or do you prefer
avariety}
We will keep the old productions. such as
Kamdevka Aprra BasantRim kn Sapnaand
(hamndas Char.and revive one or two oth—
ers. We will inviteguest directors tocreate
new productions. There has to be change.
otherwise wewill stagnate like apond. My
fathergot akick from theatre. He used to
believe thattheatre was a tool for social
change. i want to go with the times 1 believe that plays should have apolitical bent
but subtlyt My father was a taskrnaster. l
have seen him rehearse for 12 hours. He
has missedmanyﬂighls andtrains in
ing with tradition, l work very hard on the
actorsbefore a show.
Your troupehas lost some ofits oldst
How
do you plan tnscum actors?
l am recruiting new blood. Bhopal has a
large comrrrunity of labourers from
. Chhattisgarh who live inmigrant colonies
1have startedgoing toslums to look for actors. My father was very strict सा: could
make actors out of non-actors.
Unfortunately. the new generation does
not seem to bevery talented. but weare

क्या क्या"भ्यबांध्याग्रंव्यंtherrrantlre Nageen

puttingon track a means to work on that

laCked her father’s stature and visron and
was moreabrilliant musro‘an titana pad).

We need actors withgood voice andvirtu—
osity toperform all kinds ofsomThey can
berrrould ed into Naya Theatre's drama~
turgy. Myvision of NayaTheatre is also as
a prUl IUI
who
attend workshops and create plays here.
The struggle is still on.

breaking the-me person 'When the head
95.
[Jason
tamoVemeeds
a littleume. Everybody needs to do[mm]
है and emotionaladprsmrents.”_
Nageert
Ithas taken hermore thansix years to introduce the youp‘sSecond acLThecurrent
head O‘NaYaThfalm liageen talks about
the tests and the triumphs:

CENTRE SINCE
Nageen'l'anvir asthe queenin Ouirundas Gror. performedat theZohra Segal Festival ofthe Arts in Delhi last month
O O O

You‘ve been a part of Naya Theatre
:ﬂauglildhood. Were you youmedto

Ithought for over ayear and l decrded to
transform.

1 was notprepared for it. it fell on rrre suddenly and ।was not happy about it 1kept
blarnrngrrry fatherafterhe died thathe had
left a burden on me. 1 could not look after
the shows. accountsand the rehearsals,
and helpartistesirt their
omrarrces and
psychologically lwas fooled left. right and
centre. My father was the oldest Inthe

Whatwere thenarsformaﬁons thatyou
haveश्या about?
i carurot run it the way rrry father ran the
goup. He could sketch andsing; hewas a
damn good actor. He could understandacrors' psycholoy.lhave different skrlls. The
needs of the actors have changed. Naya
Theatre rs theonly youp inIndia thatgives

gnun

‘

" “an aeras

2r Inn: ‘-

'

a Imuer

ac and

not experienced and I wastheir age group.

paystnerrple. m.

I took the advice offriends who gave me
three options —wrnd up. qurtor transform.

among others. Complacency has setin
among artistes. I decided to break that. I

I

‘

r

v

have strict rules on allowances — we
pay a certain amount and the artistepays
the rest Prevrously. artistes had families in
villages and took leave twice a year.on
Diwali and Holi. Families livewith the
artistes now but I am strict about attendanceand professionalism
Atteryearsofabsence. NayaTheaue has
returned with two big shows
outside Bhopal this ar. We wereinvited
for Charandas Char by the Zebra Segal
Festival of the Arts. inJanuary. we staged
" ५ ‘ ‘
ldmkaSapna.acultural translation ofWilliarn Shakespeare's
A Midsummer Night’s Dream. at Sangeet

'

Natak Akaderni. and we had astanding
ovation.
What are yourplans for NayaTheatre?
My father had wanted to produceKanark.
written bylagdish Chandra Mathur. but
could not.So. we didit. It is the storyoftlre
sun templein Konark.whoseshildrar is not
ﬁtting in the cupola. It 15 up to the stone
carvers to devise a method to get it
to sit properly. But arevolt is brewing
around them and. soon. they mayhave to
light with the verystones that they create
wondersWith.
The other newplay we have is Achzrrya

Chatursen's Var’shali kiNagan/adlru. about
Amrapali.
"
‘
cessible toevery rrranin the kingdom. Isee
it as aplay on gender. because it is about
the status of women, but the story is also
about Peace. ecologyand climate. andhow
all these elements are linked.
Vulsiroll kl Nogarvadhu is a 2014 play.
n‘tyuu staged it moreoﬂen'l
We haVe not had shows since 2012.
Between2009 and 2012. we had lots of
shows. In 2013. there were only seven.
People think Naya Theatre is deador that
Nageenl-lnvirrs incapable ofrunning itBy

Did the responsibilitytake a toll on you?
| get exdted abouttheatre and i knowa lot
about it. i have seen a lot of theatre too.
from the National Theatre in England and
r

r

4

'

rhahaliandnm

tanki. But. my soul is in music In a play. if
there is good music, my mind automatically moves towards it. i have been trained
in Hindustani classical music since i was
eight. I like singing semi-classical.
ghazal and Chhattisgarhi tribal songs At a
time when । was stressed about Naya
Theatre in 2014. afriend introduced meto
Japanese Buddhism. It's about faithand it‘s
good.it tapsyour inner energyand I began
to change my attitude. I faceproblerrrs.
which wouldhave felled rrre before. more
courageously now.

. क्योंV ५~कि… क्या._... दृ

DIPAN

.—-—,. म्पाहाँ -१५ ﬂaw ~

frlbere has to be change, otherwise
we will stagnate’
‘

