RANGAKABMEE
RANGAKARMEE was formed in January, 1976, with
fundamental objectives of Promoting a socially conscious and reSponsible theatre movement, producing
those dramas which irrespectives of political views,
will be useful to the society. Presenting such socially
responsible dramas among the common people in
metrOpolitan such theatre to reach a wider audience
so that Hindi theatre can become mass-based.

RANGAKARMEE also started a conscious effort of
collaboration between Hindi Group Theatre workers
and experienced Bengali Group Theatre as well as
other Language Group Theatre WOrkers. In these
15 Years of intense dedicated activities we have

produced 15 successful productions

including

one

all
plays almost
Street Play and staged our
over India, as we have staged our plays among
workers of KIRI BURU IRON ORE
thousand
conferences, students, teachers
MINES, lot of

Busti 8 slum dwe’lers, Darjeeling 8 Siliguﬁ Drama
Festival, All India Police mee‘, W. B. Chief Minister
DrOUth Relief Fund, Expo 82, JANVADI LEKHAK
SANGH, GORKY SADAN, CESC Workers, Texrile
Workers, Trade Fair Authority of India, Delhi, All
India Youth FederationsDurgapur. So many Drama
Festivals organised by Rangakarmee 8 Regent king 8
Theatre
Anarnika,
Charvak,
Ararnbh,
Charms,

Workshop, Gandhar etc

Sirpur (Andhra Pradesh )

Panagarh. HINDI DRAMA FESTIVAL
Allahabad,
All india Drama Festival - Dehradoon
PATNA,

organised

by Sangit

Natak

Academy,

Lucknow.

Lucknow—by U. P. Sangit Natak Academy, Thousand
Tannery Workers, Street Hawker’s Association,
Behrampore Theatre Festival, C P. I. Rally where
approx. 10 Lacs PeOpIe have seen the plays,

SURAT, CALCUTTA—BOO- Drama Festival Organised
by W. B. Govt. All India Womens Festival at DELHI
(Organised by TRADE FAIR AUTHORITY OF lNDIA)at
Expression Women's Theatre Festival—Bombay. All
the places the plays were highly appreciated for its
simplicity, ou standing social value, team work and
a new type of approach to Theatre.
Four of our productions have been awarded by the

West Bengal Goverrrnent and different societies. Our
Primary am in putting up plays like Parichay, GuriaGhar, Jaat Hi Puchho Sadhuki, Mother Mahabhoj,
Purush, Lok-Katha, Apharan Bhaichareka, Holi, Vama
has been to project socially relevant ideas and
contemporary situations in a real and truthful manner.
We have been able to in our own small way, to reach
the common peOple although we feel that, with some
of the financial constraints removed we will be
capable of doing a better social service.

