श्या
श्य

ा

ABOUT THE PLAY
IHAMRIG

THE UNATTAINABLE

[ha is desire, and 02amr1§ is the deer of desire — a mirage,
the will-o—the—wisp —— which fulfilled is still never fulfilled
because even when it is fulfilled, it is never as we desire.

[hanmy is the desire to get the dewadrop from the Swati
Nakshatla of the heavens of the mind. Then that dewdrop
could be someone’s world of creativity, the stalagmites of
the awareness of love in the caverns of the mind, or the
tussle to attain the completeness of earth and space (love
and marriage) in one’s lifetime.

The weft and warp of the backdrop of ﬁlamrig has been
sought to be woven by the shuttle of history. The time is
the first half of the tenth century when the Tomars were
ruling over Anangpur, that is the area in and around the
present Meherauli, spread from the erstwhile Dhillika, to
Tughlakabad, Faridabad, and Kurukshetra. However, this
backdrop is a mere medium to depict the yearning, coming
down from times irnrnemorial, to achieve the ﬁre: and to
sustain it. That urge, coming down the ages and through
to day, will go on till who knows when.

This drama revolves around the principle of balance among
the five elements of Nature and fathorns the character
and affairs of man. Among the elements earth, wind,
rain, fire, and fifth element space, appears to be
inaccessible Iha. for, according to the materialist
philosopher, Chaarvaaka, ,that is not evidential but merely

conjectural. And what happens when this conjectural space
becomes the Iha of life? The Characters in the play—be it
Snehagandha, Anibadh, or Kumaaril Dattaatreya - almost
everyone is grappling with this comundrum which was
also the focal point of the fug of war between Chaarvaak
and Shankar. The tussle between earth and space has
been on for ages. Today, even as everybody is becoming
the earth, the forgotten sky is till at hand, albeit as the
World - the Naad.

Manm’g is a lyrical presentation of this perception through
the medium of love-relations.
MEERA KANT

श्या

M

