ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
Mushtaq Kak
Mushtaq Kak has directed over 70 plays in different languages. His
plays have been staged in Zonal as well as National theatre festivals in
various cities ofthe country. He exhibits multi-faceted talent by being
an actor, director and painter. He has conducted several theatre
workshops for adults and children, directed and produced many plays.
He has also to his credit fellowships and award from Department of
Culture, HRD on “In Search of Drishya Kavya in Indian
Contemporary Theatre”. Presently he is the Artistic Director of Shri
Ram Centre for Performing Arts. New
Delhi and has directed plays for its
Repertory Co. namely. Mahabrahman.
Kasturi Mrig, Nagar Udas. Alladad.
Main Manto Hun. Manto Ba-Qalam-

Khud, The Blood Wedding. Kamloops
Ki Machliyaan, Vasansi Jimani & with
the Acting Course Students Six
Characters in search of an author. The
Seagull, Cherry Orchard, Suraj Ka
Satwan Ghodha, Ek Aur Dronacharya.
Man Without Shadow. Evam Inderjit
& Lal Kaner.

A bout the Way
Sometimes in the desire and the expection to achieve something big—-——-we. the human beings overlook the small
happiness of life, but, these small happiness play a very important role in our life and at times even change the
direction the stream ofour life.

“Mujhe Arnrita Chahiye” is the story ofa typical middle class North Indian family. This is the story ofa girl Vijaya—a
simple and common girl with common desires, and common struggles of life. The dream ofVijaya-The actress ofthe
play is to get married, have a happy home, but continuous failure in getting a proper groom has broken her. she is
thoroughly depressed and thinks herselfto be a burden on her parents.

While leading such a depressed and gloomy life one day she gets an offer to work in a play by her friend ‘s elder sister
Anu Didi. Unwilling to work, total resentment from her mother but only with her father‘s support Vijaya finally

agrees to work.
In the play Vijaya has to play the role of ‘AMRITA’, whose character in the beginning of the play is like \'I.IAYA-

timid, insecure, and with lots of feeling of guilt. But, in the second half emerges as bold, independent. and a girl
brimming with conﬁdence who is ready to face all the challenges ofthe World.

