FO R EW O R D *

The play is not “about” something ; hopefully it is something.
And primarily it is a way of looking at man and his human nature as the
only source of the violence which has come closer and closer to में destroying
the race. It is a View which does not look toward social or political ideas
as the creators of violence, but into the nature of the human being himself.
It should be clear now that no people or political system has a monopoly
on violence.

It is also clear that the one common denominator in all

violent acts is the human being.
The ﬁrst real “story” in the bible is the murder of Abel. Before this drama
there is only a featureless paradise. But in that Eden there was peace
because man had no consciousness of himself nor any knowledge of sex or
his separateness from plants or other animals. Presumably we are being
told that the human being becomes “himself” in the act of becoming aware
of his sinfulness. He “is” what is ashamed of.
After all, the infraction of Eve is that she opened up the knowledge of
good and evil. She presented Adam with a choice. So that where choice
begins, Paradise ends, Innocence ends, for what is Paradise but the
absence of any need to choose this action? And two alternatives open
out of Eden. One is Cain’s alternative—or, if you will, Oswald’s ; to express

without limit one’s unbridled inner compulsion, i n this case to
murder, and to plead unawareness as a virtue and a defence. The other
course is what roars through the rest of the Bible and all history—
the struggle of the human race through the rnillennia to pacify the
destructive impulses of man, to express his wishes for greatness, for
wealth, for accomplishment, for love, but without turning law and peace
' ' '
into chaos.

The question which ﬁnally comes into the open in this play is, how
is that paciﬁcation to be attained ? Quentin, the central character, arrives
on the scene weighed down with a sense of his own pointlessness and the
world’s. His success as an attorney has crumbled in his hands
as he sees only his own egotism in it and no wider goal beyond himself.
He has lived through two wrecked marriages. His desperation is too
serious, too deadly to permit him to blame others for it. He is desperate
for a clear view of his own responsibility for his life, and this because

