A NOTE ON THE PLAY

Quentin, the hero of AFTER THE FALL, is a successful New York lawyer
racked by a self-doubt. After two unhappy marriages he wonders
what right he has to take on the responsibility of a third—with an
intelligent European girl.
Trying to assess himself, Quentin recalls crucial episodes in his life:
quarrels with his ﬁrst wife, a meeting with Maggie on a park bench, a visit
to the site of a German concentration camp. Time and space
melt away. The dead come back to life and die once more. Old hurts
hurt again. For there are no trafﬁc rules for memories. In this parade
of memories Quentin becomes involved with family, friends, women and—
since he was once a Communist—some bristly political problems.
His ﬁrst marriage turns sour : his wife says he treats her as if she didn’t
exist. Then comes his fateful marriage to Maggie, the role which is reputed
to suggest Marilyn Monroe and for which Miller has been vehemently
criticized. Miller himself says “The character of Maggie, is not
in fact Marilyn Monroe. Maggie is a character in a play about
the human animal’s unwillingness or inability to discover in himself
the seeds of his own destruction. Maggie is in this play because
she most perfectly exempliﬁes the self-destructiveness which ﬁnally
comes when one views oneself as pure victim. And she most perfectly
exempliﬁes this view because she comes so close to being a pure
victim—of parents. of a Puritanical sexual code and of her exploitation as
an entertainer. The character of Maggie is quite obviously treated
not only with respect for her agony but with love.”

Quentin ends his odyssey of self-discovery by ﬁnding out what he really is
and truly believes. “The wish to kill is never killed,” Quentin
concludes, after he has come to terms with himself and decided he is

ﬁt to undertake a third marriage, “But with some gift of courage
one may look into its face when it appears, and with a stroke of love—

as to an idiot in the house—forgive it : again and again ...... forever.”

