movement. This is very fortunate, for the tradition of the theatre,
its literary values and its other historic and educational values are
preserved here. While being taught the literatures of the world, the
students can also learn to play the dramas of the great theatrical past.
At the same time in the University Theatre workshops, young
writers and actors are moulded. Prof. Baker of Harvard University,

while teaching Shakespeare, also taught the drama classes and
originated the movement. Although it is true that you cannot create
a genius such as Shakespeare, Moliere or Kalidasa yet a young writer
can be taught by giving him the fundamentals rules of playuwriting,
and that is what Prof. Baker did.

A play-wright must see his work on the stage just as a scientist
must see a chemical formula proved by way of experiment. Students
usually begin by writing one—act plays and producing them in their
workshop theatre. This phase of theatre activity in the schools and
colleges contributes in a large measure to the theatre movement of
the country, and it is mostly here rather than in the professional
theatre that we ﬁnd classical drama played. The students perform
many foreign classical works including the Indian classics as well as
the English ones. The opportunities afforded here bring out the
real talent of many a young play-wright and some of the plays produced in university theatres have become real successes. These
Educational Theatres are patronised not only by the students in the
schools and colleges, but also by people in the local communities just
as are the professional theatres.
The third section of the theatre movement in the United States
is the Community Theatre, where usually one or two or even three
people are employed; a director, a technical man and a business
man. This is the nucleus of the semi-professional theatres
throughout the country. All the other members of the company are
amateurs. There are a large number of these in America which

.SpaCe kindly donated by :
A. K. ROY, 3. 56. (6145. ), A. M. /. E.

Consulting Engineer
Phone : 46-5275

15, S n inhoe Street, Ballygunge

