afford an opportunity for all the persons interested in the stage to
take part in them.
'
This is the over-all pattern of the theatre movement in America.
You will be interested to know that the theatre has no Govern—
ment subsidy whatsoever in the United States, such as you ﬁnd
in France where the National Theatre has been supported generously
from the time of Louis XIV. There they have ﬁve theatres supported
by the Government; the opera, comic-opera, Comedie Francaise,
Odeon & Popular Theatre. The French theatre is centralized in Paris
and the Government puts large sums of money into this ﬁeld.
In England as in America there was no provision. It is only
since the Second World War that we see the Government giving
considerable sums of money to the Old Vic Theatre and the opera
and;ballet.

In America we still have no real National Theatre. I am

glad to ﬁnd that in India there is a recognition of the value of
theatre, even though you do not yet have a National Theatre
anymore than we do.
One pertinent problem is how to operate internationally. For
this purpose, :the International Theatre Institute was founded in
1948-49 by UNESCO. and was modestly ﬁnanced by it. The
International Theatre Institute is sustained morally, and to some
extent ﬁnancially through centres organised in various countries and
I have the honour to be the founder of one of the eight original
centres—the United States Center run by the American National
Theatre and Academy.
One forward step the India Centre of I TI has taken is the
invitation extended to the International Iheatre Institute to come to
Bombay and to hold the “First World Conference on Theatre”.
There were some twenty countries represented and the meeting was
held for 5 days commencing 28th October 1956, to which representad
tives from many countries —East and West came.

One may wonder what has been done by such a meeting. In
my opinion the fact that the meeting was held was all important.
We assembled to discuss all sorts of problems and though they

cannot readily be answered or solved we could exchange vieWs,
८८८…. ८८ ८८८-क्या

Space kindlydonated byTA/VT/ABROTHERS (P) [71)
1 & 2, Old Court House Corner, Calcutta-l

