discuss how to make the best plays available mitually and so on and
so forth. The most important action of the Conference was a
motion to request U.N.E.S.C.O. to set up an “Asian Theatre Faculty”
under the sponsorship. of I.T.I.

I would like to describe brieﬂy some of the activities of the
I.T.I. I would like you to know of the existance of the I.T.I., and
particularly to know that there is an India Centre which is very
active and of which the Calcutta Centre forms an important part.
The primary advantage of knowing and aligning oneself with
the IT. I. is that one can get all possible information and contacts
regarding the Theatre and its people between the various members
of I. T. I. These are very helpful to the persons interested in
the ﬁeld.

We have a magazine called World Theatre, which is valuable
to everyone interested in the theatre. It is published four times a
year and deals with diﬁerent subjects. There is also a booklet for
theatre directors and people interested in plays, which is published
ten times a year. This brochure is published in Paris where all the
information is sent from the different countries. It contains tech
nical details, short summaries and other details of the new plays
produced in the different countries. Besides these, there is a dictionary of technical terms, which is very helpful to theatrical troupes
when they go from one country to another.
In the United States we have an International Theatre Month.
This provides excellent means of participation in I. T. I. by groups
outside New York.
In conclusion, I am glad to report that in spite of many pro;blerns the American Theatre maintains a high level of efﬁciency in
dramatic production. This is partly the result of the fact that good
wages are paid to theatre people, both the actors and technicians,
not to speak of the play‘wrights, who therefore necessarily give a
good account of themselves. There is also a growing tendency to
simplify production as much as possible. The popular taste is more
for the new :works than for the classics. This does not mean,

Space kindly donated by

MES’S’RS P. CHATTERJEE

7, Garstin Place: Clacu’tta-l

