On his return he cherished the idea of establishing an intimate theatre to
launch drama movement, which took shape in the form of Theatre Centre
, an
afﬁliated body to the international Theatre Institute of UNESC
OSince then he achieved success after success not only as an actor-producer
but as a playwright of outstanding merit. The plays, written under th
e pen-name
of Dhananjoy Bairagi, are—‘Dhritarashtra’, ‘Rupoli Chand’, ‘Ek-Pashla—Brist
i’, etc.
His debut in the professional theatre in I 959 at Rungmahal Theatre, w
here

he appeared as playwright-producer-actor by presenting ‘Ek Mutho
Akash’ and
‘Ek Peyala Coffee‘ with great success. Sri Roy’s recent plays—‘Aar Habe Na
Deri’
and ‘Rajanigandha’ produced at Theatre Centre-—have been acclaimed by
the press
and indiscriminating play-goers. He has added another feather to his ca
p by ably

dramatising and brilliantly producing Sri Dilip Kurnar Roy’s ‘Aghat
an Ajo Ghate’
at Theatre Centre. Sri Roy has also established himself as a promisin
g novelist.

Tapas Sen
Born in September, I924. From boyhood he was interested in electr
icity,
radio mechanism and cinematography. Started his career as an Electrical
Supervisor
in the Central Govt. Service at Delhi. There he produced and
directed two

shadow-plays—‘BhushandirMathe’ and ‘Kshudhita Pashan’.

He is also a founder

member of I. P. T. A., Delhi Branch.
In I946 he left the government service and joined Sri Dilip Gupta at
Bombay
as an assistant cameraman in the ﬁlm line.

Leaving that line also after a year he
came to Calcutta and produced again at New Empire his shadow-play ‘Bhushandi
r
Mathe’ in I947. From that time he was connected with Jatiya Natya Pari
shad and
handled lighting of its productions. Gradually his ﬁeld of work extended
and he
got actively connected with Bengal Provincial I. P. T. A., Bahurupee, Little
Theatre

Group, C. L. T. and many other institutions. Success after success brought him
recognition and fame ; but recognition from the professional stage came as late as
I 956.

Joined Biswaroopa Theatre and created illusion on the stage.
Sri Sen was a member of the Theatre Delegation sent by the Govt. of . India in
I959 to visit Russia, Germany and other countries. The tour helped him a lot to

e n rich h is knowledge.
At present he is connecced with Minerva Theatre, Theatre Centre, Theatre '
Unit and some other amateur organisations.

Touday Sri Sen—by his devotion and

integrity—has established himself as one of the leading directors of lighting in this
country.

Sunil Madhav Sen
Born in I9l0 at Purulia. At the age of 9 a big image of Goddess Durga
left a deep impression in his mind and he made a drawing of the image for the

Space kindly clonazeldbfh/I/s. 5.4/3 BANERJEE comsmucnoxv (P) / 71),
20, Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19.

