His recent achievements in the ﬁeld of decor are connected with different

groups. These are—‘Gotrantar’ by Calcutta Theatre, ‘Rajanigandha’ and ‘Aar Habe
Na Deri’ by Mukhosh; ‘Streer Patra’ by Group Theatre, -‘Ghar Bahar’ by Anamika
and ‘Krishna Chura’ by Theatre Unit.

Tarun Prosad Mitter'
Born in December, I928. Took‘ keen interest in drama at college in Calcutta
and represented Ashutosh College in - the Inter Collegiate Drama Competition in
I945. Was actively connected with Jatiya Natya Parishad—a club theatre—since
I949 and lent his voice in its productions—‘KshudhitaPashan’ and ‘Guptadhan',
Afterwards lent his voice as a play-back singer in the Bengali films—‘Durgesh
Nandini’. ‘Ma Sitala’ and ‘Pushpadhanu‘. His debut as back-stage singer. in a
professional theatre was at Rungmahal in the play—‘Ek Peyala Coffee’. Also
worked as an assistant director in the ﬁlm—~ ‘ Dukshe Jader Jiban Gara.’

At present

connected with Mukhosh, and has lent his voice in the play—‘Aghatan Ajo Ghate’.

Gouri Sankar Banerjee
Born in I335 B. S. Obtained a
College of Arts and Draftsmanship in
and started designing sets for club
Joined Mukhosh in I960 and designed
the make-ups.

diploma in Arts and Crafts from Indian
I952. Since took keen interest in theatre
theatres. Worked with Bahurupee in I958.
sets for the play—‘Alik Babu’. He also does

Parimal Roy
Born in I923 at Calcutta. He was extremely interested in theatre while at
school. In I948 he came in contact with Sri Tarun Roy and joined latiya Natya

Parishad. Till I953 he worked with it I in - different capacities _and also appeared
in its productions}; From I954 to I958 he was away in England for studies. At
that time he was connected with British Film Institute, London. On his return

to India he has joined the: Executive Committee of Theatre Centre.
a Secretary of Mukhosh.

Sri Roy is also

Arun Ghatterjee
Born‘ in I925.

capacities.

Joined Jatiya Natya Parishad in I949 and served it in different

He also appeared in its plays.

He is one of the founder members of

Theatre Centre and has been in its Executive Committee since its inception. Sri
Chatterjee is'also connected with Mukhosh from the time of its birth and holds
the position of its Secretary.

555.12.; ki'hal’ly click-diary;

M/S’. KA/VAK INVESTMENT l/M/TED

41, Chowringhee, Calcutta-16

