‘Alik Babu’. Also appeared in ‘Alamgir’ and ‘Michael’ in I958 under the direction
of the late $isir Kumar Bhaduri. Joined Mukhosh in I96I and appeared in the plays
—-‘A|ik Babu’ and ‘Aghatan Ajo Ghate'. She is also an exponent of classical music
and holds the diploma ‘Geetasri’.

Pranata Ghosh
Born in I930. Started acting at the age of I5 at school in Calcutta. His
debut in professional theatre was in I950 at Kalika Theatre in the play ‘Juga
Devata'. Since appeared in the plays—‘Ram Prosad’, ‘Topobal', ‘Raidharma'.
‘Kalyani’, ‘Chandrasekhor', ‘Prafulla’, etc. Joined Mukhosh in l96l and appeared in
the play ‘Aghatan Ajo Ghate’. He is an A. I. R. artist. Also appeared in a Bengali
ﬁlm.

Ajit Mitra
Born In I 9 I6. Started acting while at school in I926 at Calcutta. Since I938
directed many plays produced by club theatres and also acted in them. At that
time he was an A. I. R. artist and a script writer. Later on joined I. P. T. A. and
appeared in many plays. Also directed some plays under its banner. He has been
connected with the ﬁlm-circle of Bengal for a long time and has worked as an

assistant director in some ﬁlms besides acting. The Cine Advance award for the
‘Best Artist of the year’ In amateur productions was received by him in I 958. Joined
Mukhosh in I960 and appeared in the play—‘Alik Babu’. He is also a playwright.
The titles of the plays are ~- ‘Pratlkar’, ‘Palta Palti', etc.

'I‘arapada Bhattacharjee
Born in October |9I0. Joined the Magura Theatre ( Jessore ) In I924 as an
amateur. Thereafter appeared in many plays at Jessore, Nilphamari, Asansol,
Dhanbad, Purulia & Barakar. First appearance on Calcutta stage in I949 at Minerva
Theatre in the play ‘Thamao Raktapat’ by Jaladhar Chatterjee. Joined Mukhosh in
I959. Appeared in the plays—“Kshudhita Pashan’, ‘RaJanigandha’. ‘Aar Habe Na Deri’
and ‘Aghatan Ajo Ghate'.

Gobinda Chakraborty
Born in I928. Started acting in I944 while at college in Calcutta. Joined
Mukhosh in | 955 and appeared in different roles. The plays are—‘Dhritarashtra',

‘Rupoli Chand'. ‘Kshudhita Pashan’, ‘Aar Habe Na Deri’, ‘Alik Babu’ sand ‘Aghatan
Ajo Ghate’. Also acted in some Bengali ﬁlms. He is also the stage-in-charge of
Theatre Centre.

Space kindly donated by
_'IXport 8c Import Dept.

BANGl/R BROTHERS ND.

14, Netaji Subhas Road, Cal-l.

