Among the traditional forms of Indian Theatre, Kutiyattam has a
unique and an exalted place. Believed to be our only surviving link
with the ancient Sanskrit theatre, Kutiyattam has been practised,
preserved and developed over centuries by the Chakyars of Kerala.
Sangeet Natak Akademi takes great pleasure in presenting this
national festival of Kutiyattam in Delhi. It is the first time that a
major event focussed on this important tradition of Indian theatre is
held in the Capital.
Kutiyattam Mahotsavam comes :18 an extension of a special
project of support to Kutiyattam being implemented by the Akademi
for the last four years. Though Akaderni has been providing some
measure of support to this rare art for many years, it is in April 1991
that a special project was initiated to provide direct substantial
assistance which made a signiﬁcant impact.
Performing in the festival are several leading artistes of
Kutiyattam including the great master Guru Ammannur Madhava
Chakyar, Akademi awardee Guru M. Kochukuttan Chakyar and the
renowned expert of Mizhavu Guru P.K. Narayanan Nambiar. Among
other eminent artistes featured in the festival are Shri CK. Krishnan
Nambiar and Shri Kitangur Kuttappan Chakyar. Participating in the
festival are three renowned institutions of Kutiyattam — Kerala
Kalamandalam, Cheruthuruthy; Margi, Thiruvananthapuram and

Ammannur Chachu Chakyar S maraka Gurukulam, Irinjalakuda. The
Mani Madhav Chakyar S maraka Gurukulam, Lakkidi will also be
represented through Guru PK. Narayanan Nambiar. Among the
traditional Chakyar families, the Arnrnannur, the Potiyil, the Koyppa,
the Mani and the Kitangur will be represented in the festival.
An interesting and significant feature of the festival is the
inclusion of Nangiar Kuttu, the dance theatre of the Nangiar women.
An offshoot of Kutiyattam, Nangiar Kuttu tells the stories of
Krishna’s life through enactment of 217 slokas from Srikrishna
Charitam .
The festival features eleven performances presenting different
acts and scenes from four well—known ancient Sanskrit dramas
namely : Ascharyac/iudamani of S hakti bhadra,
Subliminal/z(mcmjaya of Kulasekhara Varman, A bit is'eka Nataka of
Bhasa and B/iugavadajjukiyam of Bodhayana. Excerpts from some

Sangeet Natak Akademi—
the National Academy of
Music, Dance and Drama—
was founded in 1953 for the
furtherance of the performing
arts of India, a task in which
it cooperates with counterparts
in the States and voluntary
organisations all over the

country. Through sponsorship,
research and dissemination it
seeks to achieve an enhanced
public appreciation of music,
dance and drama. together
with a quickened exchange of
ideas and techniques for the
common gain of Indian
performing arts.

