KU'I‘I YAT'I’A M
(Excerpts from 'Trwtional Indian Theatre ' by
Dr Kapila Vatsyayan, 1980)

Kutiyattam is easily the most prominent survivor
among the forms containing some essential elements
of content and structural features of the Sanskrit
theatre.
It is. however, also the precursor and pioneer of
traditions of the Indian theatre which developed in
different parts of India since the 10th century,
roughly coinciding with the breakdown of the unity
provided by Sanskrit and the growth of regional
languages and literature. Into its making went many
elements. some drawn faithfully from the
conventions of Sanskrit theatre, both in content and
form. and others which were totally regional with
tribal or ritualistic roots unique to Kerala-While
scholars are correct in often calling Kutiyattam the
only surviving tradition of Sanskrit theatre, it must
be remembered that Kutiyattam has also unmistaken
links with and elements from traditions which have
little or nothing to do with the Sanskrit theatre.
There were several parallel developments in
language and literature in Kerala by the time
Kulasekhara wrote his plays. Original Malayalam
poetry, its ballads and chants were in existence in the
rich traditions of the Centarnil literature which had
flourished for many centuries. Co-existent were the
establishment of several schools of Sanskrit learning
and Hindu, Buddhist and Jain thought which reached
Kerala early. Many schools and academies of Vedic,
Buddhist and Jain thought grew up. By the 8th
century Kerala seems to have assimilated Sanskrit so
totally that literature of many disciplines was writen
in that language. This is borne out by the many
works on grammar, linguistics. philosophy (including
that of Sankara). astronomy, science. architecture,
sculpture and music which were composed in Kerala
beIWeen the 6th and 16th centuries. all in Malayalam
script but in Sanskrit language. It is not surprising,
therefore, that Kulasekhara, the author of the two
Kutiyattam plays. should reﬂect the contemporary
situation of Kerala which presented a picture of a
unique blend of many strands, both social and
cultural. some which bad links with traditions
outside Kerala and some which were wholly
indigenous to the region.
Developments in the other arts, particularly those
of architecture. sculpture, painting and music. are
also relevant for understanding the growth of
Kutjyattarn. Although no early examples of
architecture survive, even the late ones of theatre
architecture exhibit identifiable links with
architectural features of the theatre described in the
Naryasasn'a.
. . . . The Kuttambalam, the traditional theatre of
Kutiyattam, has the same affinities with the larger
Indian or Sanskrit tradition on the one hand and a
distinctive, almost unique, regional character on the
other.
. . . . In course of time, about the 12th century,

the practice of Kutiyattam led to the writing of the
manuals and texts which gave theoretical sanction
and laid down rules and procedures of performance.
The most important of these manuals being the
Attaprakaram written in Manipravala, and the
Kramadipika. The ﬁrst details the techniques of
acting and elaborates on the meanings of the form of
a sustained story. in order to assist the actor in
enacting through gestures and movements the
content of the play. The second lays down the rules,
regulations and procedures for staging these plays
and the treatment of the songs, dances, ragas. and
the rest.
. . . . Kutiyattarn is the evolved dramatic form
where both men and women take part. Since
Kulasekhara wrote his plays the repertoire has been
greatly enlarged and today nearly a dozen
Kutiyattam plays are known to Kerala. Some of these
are adaptations (or recensions) of earlier Sanskrit
plays, presented in Kutiyattam style, others are
original plays written for a Kutiyattam performance.
Subhadradhananjaymn and Taptisamevaranam
are attributed to Kulasekhara. Others are
Arcaryacudamani of Shaktibhadra; Naganandam of
Harsa; Pratijnayaugandharavanam.
Svapnavruvadatta. Pratimanatakam. Balacharitam
and Abhirekanatakam of Bhasa; MaItavilasam and
Bhagavadajjukiyam of King Mahendra Vikrama: and
Dutaghatotkacam and Kalyana Saugandhikam of
Nil akanth a.
. . . . Kutiyattam performances nevertheless
continued and survived through the guarded
discipline of the Cakyar families who became the
sole repositories of both the literary and theatrical
traditions of this particular form of theatre.
According to scholars, there were 18 Cakyar families
who performed the Kutiyattam. Some years ago
Kunjunni Raja listed six such families and today
only three can be mentioned. Among the best known
performers are Koyppa Rama Cakyar of Painkulam.
Mani Madhava Cakyar of Potiin and Ammannur
Madhava Cakyar.
. . . . The surviving families of the Cakyars are
the direct descendants of those whose works have
come down to us and who are frequently referred to
in other works of Malayalam literature during the
last eight hundred years or more.
. . . . The secret of the survival of the Kutiyattam
lies as much in the ability of the Cakyar community
to safeguard and preserve traditions of an earlier
epoch as in their ability to adapt to new situations. to
respond to local and immediate concerns, and to be
fiexible enough to be able to give their presentation
contemporary validity and significance. Had the
Cakyars merely restricted themselves to the form
which was given to them by Kulasekhara. there was
every chance of the breakdown or the annihilation of
the tradition. The innovative flexibility which was
provided by the T‘olan to the character of the
vidusaka through the use of local dialect and the
liberty of ridiculing the four sacrosanct Pumsarthar
must have given the form enough scope for renewal.
re-interpretation and improvisation. The Kutiyattam

11

