12

traditions today are thus not museum pieces of a
distant past. but belong to contemporary India
through their satire, social comment and concern
with here and now.
. . . . What about the theatrical presentation
itself? What does it constitute. how does it move. and
what are its chief tools of technique and implements
of corrununication? The first and foremost is the
physical space in which it is performed, the theatre
called the Kuttambalam.
. . . . There is valuable textual material on the
construction of the Kuttambalam: most of this.
however, belong to a period long after the 9th and
10th centuries. While it is not certain that these
structures existed at the time of Kulasekhara, he
certainly took the architectural style and floor pattern
of the theatre into account while evolving the
methodologies of the presentation of Kutiyattam.
. . . . The texts as well as the actual
archaeological survivals bear testimony to the fact
that the Kuttambalam was part and parcel of the
temple complex with a well-conceived plan and basic
layout. It is found on the right side of the installed
deity and the texts prescribe this placement. All the
Kerala theatres (i.e.. those that are near the temples)

face the deity in the temple in a parallel axis.
. . . . The auditorium and the stage area are
clearly demarcated. The stage is normally a square or
nearly a square on a raised platform. It is so
constructed that it nearly always faces the deity and
the actors perform facing the god. It is made of a
hollow stone base. which is ﬁlled with earth and
rubble and plastered with cow-dung. On each side is
a pillar. painted and lacquered in bright red; these
pillars support an inner roof over the stage.
. . . . At the back of the stage is the wall of the
nepathya or dressing room. T‘wo narrow doors make
for entrance and exit of actors, reminiscent of the
descriptions in the Natyasastra. Between the two
doors are placed the two copper drums or mizhavus.
the basic accompaniment of Kutiyattam: they are
placed in a cage-like wooden frame. called pinjam.
The nepathya or green room is a narrow
rectangular room running parallel to the width of the
stage usually lower than the stage level. occasionally
at the same level as the auditorium ﬂoor. The stage
pillars are different in shape. design and colouring
than the auditorium pillars. Their distribution on the
acting area helps the audience and enables the actor
to establish particular ‘locale‘ for the different
scenes even within this limited space. The
auditorium area is one flat level lower than the stage
area. only sometimes raised on either side, stage
right or left, pOssibly corresponding to the
matlavarni of the Natiw‘astm over which there has
been much controversy amongst Sanskrit scholars.
The auditorium has rows of large pillars on either
side. front and back and smaller ones on the outside
and still smaller ones on the outer side. The pillars
are made of wood or stone. or sometimes with a
stone base and wooden pillar, all these end in an
ornamental shaft or capital. The whole gives the
effect of a concave but like structure which is richly

adorned and proportionately laid out spatially inside,
with multiple roofs, gables and reefs. Indeed, the
outside of a Kuttambalam gives no impression of the
inner design and structure of the stage or the
auditorium.
Even this brief description of the Kuttarnbalam
will make it clear that the Kutiyattam and other
forms of drama were presented in a highly
formalized constructed structure which took into
account stage, green room and auditorium areas. The
play itself is performed in this Kuttambalarn and is
in turn a highly evolved form of drama with many
intricate preliminaries and preludes. A full
performance takes many nights to perform . The
preliminaries constitute an important part of the
performance and are essential to other forms of
dance and dance-drama in other parts of India.
The Natyasastra describes many preliminaries
called the Purvaranga and Bharata devotes two
chapters to it. The Kutiyattam performance today is a
direct carry-over of this tradition, although in some
details the two differ.
. . . . The performance begins with the lighting of
the bell-metal oil lamp, with two wicks facing the
actor and one facing the audience. The eight
auspicious offerings. called the Aslamangala. consist

of different grains, fruits. flowers. etc. and are also
placed close by. The mizhavu drum is tuned and the
Nambyar plays on it aceompanied by cymbals and
the song sung by the Nanyar (also known as Naniyar
and Nangyar). The song invokes deities like
Ganapati. Sarasvati and Siva The invocation to
Ganapati or Sarasvati and sometimes Siva are also
common to preliminaries of other dance forms in
almost all parts of India. These songs are either
called gosthi or Akkitta Kuttuka.
The next sequence is the Nambyarute 'I'runil
wherein the Nambyar presents a brief resume of the
story to be enacted. This is often pure Malayalam
with plenty of Sanskrit words. Next, the stage is
cleaned by sprinkling with water; this is known as
the Arannutali. The Nambyar leaves the drum after
the Akkitta fetches sacred water from the green
room. sprinkles it and recites the triangular/aka.
This is followed by the dhruva verses sung by the
female musician. the Nangyar; these verses allude to
the preview birth of the character who is going to
appear on the stage. These correspond closely to the
dhruva songs alluded to in the Nutyasaslru. The
dhrum songs set the tone of the play and are sung in
appropriate ragas
Then enter two persons holding a curtain before
the entrance of the main character can take place
The actor comes and stands behind the curtain to the
accompzuiiment of the music of the mizhavu drums
and other instruments, Later. he performs many steps
and movements to the accompaniment of the singing
Nanyar.
. . . . The first day‘s performance ends with these
movemean or kriym. The basic stance is a ‘grand
plie open position‘ or what may be identified with
the mandalarthana of the Nutyuxurtra and space is
covered in rectangles. The nn'tla position of

