Kathakali owes much to these movements originally
evolved for Kutiyattam. These preliminaries
constitute an important part of the performance of
Kutiyattam.
. . . . The next phase, i.e., of nirvahana, also a

angikabhinaya of the Sanskrit stage and Naryasarlra
is taken further here by exploring the possibilities
not only of multiple meaning but also of the syllables
and syntax of a sentence. Inter-questions and answers
characterize the interpretative portions of the
angikabhinaya; elaboration and ornamentation on the
text are encouraged and permissible. This tradition
perhaps culminated in that of the coliyattam and
rnanodharrna in Kathakali. However, the highly
developed and stylized techniques of Kutiyattam
remain a class by themselves and have never been
excelled by any other dance or drama or theatrical
forms in India.

preliminary rite, is unique to the Kutiyattam . This
begins on the second day. The character introduces
himself by presenting his personal history prior to
the ‘time—span’ which is the subject matter of the
play proper. Since most characters and heroes belong
to known myth and legend, the actor chooses freely
the particular myth or legend associated with the
character. The flashback technique is very
dexterously utilised, either by narrating incidents
backward one by one or forward, i.e., begining with
the birth or youth and moving to the time present.
The first is known as Anukrama and the second as
Samksepa. The nirvahana is a clever device for both
solo monoacting and character portraiture which sets
the tenor of the actual dramatic performance. The
Indian drama for the best part does not lay great
emphasis on character development and growth; the
Kutiyattam tradition provides a full scope for
character delineation through the convention of the
nirvahana. It is signiﬁcant to note that the actor on
the stage does not use any speech in this phase; the
verses are recited by the Nanyar and follow the
pantomime presented by the dancer/actor rather than
preceding it. In this respect, the Kutiyattam adheres
to some techniques of abhinaya described in the
Natyasastra, particularly the conventions of suchi
and ankara forms of angikabhinaya.
. . . . The vidusaka of Kutiyattarn thus belongs to
a different category than the vidushaka of Sanskrit
drama, where he does not depart from the text of the
plays. Here he improvises, interpolates and has the
freedom for wide deviations and departures. In this
respect, the Kutiyattam heralds a totally new
tradition in Indian theatre, a tradition which has
continued and survived in practically all temple and
street theatre forms. In stage technique, although
viduraka is master of the spoken word (i.e.

Prakrit passages through a method which is unique to
Kutiyattam; this is a slow syllable by syllable
recitation.
The second component of vacikabhinaya is the
vocal music of the Nanyar who sings the invocatory
verses. The benedictory verses fall into a second
category and the manner of their recitation is quite

vacikabhinaya), in contrast to the kinetic and

different from the recitation techniques of the actors,

pantomime technique of the nirvahana of other
characters, he is a consummate artist who
understands and re-interprets the Sanskrit verses and
the gestures of the main character. He also gives
discourses on or debates the basic tenets of
philosophic schools and religious dogmas.
. . . . The structure of a Kutiyattam performance
can be broken up into neat sequence such as (i) the
initial ritual or invocatory; (ii) purappadu and other
preliminaries behind the curtain which contain the

the Cakyars.
rendering of which has a distinct tonality.
Fourthly, there are the prose renderings of
vidusaka which demand yet another mode and
method of voice production and speech articulation.
Finally, there are the slokas, the verses of the
play itself, constituting the fifth component of
vacikabhinayu Each sloka is set to a particular raga
corresponding to particular situations, types, moods,

body. of nma technique of the form; (iii) nirvahana

or to particular animal or bird world, season of the

of the character which is solo-acting with much
abhinaya but little pure dancing; (iv) nirvahana of
the vidusaka; (v) the presentation of the play where

year, time of day, etc. Nearly twenty such ragas are
frequently used in the Kutiyattam repertoire.
The angikabhinaya of Kutiyattam, however, is
the last word in the theatrical technique of the use of
eyes and eyebrows, facial muscles, torso and hands.
A full and elaborate vocabulary of movements is the
essence of a Kutiyattam perfbrrnance. Legendary
stories have grown up around the consummate skill
of the Kutiyattam actor and his ability to recreate

all actors chant or speak their lines and gesticulate;
and (vi) the final benediction.

. The Kutiyattam manuals like many dance
texts and commentaries found in Kerala elaborate
and develop this tradition. The word-gesture
relationship in the concepts of vacika and

Here then is an amalgam of spoken work, recited

and sung by the Nambyars and the Nanyar and
chanted by the hero, vidusaka and other characters

during the main body of the play; instrumental music
which precedes, follows and accompanies movement
which is abstract as in purappadu and other
preliminaries; movement that is interpretative
through a highly evolved language of hand gestures
(hastabhinaya) and facial gestures (mukhabhinaya),
as also the movement of the eyes (netrabhinaya)

performed by actors who use costume and make—up
through a symbolism of colour and design. The
whole ultimately seeks to invoke the inner states of
mind and being. All this is presented on a theatre
specially built for the purpose where acting areas are
clearly demarcated and lighting is subdued but
clearly designed. In traditional terms, all the four
types of abhinaya (enacting) are used to the fullest,
independently and in conjunction with each other.
As has been mentioned above, the vacikabhinaya
can be broken up into the following five divisions.
First, there is the recitation of the Sanskrit and

Thirdly, there is the music of the Nambyar the

13

