situations and episodes powerfully through facial
gestures and hands. Here also, as in the case of
varikabhinaya. there is a multiplicity of idiom and
communication methodology as listed below :
(i) There are the purely abstract movements
without meaning, which are seen in the cavittu kriya
and in the other preliminaries.
(ii) There are then the dance sequences which

constitute a part of the purappadu and have
occasionally an element of pantomime. The basic
position is the open spread out grand plie or

14

mandalasthanam of the lower limbs which is
common to Kathakali and Kutiyattam. The nritla
element is strong although not as elaborate as in
Kathakali. Careful distinctions are made between
different types of choreographical passages which
occur in the nrtya krier They are known by names
like ceriya cokkam. 0r entrance movements,
calliyunti nata for graceful sedate movements etc.
(iii) There is also an interpretative movement
related to the word recited or sung and which is
general in character and pertains to the whole body.
This is known as the Cakiyattam (also coliyattam in
Kathakali but different).
(iv) There is then the line-to-line, word-to-word

and syllable-to-syllable interpretation through
harlabhinaya and netrabhinaya (acting through the
mediums of hands and eyes respectively),
accompanied either with the recitation of the actor

himself or with the song of the Nanyar. The
netrabhinaya, particularly. is a highly intricate
system of expression through the eyes.
(v) Since the Kutiyattam provides enough scope
for improvisation and interpolation, there comes a
stage when the recitative or sung word is used only
as a take-off point for interpretative dancing which is
highly contextual in character and requires a vast
knowledge and deep understanding of the ‘allusions‘.
The form. thus, is full of interpretative and
pantomimic movements, and the greatness of an
actor lies in his capacity for multiple interpretation
of the word.
(vi) The face and its muscles constitute another

subgroup which is of the utmost importance in
Kutiyattam. Techniques of expressing emotion
through a controlled use of facial muscles have

evolved in Kutiyattarn to a degree unparalleled
anywhere else. The Kathakali uses some of these
techniques, but those of the Kutiyattam are more
complex.
(vii) The micro-movements of the eyes (the
m)!ruhhinuyu). through which the Kutiyattam actors
often express complex situations or emotions. are a
class by themselves.
The techniques of costurning and make-up used
in the aharyubhimtya reinforce this vision of
presenting character and emotion impersonally and
through a distinctive stylization. Although the
virlmaka is real and contemporary. he too is not
overportrayed realistically. A basic design is
followed by characters with regard to the costuming
which has some affinities with Kathakali but is quite

distinct. No large oversize impression is created; in
the Kutiyattam the costumes are designed to be
viewed frontally.
The make-up of Kutiyattam resembles that of
Kathakali, but is somewhat simpler, although the
basic colour symbolism is identical. The different
types of make-up are the Pazhuppa of slightly
reddish colour used for heroes, kings, and dhirodatta
characters; the princes like Arjuna, Mitravasu and
Rama use pacce (green-syam); the aborigines,
mums, and Surpanakha use the kari (black); and
characters like Ravana use the kam' (literally. knife,
i.e., basic red colour) with a pith-ball on the top of
the nose as in Kathakali. The manner of applying the
culti (or lining with rice flour paste) is not markedly
different from Kathakali. The ingredients used are
identical and comprise turmeric powder, red arsenic,
verrnilion (caliyam), charcoal powder. Indian blue,
rice powder (abhra), red Techchii ﬂowers. Nonnana

grass, bamboo sticks, oork and the outer covering of
the arecanut, palm, etc. These indigenous items are
also used in the make-up of characters of other
forms, but in India Kutiyattam, Kathakali and
Yaksagana have the most highly elaborate and
stylized techniques of make-up and headgears.
With its external as well as internal elements. the
Kutiyattarn is at once a highly symbolic. abstract and
self-conceived design (which some scholars have
compared to a vedic ritual) on the one hand and a
very concrete form allowing for specificity,
particularity and conternporaneity on the other. We
observe also that while it has close connections with
temple—ritual and court drama, it is not an exclusive
art meant only for the select elite. It seeks to
establish, and does establish, communication with

the people, with both the initiated and the
uninitiated. In this respect, it is typical of the Indian
theatre arts, which are seldom, if ever, restricted to a
particular class or caste of audience even though the
actors or performers may represent a particular
community or caste. The Kutiyattam incorporates
into its acting styles many elements, some
indigenous to Kerala, others (like the
angikabhinaya), derived from the Sanskrit tradition.
The same amalgam is noticed in the use of language
which ranges from Sanskrit to Manipravala to
colloquial Malayalam.
While some of its conventions (like aspects of the
I’rm'amngu) belong to the Sanskrit tradition, others
like the nirvuhwza are its own distinctive features. It
shares with the rest of Indian theatre many features
and stock conventions of the hero types, the (ianesa
wmdana. the vidruaka, etc.
Its presentation style borrows elements from all
the arts and rests heavily on the literary word, the
architectural design of the theatre, the sculptural
motif, the painting motifs seen in mural painting.
and the musical modes. Thus, it is a total theatre
where all genres of the word (spoken or written).
movement (macro and micro. abstract or

interpretative). costume, make-up and design are
woven together to constitute one integrated whole.

