AUTHOR, TEXT, PERFORMANCE
24 M arch l 99 5

KUTIYAT'TAM

UDYA NA PRAV ES A M
from Ashokavanikankam, Ascharyachudamani
(Act V) of Shaktibhadra

Author : Shaktibhadra was a poet who is believed to
have lived in Kerala in the late 9th or early 10th
century. He seems to have been slightly earlier than
the dramatist Kulasekharavarman. In the prologue of
Ascharyachudamani, there is a mention that
Shaktibhadra was a south Indian poet, and the author
of another poem, Unmadavwavadatta.
Tm : Ascharyachudamani is one of the most
important plays in the repertoire of Kutiyattam
today, and has retained its popularity through the
many centuries of the existence of this theatric form.
Divided into seven acts, the elaborate staging of each
act of the play seems to have had considerable
inﬂuence on the composition and stage techniques of
other plays in the same category. ILs popularity on
the Kerala stage is evident from the fact that
Natankusa. a critical work belonging to the 15th
century, quotes at length from the text and directs its
criticism of Kutiyattam by citing several instances of
the stage acting of Anguliyanka, an act from the text.
The plot of Ascharyarhudamani covers the story of
Ramayana from the arrival of Rama, Sita and
Lakshmana in Panchavati to Rama‘s victory over
Ravana and his subsequent return to Ayodhya.
Plot : The scene depicts Ravana’s passion for Sita
whom he had abducted and taken captive in the
Asoka grove. ()n a moonlit night, Ravana, decked in
regal finery approaches Sita (represented on the stage
by a lighted lamp) and irnplores her to accept him,
but Sita angrily spurns his advances. Frustrated and
angry, Ravana draws his sword to kill Sita but
Mandodari, his wife, appears on the scene, catches
hold of his sword and averts the tragedy.
721x! ofperjbnnance : Ravana feels an uncontrollable
passion for Sita. Dressed in regal finery and
accompanied by his retinue, he proceeds to AsokaVanika (The Asoka Grove) to woo Sita.

Ravana : How does Sita, the daughter of king Janaka,
appear at this time?
He elaborately depicts the kesadipada (head-tofoot description) of Sita. The description
concentrates on Sita‘s curly hair falling over her
forehead, her eyebrows eyes, nose, cheeks. ears,

lips, face, neck, Chest, breasts, hands, belly, line of
hair on the belly, three creases on the belly, navel,

waist, garment, thighs, calves, feet, nails and the
inner surface of the feet. ('I‘orn by the arrows of
Kama, burnt by the rays of the moon, his feeling of
love accentuated by a soft breeze, he swoons, and
regains consciousness.)
Ravana : Varshavara, lead me to Asoka-Vanika. I am

not ordering you, but requesting you. What does

Varshavara say? [Listens] “As your Majesty
commands — this way, this way." [Mandodari and
Chedi appear].
Mandodari : My maid. what did you say? Did you
tell me that my husband, dressed in royal finery.
went to Asoka-Vanika to see Sita? Maid, come,
unseen by my husband, we will hide behind the
creepers in the garden. We will observe his erotic
excesses towards Sita, who does not reciprocate
his feelings. Come. let us have some amusement.
Chedi : As the Queen orders. My friend, let us go to
Asoka-Vanika. This way please — this way.
Ravana 2 This garden is enchanting, indeed. I have
not seen another garden like this. Beautiful!
Varshavara, Sita is sitting under the Simsapa tree v
isn’t she? [Listens to his reply : “Yes, my Lord,
Sita is sitting under the Simsapa tree".] Sita casts
scornful glances at me. When 1 try to woo her with
sweet words, she closes her ears. When I stand
before her with folded hands, she addresses Rama
and weeps. I don’t know how to please her and get
a favourable response from her.
I stand near her, dressed attractively, and cast
loving looks on her, with all my twenty eyes. I
would feel happy only if she glanced in my
direction at least once; but instead, she looks at me
with scorn. I go near her and tell her: “Look, Sita,
you need not sit here brooding; you take a bath,
eat food, put on lovely dresses. Oh, beautiful
woman, don‘t you hear my words?“ But all these
sweet words are lost on her; she closes her ears
with the palms, unable to bear my words.
I stand before Sita, joining the palms of my
twenty hands, requesting her to have some mercy
on me. Disregarding my words, Sita addresses
Rama thus: “Oh, Aryaputra, please come at once
and rescue this helpless wife of yours from her sad
predicament. l have no other refuge but you.
Please come at once and save me".
Every day I thus come and stand before Sita and
repeat these supplications; but all this has been
futile. I do not know what else I should do. 1 know
how to please ordinary women. But I don't know
how to win the favour of this woman.
Mandodari : My maid, there stands His Majesty. We
shall now see what he has in mind. [Ravana places
rich presean before Sita. Overcome by lust, he
cuts arecanut and places it before Sita on betelleaves smeared with lime]

Ravana : Lovely one, take your bath in the water of
Ganga; put on the celestial robes and ornaments
offered by the trees there; enjoy the luxuries of
heaven on Mount Kailasa or in the gardens of
heaven — luxuries which cannot be won even by
the hardest tapas. (All this can be yours.) But alas!
your chastity bars the path to heaven.

Sita“ : Fie upon your path to heaven! I have vowed
devotion to my husband and to fulﬁll that vow I
would rather enter hell.
‘ Sita's lines are recited by the Nangiar sitting on the side of
the stage.

15

