Ravana : My lady, for your sake I will abandon my
entire harem.
Mandodari : Let His Majesty remember these words!
Sita : No, not only your harem; for my sake you will
have to give up your very life.

16

Mandodari : Ah, human beings speak very harshly
indeed.
Ravana : True, the God of Love is taking away my
life.
Sita : No, my husband who is far more beautiful than
the God of Love.

Ravana : What you say is correct.

[Off-stage ]
Hail our Master! Hail His Majesty! Hail, Lord of
Lanka! Hail our blessed Lord! Hail Lord of
auspicious face! Ten ‘Nadikas‘ have elapsed. The
time for bathing is almost past. This way. Your
Majesty.

Ravana : You have now become an impediment.
Well, I shall see about this tomorrow morning.

[Ravana, Mandodari and Chedi exit]
Cast

Ravana : Ha, ha, ha! It is not reasonable to say that
the weapon of grass wielded by your husband the degraded Kshatriya wandering in the forest —
cannot be borne in the ﬁeld of battle by Ravana
who bore on his chest the mighty weapon of Indra
as though it were a tender leaf — the weapon with
which Indra chopped off the wings of mountains.

Mandodari : Why does His Majesty make all this
effort ? Sita cannot be won by any such means.
Ravana : My lady, I make this supplication with
folded hands. My entire harem composed of
Gandharva, Asura, Sura, Yaksha and Naga women
will wait upon you as servants. Will you not show
me some favour ?

Ravana : Guru Arnmannur Madhava Chakyar
Mandodari : Usha Nangiar

Chedi : Kapila

Recitation of the text of Sita : Nirrnala Paniker

Arcampanists
Mizhavu : P.K. Narayanan Narnbiar, C.K. Krishnan Nambiar,
V.K. Hariharan, RP. Rajeev
Edakka : Kalanilayam Unnikrishnan
Kurumkuzhal : Sudhir Shankar

Troupe

Ammannur Chachu Chakyar Smaraka Gurukulam.
Iri njalakuda

Mandodari : I will do even this for her! I do not
know of another who would do this.
25 M arch 1995

Chedi : Oh, Queen, look! With his palms all brought
together in supplication, the king looks like an
ocean with slightly open lotuses.

NA NG 1 AR KUT'I'U

S RI KRI S HNA L E E LA
Mandodari : I hope that the king will not become
angry with this chaste woman because his desire is
fru s tr ate d .

Ravana : My lady, this is my humble supplication,
my most humble entreaty.

Sita : Alas!
Mandodari : A resolute woman is she! She draws her
feet away from the head of His Majesty as she
would from dirt The rumour that Sita is the
daughter of Mother Earth and Rama is Vishnu is
now proved to be true.
Ravana : My lady, your feet are my only refuge.
Sita : Go and seek my husband‘s feet as refuge.
Ravana : What! Your seagirt Mother, Earth, is a
common woman shared by all kings who enjoy a
tribute of one-sixth given to them by their various
subject peoples. Then what is the meaning of this
chaste conduct of yours? [He asks] Where is my
sword?

Mandodari : Alas! Has it come to this? She is a
chaste wife. With my life I will save her from the
danger from my king. Victory to your Majesty!
Ravana : What! My queen Mandodari, daughter of
Maya!
Mandodari : Your Majesty, even Rama, her husband,
is not the target of your sword any more than that
this woman is your prisoner. If you ignore her, she
will herself give up her life.

Tear : Originating as an offshoot of Kutiyattarn,
Nangiar Kuttu rightly claims to have an independent
existence. Presented by Nangiar or female
performers belonging to the Chakyar community, the
text of Nangiar Kuttu can be considered as a
digression from the Second Act of Kulasekhara‘s
Subhudradhananjayam. It is performed by
Kalpalatika, the maid of Subhadra, who presents the
story of Krishna in the form of Nirvahana. The text
for Nangiar Kuttu is Srikrishna Charitam, with a
corpus of 217 slokus. It covers the story of the
‘Dasarnaskandha‘ of Bhagavata from the life of King
Ugrasena up to the romantic affair between Arjuna
and Subhadra, ending with the episode of
Alambasura‘s kidnapping of Subhadra.
l’lol ofSrikrislmaleelu : In the form of Nirvahana,
the scene details the childhood of Srikrishna and
Balarama. It describes elaborately the playful pranks
of the brothers, first as toddlers, then as children in
the company of friends in the forest. When the
friends are duped by Krishna, they report to Yasoda
that Krishna ate mud, and an irate Yasoda reprimands
him. Krishna shoWs his Universal Form (Visvarupa)
to his mother.
'Iiu't ofpe/jbrmmu‘e ८ Ritual entry — oheisance to the
Mizhavu, survey of the audience
(Sabhanireekshantun), salutations to the audience in

the ‘Kamalaparivartana' mode (unfolding of the

