I o tu s ) .

Recapitulation in brief. Samksheparn : So then. long
ago. Lord Narayana. to rid the earth of surfeit of evil.
took birth as the son of Vasudeva. killed the evil
dernoness Pootana and the demon Sakatasura who
were deputed to kill him. And one day. at the request
of Vasudeva. Sage Garga came to Nanda‘s house and
performed the Namakaranam of Krishna and his
brother Balarama. And Krishna and Balarama grew
up happily.
The episode : At that time, Krishna and Balarama
were infants crawling on all fours and they frolicked
about on their knees and elbOWs. When they did so.
their ankle-bells and bells in their waist chains
jingled and hearing these sounds they moved about
faster -— they wandered about in the cattleshed and
soiled their young bodies with cowdung and ashes. If
they noticed someone approaching. they accosted
him gladly; but if he was a stranger, they rushed off
in fear to their mothers.
Yasoda could not control or reprimand them due
to her overflowing affection and joy.
Kareeshabhasma dhigdhangau
Bhramamanavitastalha
Na nivar’ayitum sehe
Yasodha tau kumarakau
So they grew up, radiant as the sun and the moon.
When they crossed five years. full of health, their
bodies soiled by the dust of play. they frolicked
about like two young elephaan bouncing with
vitality — they pulled at the tails of young calves and
the horns of cows and in turn were pulled about by
the calves — they scared the cowherd women by

trying to catch hold of snakes and when dissuaded by
the women. smilineg withdraw. So, the women.
neglecting all their tasks. watched the children‘s
pranks in joy and awe.

Panchasamvatsaram praptau
Balachandrarka varchasu
Rejatuh pamsudhigdhangau
Deeptaucha kalabhaviva.
One day. Krishna and Balarama went to a forest
with their friends. plucked wild fruits and berries and
sat down to eat them. Then Krishna told them : “If
you will close your eyes, 1 will divide these fruits
equally among you.“ So. all the boys sat with eyes
closed and hands outstretched. But, Krishna duped
them all and ate the fruits himself. When they
opened their eyes. there was no fruit left. Angered.
they exclaimed : “Krishna. where are the fruits? Did
you eat them all. deceiving us ? We will go to your
mother and complain to her." So they went to Yasoda
and told her that her son Krishna had eaten mud.
Yasoda asked Krishna in anger : “Did you eat mud?"
“No Mother. these boys are making false complaints
about me." said Krishna. “No”. said Yasoda, “it is
you who are lying; not these boys." “No mother; 1
am telling the truth." said Krishna. “Alright. open
your mouth. let me see." said Yasoda. And. looking
into his mouth. she was astounded to see all the

diverse worlds there. “Am I dreaming," she
wondered. “No. I am fully awake. Only I am the
same Yasoda. And this is my son Krishna." She
realised that her son was Lord Narayana himself.
And her maternal instincts were rekindled. She took
her son in her arms and embraced him in ecstacy.

Kalae lesmin kadhachil kila phalanikar’a
steyarwnjatharaushair —
Balairbalmtyadheeyo mridasanakriditi
Vyahrutham sa Yasodha
Rushta raktanthanethra vadanavidalanae
Prerayandhyasvarendme
Drshtva lokanaseshan m'jamapi
Tanayam sasmitham vismitabhut
Concludes : So. in fun and frolic. Krishna lived

happily in Gokulam.
C(LYI

Nangiar : Margi Sathi
A८३Compam'sts'
Mizhavu : Kalamandalam Unnikrishnan Narnbiar.
Kalamandalam Ramanunni. Kalamandalam Achuthanandan.
Kalamandalam Mohanan

Edakka : Subramonian Potti. Margi Venugopal
Talam : Margi Usha
Make-up & costumes
Margi Somadas, Margi Raveendran

Troupe
Margi. 'I‘rivandrum

2 5 M arch l 995

KU TI YAT'I‘AM

S UB HA DRA DHA NA NJAYA
from Subhadradhananjaya (Act I ) of Kulasekhara
Varm an

Author : Kulasekhara Varrnan. the author of two
plays, Subhadradhananjaya and Tapatisamvarana.
seems to have ruled from 978 to 1036 AD. He also
wrote Vyangyavyakhya, a critique. after seeing ‘he
stage production of his plays. Apart from this. he.
along with his friend Tolan. remodelled Kutiyattam
to its existing form.
Text : Among the plays from Kerala which have been

adapted to Kutiyattam. Kulasekhara Varman‘s
Subhadradhananjaya and Thpatiswnvanma occupy
an important position. Subhadradhananjaya is a ﬁveact play which deals with the love between Arjuna
and Subhadra The play begins with Arjuna‘s arrival
in Dwarka after an extended pilgrimage. proceeds
through several stages in the complication of the plot
and ends with the happy union of the lovers. An
interesting innovation in the story is Krishna's gift of
a (iatrika (breastwear) to Subhadra in which ten

names of Arjuna have been embroidered into. The
stock character of vidusaku appears as a friend and
conﬁdant of the hero. A choreography text called

17

