Vyangyayakhya has also been recovered for the play.
Historically Subhadradhananjayam marks an
important turning point in the development of
Kutiyattam .

Subhadra and enacting : ‘No one else should enter
his heart. So I will tightly tie his heart by my

physical charm. etc., and seal it.’ The actor then
returns to the original stance of Dhananjaya and
enacts: ‘Such a heart, tied and sealed by Subhadra,

18

Plot : Arjuna, while returning from pilgrimage, sees
a woman being abducted and carried away through
the skies by a demon called Alambusa. He challenges
the demon and brandishes ‘Agneyastra‘. The
frightened demon frees the maiden, who falls down
and is caught by Arjuna in his arms. The maiden is in
a state of extreme fear, mingled with gratitude for
her saviour. The couple, not knowing each other‘s
identity, are attracted towards each other.

Text ofperformanre : After sounding of the Mizhavu
and holding of the curtain and on removal of the
curtain enter Dhananjaya and Kanyaka (maiden). The
Kanyaka enacts the ‘Panchanga’ of Dhananjaya
(description of the five parts of the physique viz.
head, face, chest, etc.) She recites (in Prakrit) :
Konuva eso mahanubhavo thellokkadhullaha

has been opened by this girl who entered my heart
through my eyes.‘

He then contemplates : ‘Well, how is she?’
Akshnor yugmam alolayanti : Both her eyes are
fluttering. He then ponders : ‘How are those eyes of
hers?‘

Chalakuvalaya dhamna : Her eyes have the lustre of
a trembling blue lotus. He then muses : ‘Is that all
about her eyes?‘
Bhaya chala dhriti : Agitated due to fear. He muses
again : ‘Anything more about her eyes?’
Anjana snigdham : Resplendent by the application of
collyrium. How is that? He muses and enacts. He
describes this in great detail by gestures. He takes
the stance of the beautiful girl he saved.

roopathisayo mam anukampethi
She tells the Sakhis (maids) : “Sakhis! Please

“Who is this great person who rescued me from the
hands of the demon -— I have not seen any other
person as handsome as him. Further. he, with all his
virtues, is so compassionate towards me; who may
this person be?" Recites lines again.
Dhananjaya : “How is she. whom I rescued from
the demon?" He then enacts the ‘Panchanga’
(description of the ﬁve parts of the physique) of the
maiden, i.e., hair, face, eyebrows. Stops when about
to describe the eyes, which is done in great detail
through the famous sequence known as
‘ Ch alakuvalayam ‘ .
Recites sloka :

Chalakuvalaya dhamnoranjanamigdhamakshnor
Bhaya Chala dhritiyugmwn keyamalolayrmli
Mukha parimalalobhat bhrnga dattanuyatm
Silhilayati Subhaderudritam manmam me
“Her eyes have the lustre of a trembling blue lotus.
Due to fear, her eyes are agitated. Her eyes.
resplendent by the application of collyrium, are
ﬂuttering. The fragrance of her face attracts the bees
to accompany her. Now, who is she, who loosens the
knot of my heart, which has been tied tightly and
sealed by Subhadra?"
The above sloka is enacted in detail, splitting it
into sections as below. (Anvayichadal)

[yam ka : Who is she? Who is her father? Who is her
mother? Which is her family? What is her name?
What sets me thinking this way?

adorn me."
Then he takes the stance of the different sakhis,

who make a detailed survey of her body from head to
feet. Then they hold her hand and bring her forward
and start adorning her.
One of them unties her long tresses of hair, parts
them, combs them, decorates with flowers after
making a garland of flowers, applies perfumed oil on
the hair, adjusts the curls on the forehead, applies
vermilion on the Simanta Rekha, tilak on the
forehead, studs on the ear, necklace, bangles, rings,

sandalpaste around the breasts, waist cloth etc.,
flower juice and anklets on the feet etc. This is done
by various sakbis in turn. In between, each Sakhi
takes a close look from head to feet. She notices that
the face lacks glamour. ‘Why?‘ She wonders and
asks another to take a look and find the reason. Then,
she suddenly discovers that she did not apply
collyrium on the eyes. She blushes at this omission
and apologetically applies collyriurn and as a result
finds the face absolutely resplendent.
‘Such are her eyes.‘ The actor then returns to the
stance of Dhananjaya and muses : ‘What more?‘
Mukha parimala lobhal bhmga dattanuyalra : He
enacts the role of the bees and shOWs them following
her face; attracted by the fragrance.
He then says : ‘Such a girl is not human.‘ He then
repeats the latter part of the sloka and ends his
ubhinaya .
Kanyaka recites (in Prakrit) :

Me manuan .rilhilayali : She unties the knot and
breaks the seal which has closed my heart. How is
my heart ?
Subhadramudritam : Tied and sealed by Subhadra.
How? He describes how Subhadra entered his heart
through his ears when he heard the words of Gada of
Dwaraka, praising the virtues and physical charms of
Subhadra The actor presents this by enacting the
role of Subhadra, by taking the female stance of

A 110 vimm (Lveeyidavah vuhmxajam
Bh00Ih(lyaravimadukatharwn
Annagayunamywn cha
Imam pi janam udeexiya vahamnto
Vunailhanam arm'edyrun audalho
Enacts : (With a deep sigh) ‘Look at Kama‘s temerity
— I am still dazed by the attack of the demon; on top
of it, he had made me desire another person (i.e.

