other than Dhananjaya to whom she is already

disguises herself as Lalita, describes the attractive

attracted) and thus made me feel like a woman of

sights at Ambadi and reaches the abode of Krishna.
Though enchanted by the extraordinary beauty of the

loose morals.’
Dhananjaya enacts the ‘Kesadipada‘ (description
of the parts of the physique) of the Kanyaka. head,
eyes, face and stops at the breasts.

Recites the following sloka :

Kliptashoumou prakwnbadhurasija
kalasavuchvasal panha bhangau
Milaneelambujasmeranthimukhalintham mughda
pada kadaksha
Rohadmmanchabhajasrwnajalakanikabhyudgarirganda
था seemnorrbheethyam kim va kriyalyamapi
Madana dasaya manushya pravesat
Enacts the meaning : “Due to trembling with fear
and movements of the breasts, her bodice has got
loose — the decoration with paste stands erased. Her
eyes. resembling a closed blue lotus, are extremely

sweet. Due to horripillation. her cheeks are decked
with minute sweat droplets. Are all these due to fear
or heat of amour?”
Then Dhananjaya completes the enactment of
kesadipada from the breasts downwards. Enacts
being smitten by the arrows of Kama and swoons.
When he recovers from the trance, enters
Vidusaka. Enactment of the highly mirth-provoking
‘Vidusaka stobha’ (clown’s antics). Then verbal

delivery in Malayalam by the Vidusaka, a sample
translation in English as below 2 “My mate
(Dhananjaya) got the maiden. I was the one who
worked for it. When I was wondering in search for
him, suffering the pangs of hunger and thirst and
while searching for some water to quench my thirst, I
saw a maiden being carried away thro’ the sky by a
demon. It was I who pointed out this to my mate.
Ofcourse, he used the ‘Agneyastra‘ to recover the
maiden from the demon."
Cast

Dhananjaya : Matgi Madhu

Kanyaka : Margi Sathi
Vidusaka : Kochukuttan Chakyar

Accompanists
Mizhavu : Kalamandalam Unnikrishnan Nambiar
Kalamandalam Ramanunni, Kalamandalam Achuthanandan

Edakka : Margi Subramonian Potti, Margi Venugopal
Tala : Margi Somadas. Margi Raveendran

Troupe
Margi. Trivandrum

2 6 M arch l 99 5

NANGI AR KUTTU
PU'I‘ANA MOKSHAM

infant Krishna, she decides to carry out her mission
and feeds the child with milk. from her poisoned

breast. Along with breastmilk, Krishna sucks out the
Vitals of Putana, and she dies, thereby attaining
Moksha.
Text ofperformance : Putana looks at her body and
shows the characteristics of a demon. She thinks : ‘If
I go in this fOrrn people will be afraid of me and they
will go away from me. Hence I shall take the form of
a beautiful lady.‘ She disguises herself as a lovely
lady and with satisfaction she moves towards
Ambadi. While nearing Ambadi she sees many
attractive scenes on the way. The womenfolk (the
Gopis) are engaged in various activities. They milk
the cows, feed the children with milk. churn curd.
She sees many other similar scenes in Ambadi.
In one of the houses, Putana sees a child sleeping
after being bathed and fed by his mother. Putana
slowly enters the house and before stepping into it
she applies poison on her own breasts. She goes into
the house, takes the child pretending all love, and
begins feeding the child by her poisoned breast.
Later, hiding herself in another park of the house she
watches and finds that the child is dead. The parents
cry sorrowfully and Putana feels happy over the
result. Then she moves to another house and lastly
she reaches the residence of Yasoda. When she is
about to enter the house she sees some bad omens
and that irk her. Yet she steps into the house.
There she sees the child Krishna sleeping
peacefully after being bathed and fed by Yasoda.
Putana is very excited to see the beautiful child. Her
mind is filled with love and affection. Putana
describes the beautiful form of the child Krishna.
Then she decides to take the child and tries to do
so. First‘she feels that the child is unusually heavy.
The second time she doesn’t feel so, and takes the
child. She kisses and showers affection on the child.
She hesitates to do harm to such a beautiful child and
thinks for a moment to withdraw herself from the
attempt. But she immediately remembers the order
of Karnsa and half-heartedly decides to execute the
order. If she did not carry out the orders of Kamsa,
she herself would be killed: ‘Before I am killed by
Kamsa,

let me destroy this child,‘ decides Putana.

Putana approaches the child. takes him in her arms
and tries to feed the poisoned breast. Here Putana
acts as the lady who feeds and then as the child
Krishna himself who sucks the breasts by beating
and torturing Putana. Srikrishna sucks not only the
breastmilk but the life out of Putana and the
demoness dies suffering. She is given deliverance by
Lord Krishna.
Ca3' l

Tex: : From Srikn'shna Charitam Nangiar Kutlu (see

Nangiar : Kalamandalam Shylaja

note for Sn'krishnaleela)

A cc 0mpa ms tr

Plot : The demoness Putana, at the orders of king
Kamsa, approaches Ambadi to kill Krishna. She

Kalamandalam P.V. [swaran Unru. Kalamandalam
AN. Hanharan

19

