Edakka : M. Narayanan Namboodiri

Troupe
Kerala Kalamandalam. Cheruthuruth y

____——-———-———

2 6 M arc h 1 995
_________—_—._._——————

KU TIYA'ITA M

SURPA NA KHA NKA M

20

womenfolk in the palace by talking to them again
and again about the wonders of the forest.
[Srirama and Sita withdraw into the nepathya]

[Surpanakha in disguise as Lalita]
[Lalita enters. She enacts being attracted to
Srirama, describes Srirama‘s panchanga (five parts
of the body): Matted hair, eyes, face. chest and feet),
is overcome by passion, faints, wakes up and leaves
the stage]
[Srirama and Sita enter. Lalita (Surpanakha) goes

from Ascharyachudamani (Act II) of Shaktibhadra

to them, salutes Srirama] :

Author & Text : See notes for Udyana Pravesam.

May my lord prosper !
Srirama : 0 beautiful lady, have you met
Laks hrnan a?

Plot : Surpanakhankam, the Second Act of
Ascharyachudamani, deals with the life of Rama,
Sita and Lakshmana in Panchavati and the episode of
the disfigurement of the demoness Surpanakha at the
hands of Lakshmana. Surpanakha, torn by pangs of
love for Rama, approaches him in the guise of a
lovely damsel and requests him to accept her. Rama
expresses his unwillingness to do so and sends her to
Lakshmana. Spurned by Lakshmana, she returns to
Rama. only to be sent back to him again. When
rejected once more. Surpanakha reveals her real
nature as a demoness and Lakshmana disfigures her
by cutting off her ears, nose and breasts. Blood—
stained and furious, Surpanakha leaves, to report the

matter to Khara and Dushana.
Text of performance : Sounding the Mizhavu
followed by goshti drumming the curtain is held up :
Enter Srirama and Sita. ‘Aha! 1 am now very happy.
How is that? When I went to the harmitage of Sage
Agastya, I promised to all the sages who came there
that all the demons will be killed. After accepting the
weapons given by Sage Agastya who was pleased, I
made friends with Jatayu on the way to Panchavati. I
reached Panchavati with Sita and Lakshmana. The
sages had already told this that his Panchavati is full
of cruel demons and wild beasts. None of them are
now to be seen here. Let me tell Sita about this :
vaidehi vaidehi vidhure saivam vismayaniyataya
sluyate! pasya
[Sita, all objects in the distances listen with
am azemen t . ]

Sloka :
Sailayamibhimmbuvaha
nivahaccharyaislriyamacharaih
Sevya panchavatiti me matrirabhudua’vela
kauluhalu
Seyam devi rirm‘itamup(mayatyudyanayogyam
s riyam
Smtur vismuyaniya vastuvisayassailatavisagamh
“[Hcaring that I’anchavati was inhabited by
demons as tall as mountains and having the colour of
clouds, my mind has been filled with wonder. Devi,
that I’anchavati is now, due to familiarity, like a
garden. People who live at a distance are filled with
surprise when they hear about mountains, forests or
seas . ] "

Sita : My Lord, I feel eager to astound the

Lalita (Surpanakha) : Yes, I saw him.

Srirama : Has he listened to my words.
Surpanakha : Just listened only.
Srirama : What answer did he give?
Surpanakha : You have. become a hindrance to me in
looking after my lord performing the duties of a
hermit.
Srirama : [smiles to himself] He will have said
exactly this. [Aloud] I advise you, my lady, to
make one more attempt.
Surpanakha : My lord should not speak like that. I
shall stay here worshipping your feet.
Sita: This humble one is good, out of love for my
lord.

Srirama: [Looking at Surpanakha] Lady, I respect
your opinion just expressed. But it was out of
regard for my father's desire that in the presence
of sage Vasishta and with the holy ﬁre as witness
that I married this one. Even she is an obstacle to
my situation. This is my situation. Now you may
decide as you please.
Surpanakha : If that is to, I shall sacrifice my life
here. I don't have the strength to go anywhere else.
Sita ८ My Lord, it is not proper to reject her appeal.

Srirama : I request you, my lady, to go to Lakshmana
once again.
Surpanakha : Alas! By listening to my lord‘s words, I
violated the moral code of women.

Srirama : Lady, that is not correct. Don‘t think that
courtship is not proper for ladies according to
Sanatana dharma. Ganga dwells on the matted hair
of Shiva; and yet doesn’t she go to join the sea, the
husband of rivers?
Surpanakha : [To herself] All right. If he rejects me
unkindly this time also, I'll show them my
colours.

[After enacting entry and the characteristics of a
demoness, exit]
[Srirama and Sita enter and listen to off-stage
voice]

Offstage : [from the nepalhya] Stop, you demoness!
Srirama : [listening] It seems to be the voice of
Laks h man a

