clouds at eventide, like the part of a mountain full
of minerals. like a row of green trees drenched in
morning light here is seen the dernoness, her red
body soaked in blood.
Lakshmana : [to himself] By my good luck my lord
has himself found out the heinous act.

Srirama : Lakshmana, you have done what had to be
done. This is the right punishment for a woman in
place of killing. It is heard she is Surpanakha. the
elder sister of Khara and Dushana who live in
Dandaka forest and the younger sister of Ravana.

His Prahasana is marked by its lucid poetry, easy and
conversational style and sense of humour.
TexI : The story of Bhagavadajjukiyam, a I’rahasana,
is derived from a hilarious situation created by a
‘bhagavan‘ (yogin) transposing his soul into the body
of an ‘ajjuka‘ (prostitute) and vice versa. This
transmigration is necessitated by the yogin‘s
eagerness to impart spiritual knowledge to his
disciple Sandilya The play has been quite popular on
the Kutiyattam stage. and a detailed Attaprakararn is
available for the play.

22
Surpanakha : 0 men, remember your violence. You
will see the consequence of this from today.

[Srirama Sita and Lakshrnana hold their hands
together and walk in a stylized manner

Text of performance : The heroine Vasantasena and
the Chedi Parabhritika enter the flower garden and
walk around. The heroine tells her friend “Oh I
Parahudiye. This garden looks so beautiful. In the
spring season. all the plants and trees blossom and
the flowers spread fragrance by the touch of the
gentle breeze. Everything has become more
attractive and beautiful. On one side the flies reach
to enjoy honey by sucking and taking it to their
wives." The Chedi (friend) says, “Oh! Aijuke, this
lotus lake has turned more beautiful. The lake is full
of lotus flowers and buds. The swans come fast to eat
the stalk of lotus and part it with their wives. They
play happily in the lake. Hence the water is moving
and the breeze being touched by the waves becomes
cold and due to the fragrance of the lotus ﬂowers
becomes more enjoyable. Then the heroine says,

—Kalappurathu — and retreat to the nepathya]

“Hearing the sound of the fountains of the lotus lake,

Cast

the peacocks suspecting the sound as thunderbolt,
start dancing."

Lakshmana : 0. you get away quickly.

Surpanakha : Let me show my condition to Khara
and Dushana. [Exit Surpanakha]

Sita : Look my Lord! It seems as if the sun colours
the tree tops with the blood of the dernoness in the
guise of the scarlet rays of the setting sun.
Srirama : [there the day ends] Put the sword in the
sheath. Untie the bowstring. Let us bathe in the
dust—free water, hold the breath in the wet limbs
and perform the evening ritual reciting the

mantras.
Lakshmana : As my lord orders.

Srirama : Sivam Namboodiri

[The sound of the Mizhavu to support the dance]
Sita : Shylaja
Lalita : Girija
Lakshmana : Raveendran

Heroine : “Hanje par‘ahudiya kahim kahim
upavasamo?" Hello. Parabhritike, where shall we
sit in the garden?

Surpanakha : Rama Chakyar

Make-up & costumes

Chedi : “Ajju ee etassim kusxumida sahayaraa'i iya
mandide .riya paltaye mu kutha yam uva visiya
ekkam valhuyam gayadu Ajjuya." Hello, Aijuke,
we shall sit on this granite pad under the Sahakari
tree which is beautifully decorated by flowers and
you sing a song.

RM. Ramrnohan, A.S. Rangan, M. Kunjan

Heroine : ‘Evam hodu‘. Be so.

A (companistx

Mizhavu : P.V. Iswaranunni, A.N. Hariharan
Edakka : M. Narayanan Narnboodiri

Troupe

[Both sit on the granite pad and sing together]

Kerala Kalamandalam, Cheruthuruth y

Parabhrila madhukara nada jyaghosha
kama esha udyane
Tlshtati sahakara 5am muhyali
nunam manopi muneh

2 7 M arch 1 99 5

KU T'I YAT'I‘AM

UDYA NAVA RNANA M
from Bhagavadryjukiywn of Bodhayana

Author : The authorship of Bhagavadajjukiywn is
attributed to Bodhayana, whose date has been fixed
by some scholars to the 6th century AD. This
Bodhyana is of course different from the scholar of
the same name who wrote a commentary of

Badarayana‘s Bruhmaxutm. The poet seems to have
belonged to the Baudhayana school of south India.

(In this garden the cuckoos flock together. eat the
buds and tender leaves and are satisfied. The bees get
intoxicated by drinking honey and sing beautifully at
the dusk. The Lord of Love. Kamadeva is very happy
and the garden is full on ﬂowers. He thinks, let me
go to encourage the minds of youngsters. He starts
prepared with bow and. arrow in his hands. The song
of the bees and the cuckoos become the sound of the
bow of Kamadeva. He waits on the branches of the
mango tree. At this sight even the minds of the sages
will be moved, no doubt.)
[The heroine and the friend exit]

