Cast

Vasantasena (Heroine) : Shyalaja
Parabhritika (Chedi) : Girija

A rrompanists
Mizhavu : I’.V. lswaranunni. AN. Harihamn

Iidakka : M. Narayanan Namhoodiri

Make-up & costumer
PM. Rammohan, A.S. Rangan, M. Kunjan
Troupe
Kerala Kalamandalam, Cheruthuruthy

2 7 M arch l 995

K U TI YA'I'I‘A M

M AYA S ITA N KA M
from Ascharyachudamani (Act III) of Shaktibhadra

Author & TexI : See notes for Udyana Pravesam.

Plot : In a deliberate departure from Valmiki‘s
version of Ramayana, the play presents Ravana and
his charioteer disguising themselves as Rama and
Lakshmana and abducting Sita. Surpanakha also
disguises herself as Maya Sita. Ravana (as Maya
Rama) concocts a story about Bharata being in
danger from his enemies and needing help at
Ayodhya An unsuspecting Sita falls prey to this evil
strategy for her abduction, and follows Ravana into
the chariot.
Text ofperformanre : After the traditional salutation
to the Mizhavu, Sita sits on the pitha in a state of
extreme anxiety and foreboding. She recites: Api
namaryaputrena Lakshmana ramgamsyate (I pray
that Lakshmana may meet my beloved husband.) She
fervently prays that Lakshmana may meet Rama and
help him out of any possible danger he may be in.
The nepathya drumming stops and she hears, Sita
tvamapi mam upekshase (Oh, Sita! Have you too left
me alone and absolutely helpless?)
She exclaims, Ham adanya khalvaham
aryapulram svarena anvichami. She enacts: “Alas!
what do I hear? I am really unfortunate. What can I
do? I shall move in the direction front which I heard
my husband‘s cry for help." After repeating the lines,
she moves pitha away, moves in the stylised manner
and goes to the nepathya (symbolic of moving
towards Rama).

Scene 2: Enter Ravana, Surpanakha and Suta
(charioteer). Ravana stands in front of the lamp. Suta
to his right and Surpanakha to his left. Ravana enacts
the popular sequence in Kutiyattam known as
Panchanga (the description of the five parts of the
physique—the head, face, eyes, breast and feet).
Following this he enacts being smitten by Kama’s
arrows and continues his lovelom contemplation of
Sita‘s beauty.
Surpanakha recites : “Arya, Pasya, l’asya—panita
yantrkam ramam svayameva gacchat" and enacts :
“()h brother. the gem that was kept far away and

inaccessible to you is now approaching you
volun tarily."
Ravana recites : “Nayam upeksakala;
Ramaupenainam arddhapathe pratibadhuami. ” He
enacts. “I should not lose this chance. This is the
most opportune moment. I shall disguise myself as
Rama and accost her midway."
Surpanakha recites : “Sustvaryo bhanali.
Ahamapi taved Ramam Silampena nivmipathe
vilambayisye.“ She enacts : “I too shall disguise
myself as Sita and delay the return of Rama to Sita’s
side."
Ravana says : “Badham prathamah kalpah He
enacts : “Yes, the first step."
Now Surpanakha says : “lta param kim maya
kartavyam and gestieulates, “Beyond this I have
nothing more to do." Exit Surpanakha.
Suta [the charioteer] asks Ravana, “Ayusman, kim

mayedanim kartavyam?” He enacts, “My lord, what
service has to be rendered by me?"
Ravana whispers in Suta's ear, “evam iva." He
enacts: “Oh, Suta, you must disguise as Lakshmana,
get into the chariot and approach Sita in order to
make her trust you and speak to her."
Suta recites, “Yadajnapayatyayusman and
enacts, “My lord, I shall do as ordered." Repeats the
lines and contineus as an aside after some
contemplation, “aho balavan bhanrpinda,‘ idamapi
maya kanavyamasil.” He enacts : “Wonderful
succour that my master provided me with—so I am
bound to do as bidden." Repeats the lines and enacts,
“It is not enough that I serve solely as his charioteer;
I am also bound to cheat this chaste woman, an
action which is despicable and cowardly." He enacts
the stylized movements of driving a chariot and
exits.
Ravana places the pitha in the middle of the
stage. The yavanika (curtain) is held low. Ravana

stands on the pitha. Maya Rama (Ravana in disguise
as Rama) holding bow and arrow stands behind
Ravana. “Ravana enacts the chanting of magic hymns
(mayamantra). The curtain is raised—Ravana exits
and Maya Rama stands on the pitha. The curtain is
removed. Maya Rama moves towards Sita.
Sita is walking in the stylised manner, symbolic
of movement from one place to another. On seeing
Maya Rama (she naturally mistakes him for the real
Rama). she expresses her boundless joy and recites,
“hum, aryyapulra, jayatuaryyaputra." Enacts, “It is
really astonishing, my lord has come back. Again
moving closer, she says ‘jayatuaryyaputraﬂ' and
enacts, “Hail my lord. be victorious!”
Ravana speaks. “devi, ita, ita", and enacts,
“Respected lady. this way, this way." Then he says.

mayabalena balinam ksanadacaranam
jihvalale karatalodari vartamanam
ivam Laksmana: katham upeksitavrm katham
tvam
ittham gwasi mrduna carana dvayena.

He enacts the bare outline of this sloka. Then acts
out the meaning in detail by taking up individual
words. pharases etc. for elaboration, thus:

23

