“()h, charming lady, I instructed Lakshmana to be
with you for your protection. Why did he leave you
alone and go away? It was not proper of him to have
done so. You are in the minds of cruel raksasas of
this forest (the raksamr covet you) and these

24

raksasar are to be found everywhere here. They
could reach you without any resistance and harm
you. It was because I was aware of this that I insisted
on Lakshmana remaining with you, and thereby
ensure your safety."
“What are the traits of these raksasas?" He
recites, “mayabalinam and gesticulates “by the
powers of magic they assume the forms of different
creatures and move about — an art in which they are

very clever. Due to this power invested in them, no
one can really divine their real nature. You are in the
midst of such raksasas. Therefore I had instructed
Lakshmana to remain with you and ensure your
safety. Why did he go away from you, disregarding
my definite instruction?"
He recites: “Even if Lakshmana had left you
alone disregarding your security. you should have
remained in the herrnitage. Instead, you are walking
about in the forest without any fear, stepping on the
thorny bushes and sharp stones with your tender feet
— why is it? I want all the reasons in full detail." He
recites the latter half of the sloka.
Sita stands for a while in an extremely sorrowful
mood and then says, “hum, adhanyaya
mayopalabdha, kumarakimili mantrayate?" and
enacts, “Alas, the sinner that I am! I insulted
Lakshmana in a variety of ways. How does he feel
about it? Alas !"
Ravana, contemplating for a while and acts as if
he has taken a decision. He recites, “mmam
vipralabdhasi mayamrgasvareml" and enacts “that
magic deer‘s cry has deceived you, I am sure."
Repeats the lines.
Sita, brightening up, says, “aryyaputra, kutra sa
mayamrga: " She enacts, “My beloved lord! Where
has that magic deer gone?”
Ravana recites, “pathi vipratipanna, svayam
evagwnisyati and enacts : “Oh, my charming lady,
when I tried to catch that deer and came close to it, it
hid itself in the dense jungle. Therefore I could not
catch it. But I am sure that it will show up again. I
have decided to kill it then. Deciding thus I left it
and came to meet you."
The word '“Ayumayumagacchami" is heard from
the nepathya. Sita hears it and enacts : “Do I hear the
words ‘I am coming'
She recites, “hum, uryyaputrmyeva svara and
enacts : “Alas l What do I hear? It is the voice of my
beloved husband."
Then Ravana says, “manye. pmvvam upi svara
sadrsyenu vancitasi"

and gesticulates, “You were

deceived by a similar voice earlier too. I fear so.“
Sita exclaims, “mmu term kumaropi
mayopulubdhu: " and enacts : “On hearing such a
voice earlier, I uttered harsh words insulting Kumara
( Lakshman a)

Then Suta (charioteer) enters disguised as

Lakshmana, enacting in the stylized manner the
action of driving horses harnessed to the chariot. He
approaches Maya Rama (Ravana) and pays
obeisance. He then says, “prasidatvarya” . While
saying thus, he uses “ayusman” instead of “(tryya"
as he was wont to do as a mere charioteer. He
realises the slip and hurriedly corrects it to “aryya”
and becomes quite upset in the process. He then
enacts : “Oh aryya, the respected brother be pleased
with me". He then requests: “Please get into the
chariot, Oh, respected brother" and enacts : “Oh, my

revered brother, please get into the chariot along with
my revered sister-in-law, quickly."
Ravana says, “Lakshmana, kim idam" and enacts,

“Lakshman. who provided you with this chariot? We
are dwellers of the forests. Of what use is a chariot to
us ?"
Maya Lakshmana says, “aryya. samadhi Fulcrum
Bharatcuya par'acakra bhayam upunatam drstva
turnam yusmabhi: abhigantavyam ili lapma ratham
nirmaya mahyam datva Vanantaresvantarhilas—
Iapasvijana He enacts the meaning “Oh, my elder
brother, the great sages around here have divined by
means of their mystic power that our brother Bharata
(now ruling Ayodhya) has been attacked by enemies
and advised me that we should proceed to Ayodhya
to rescue him. To enable us to do so post haste, they,
using their divine power, created this chariot, horses
and all accoutrernents and gave them to me. The
sages then disappeared into the forest for continuing
their penance."
Sita speaks aside, “yujyate, nanu purvamapyasya
haste danam parammcaryacudamani,
adbhutanguliyakwn" and enacts: “What Lakshmana
said is true. He has brought chudamani, anguliyar
and kavacha given by the sages earlier."
Ravana says, “devi, kastavabhipraya" and enacts
the meaning. “Respected lady, what is your
opinion?"
Sita replies, “nanu mayapyesla vyo Bharatarya
vyamnanaso. vundanan guru janasyo ca.” She
enacts: “I wish to see Bharata helped out of his
miserable situation and also pay my respects to our
elders in the family."
Ravana says, “Lakshmana, prathamam
devimamhaya ralham" and enacts : “Lakshmana, to
begin with, help Sita to get into the Chariot."
Maya Lakshmana recites, “yadajnapuyati aryya"
and enacts, “As ordered by my respected brother".
He requests Sita, “Oh, my sister-in-law, please get
into the chariot" by gesticulation.
Sita says, “distya raksasa vancananmocita
bhutva garchama and enacts, “Fortunately we
escape being cheated by I‘d/tarmac."
Sita enters the chariot followed by Maya Rama
(Ravana) and Maya Lakshmana (Suta). They move
around in a stylised manner suggesting the
movement of chariot. Maya Rama, in the stance of
holding bow and arrow, stands in front of the lamp,
looks at Sita and expresses joy and enacts, “What
can I do to make her enjoy this moment?" He
considers the means for a while and expresses as if

