he has found a way out.
He speaks to Maya [-akshmana. “Prasanna devi.
Lakshmana tumam (‘()d(1ya.rv'an" and enacts
"Terminating the stay in the forest. we return to
Ayodhya—this revered lady is very happy at the
moment. Drive the horses fast.“
Maya Lakshmana says. "Yadajnapayati aryw'a"
and enacts. “As ordered by my brother."
They move about in a stylised manner symbolic
of a ride in a chariot. Ravana (Maya Rama) stands in

front of the lamp. He looks arnorously at Sita and
wants to enjoy the pleasure of touching her. He
moves backward to the left corner to the stage and
takes rhythmic steps backwards and forwards.
Repeats the movements and turns around. He stands
for a while with an expression of indecision.
Ravana : [to himself]

mayr' budhyapyarannigdhwn
imam no sprslamulsahe
Aho talpurvvadrsmnam
kaslah strinam samagamah
He enacts. “She firmly believes that I am Rama.
Still. I am not hold enough to touch her even though
she stands close and in front of me. It is really a very
difficult matter to establish physical contact with a
woman whom you have not seen (been acquainted
with) before". They move around once again in a
stylised manner. suggesting the movement of a
chariot and exit from stage.
Car!

Surpanakha : M. Kochukuttan Chakyar

Maya Lakshmana : Margi Madhu
Maya Rama : Margi Narayanan
Ravana : Margi Raman
Sita : Margi Usha

Arcompanistr
Midiavu : Kalamandalam Unnikrishnan Nambiar.

Kalamandalam Ramana Unni. Kalamandalam
Achuthanandan, Kalarnandalam Mohanan

Edakka. Thimila : Subramonian Potti. Margi Venugopal
Tala : Margi Sathi
Make-up & costumes
Margi Somadas. Margi Raveendran

Troupe
Margi. Trivandrum

Kuvalayapida. the elephant. and also the wrestlers in
Kansa's court These deaths evoke a mixed reaction
in the spectators. Subsequently Krishna rUshes up to
Kamsa, fights with him and kills him.
Tex! ofperfonnance . In the days of yore. Sri
Narayana came down to the earth in the guise of a
man. Krishna. born as the son of Vasudeva and
Devaki. for the purpose of exterminatjng the wicked
and sinful people of the world. Krishna spent his
childhood at Ambadi in the company of his elder
brother Balararna. At that time Kamsa. ruler of
Mathura. came to know from Narada that Krishna
was going to be his murderer. He decided to kill
Krishna and in order to attract him to Mathura. he
started a dhanur-yagna. Karnsa sent Akrura. a Yadava
chief. to Ambadi to fetch the two boys Krishna and
Balararna. Krishna entered the Yagna-Sala and
brought the yagna to an end by breaking the bow. He
killed Kamsa‘s big elephant. Kuvalayapida. and
plucked out its tuslcs. Then he and Balararna. each
holding up one of the tUsks. entered Kamsa‘s court.
[booking at Krishna different persons react in
different ways according to his or her character and
state — thus giving rise to different emotions and
sentiments. The performer here delineates in details
the Navarasas.]
At that time. one of the wrestlers of Karnsa.
seeking Krishna. said to the others: “book. this is the
man who is the great enemy of our master Kamsa: he
is the villain living at Amhadi. Haven‘t we heard of
him? Then (peering at the body of Krishna) he adds:
“His body is as hard as diamond. But we can. with
out mighty ﬁsts, beat him into pulp and kill him."
Enactirig so much. he shows his anger and
determination by rubbing his hands. (RAUDRA
RASA )
Next some others seeing Krishna coming (staring
at him) say: “How amazing! We can never see
another man having such conﬁdence and faith in
himself. Is he a prince? (Gazing at him) No. he is
only a cowherd! Yet. how wonderful ! (ADBHUTA)
(Some women gazing at Krishna say. “Who can
be this man who has such a beautiful body? Is he one
of the Asvini devas?" (Thinking). “No. he cannot be
because the two Asvini devzu always go together;
they are never separated. Then who is he? He must
be Kamadeva himself who was supposed to have
been burnt to ashes by Siva with his third eye. No.
that story is wrong; Kamadeva is not dead; here he
stands before us as Krishna." (SRINGARA)
Next. the Gopas. (looking at Krishna in an

2 8 M arch l 995

NA NO 1 A R KUTTU

KA MS A VA DHA M
from Srikrishna Charilam Nangiar Kunu

Author & Tex! : See notes for Srikrishnaleela.

Plot : Karnsa finds out that Krishna. destined to be
his destroyer. lives in Amhadi. He deputes the Yadava
leader Akrura to bring Balarama and Krishna to
Mathura. Reaching the city of Mathura. Krishna kills

amusing way) say: “Look here. look here. see what is
happening. The people of Mathura are gazing at
Krishna with wide open eyes. This Krishna is only a
man like us. Do you feel anything else? I don‘t see
any cause for wonder". (HASYA)
Then the wicked kings: “So we have seen
Krishna. this is the boy living at Amhadi. of whom
we have heard as the boy who is born to kill Karnsa.
(Peering at Krishna) His mind is full of pride and
arrogance. What is his arrogance? He thinks that all
the kings in the world must obey him. If they do not

25

