do so he has the strength to kill them. This arrogance
seems to have filled his body. Therefore let us get
ready to fight with him." (On second thoughts): “()h,
shameful, it is not proper for us to go to fight with
this insigniﬁcant boy. Why? Because we are great
kings and if We become angry and go to fight, even
Devendra will not stand against us. So how can we
go to war with this insignificant boy?" (Thinking).
“Hey, servants, go at once, make Krishna a captive
and bring him here. He shall play tricks with him as
we do with a monkey." (VIRA)

26

At that time Vasudeva and Devaki are shown as
waiting anxiously for the arrival of Krishna. Enacting
the part of Devaki, “1 see Krishna coming." ()wing to
excessive love for her son milk ﬂows out of her
breasts. (Thinking). “Alas ! after giving delivery to
him. this is the first time that 1 am seeing him. So 1
am very happy. But my sorrow also increases. Why?
Because he is a young boy. He is not at all competent
to face Karnsa‘s boxers in a light. So I pray to God
that no danger should come to him." (KARUNA)

linacting the role of Karnsa, he sees somebody
coming through a window on the seventh floor of the
palace. What was the neWs? “Krishna came and has
killed my elephant, Kuvalayapida? Is that the news?"
(Thinking, slightly frightened) “Alas! my mallm
(boxers) cannot kill Krishna? Is it possible? No, it

cannot be true. Why? If glow-worms can shine in the
full glare of sunlight, then Krishna‘s might will shine
before that of my mallas." (At this moment he sees
Krishna coming.) “This man is not a Gopala; he is
the Antaka (Yama) himself who takes aways the life
of all. Surely he is coming to take away my life."

(BH AYANAKA)
Some people do not know the strength of Krishna
because they notice a contradiction — the
contradiction between his soft body and his real

strength. “There is no pleasure in seeing the fight
between Krishna with a soft and light body and the
mullm with hardened bodies and iron muscles. It is
unfair. Who was it who designed a ﬁght between
these two unequals'? Fie, we do not want to see such
a light. Let us go from here. (BIBHATSA)

Next Yogis react thus: “Is this Krishna whom we,
the Yogis. consider the Chidananda-Svarupa
Bliagavan who is beyond the reach of man‘s senses
and minds? On account of our past virtuous actions
we have been granted a vision of this supreme God.
So let us take advantage of this opportunity to get the
ultimate fulfilment of our lives." Deciding so, they
sit, withdrawing their minds from all external
objects, and go into a meditation. (SANTA)
Next Vrishnis react thus: This Krishna is Sri
Narayana himself, our family-deity. There is no

Sasla svapitmmiru
Mrtyurbhoyapateh viradavidusam

'I'attvam param yoginam
Vrrninam paradevaleti vidito
Rangam gatah sugrajah
At the time (feigning to be mallar) “Krishna, if
you are strong enough come to fight with us. Let us
have a fight." (A fight follows between Krishna and
the mallar). In the course of this fight Krishna seizes

Chanura by his feet, whirles him, strikes him on the
earth and kills him. Balararna pounds Mushtika again
and again and kills him.
Sloka-anlari :

nirjilukhila mallendrau,
Sam (1 r! ha n malla - vik ram an
(‘anuramurtikau virau
harm balan nanardaluh

Next Krishna : “What doens Karnsa say? Hey,
soldiers, you go at once, capture and bind Krishna
and Balararna, take them along the main streets and
throw them far away from the city. Then kill
Vasudeva and Devaki." Hearing these words of
Karnsa (looking around) he sees Kamsa at the
window sitting on his throne on the seventh ﬂoor of
the building (Saying: “See what 1 am going to do!")
he ran jumping up the steps to the seventh ﬂoor. Like
a lion rushing towards 'a frightened deer, he rushes at

Karnsa .
Sloka-antari :

Tam simhanadavvathitwn murarih
bhayaturam bhanusamantejah
Sandhagra-srngcwtitha maugrasenim
trmtam mrgam simhamivasasuda
In the course of the fight between Kamsa and
Krishna, Krishna wrenches the sword and shield
from Kamsa's hands. Then he strikes the sword at
Karnsa’s neck and separates his head from his trunk.
He hurls Kamsa’s dead body to the ground and
dances with joy; at that time the gods above shower
flowers on him. The people of Mathura feel that a
painful thorn sticking in their hearts has been
mercifully removed. Sloka :
Kamsam vikammm bhayakampitangam
Kanlhe grhitva (dram nihatya
Akrryu ciksepa (a bhumi—prsthe
Rudhaiku salyam jagalwnivadya
Carl

Nangiar ८ Usha Nangiar

Recitation of text ८ Kapila

Accompanile

doubt about it. (They stand in a pose of reverence).

Mizhavu : (‘.K. Krishnan Narnbiar, V.K. Hariharan

hi this way all classes of people in the assembly
including the Ina/[(13, respond in their own way to the
arrival of Krishna.
The .r/oku sung

Edakka ८ ().N. (iopinathan Nambiar, Kalanilayam
U n n l kri sh nan

Mal/(mum amnih. nrmun namvarah xlrinum
Smuro murtiman
mm
hr
ib
it
kx
nt
ta
mu
no
ju
'u
.n
um
rm
op
(l

Kururn Kurhal ८ Sudhin Shankar
'l'alam : Nirmala l’aluker

Troupe
Ammannur (‘hachu (’hakyar Smaraka (iurukularn,
ln iualakuda

