2 8 M arch 1 99 5

alone in the forest facing the rigours of nature. He
sees, around him in the forest, a reﬂection of his own

KU T'I YATTAM

BALI VADHAM
from Abhiseka Nataka (Act I) of Bhasa

Author : Bhasa is one of the earliest Sanskrit
dramatists whose works have been recovered, but

nothing concrete is known about the date, place or
even authorship of his works. Scholars have put his
date as 5th or 4th century BC. and ascribed thirteen
plays to him. Though these thirteen plays were
discovered by Ganapati Sastri in T‘rivandrum as late
as 1912, they had been rather well-preserved in the
repertoire of the Kutiyattam stage.
Tex? : Abhiseka Nataka deals with the story of
Ramayana. The story begins in the middle, with the '
truce between Rama and Sugriva, and courses
through several incidents like Bali’s death,
Hanuman‘s crossing the ocean and conveying Rama’s
message to Sita, the battle between Raksasas and the
monkeys, the killing of Ravana, Sita‘s fire ordeal,
and ends with Rama’s coronation. In its
drarnatisation, Abhiseka Nataka almost entirely

conforms to the Ramayana story, with little or no
change in plot or characterisation.

Plot : ‘Bali Vadham’ deals with the incidents leading
to the killing of Bali, the king of the monkeys. It
describes the alliance between Rama and Sugriva
(Bali’s brother), Sugriva‘s challenge to Bali for a

ﬁght, Bali‘s acceptance of the challenge despite
T‘ara's pleas. While the two brothers are engaged in
fight, Rama shoots Bali down with an arrow, hiding
behind a tree. The death-scene of Bali, in which he
traverses through several conflicting emotions of
outrage (at Rama), reconciliation (with his fate. as

also with his brother), sorrow, compassion and
finally, calm, is the high point of this act.
Text ofperformance : After the ritual drumming
called midtavu ochappeduttuka, the Nambiar comes
and stands in front on the oil—lamp of the stage with
great devotion and recites the verse of the prayer
with which the play begins.

Meaning of verse : “May Lord Sri Rama protect you
— Rama who entered into a treaty with Sugriva; who
lifted and hurled the dead body of the demon
Dundubhi; who in no time cut down Sapta Salas
(seven palmyra palms) with one arrow to instil
conﬁdence in Sugriva; who killed Bali while he was
fighting with his brother in order to confirm his
friendship with Sugriva and who is a diadem on the
crest of Surya (Sun) dynasty."
When the curtain is removed we see Sugriva
sitting in a mood of deep sorrow and dejection.
Sugriva expresses through hand gestures and facial
expression his agonies and his hardships in living
alone in a solitary wood.
Sugriva, for fear of his elder brother Bali, has
taken refuge in the Malyavan mountain. Hounded out
of his palace, Sugriva bemoans his sad lot, living

mental state. “My good God, will my miseries never
end? Exposed to the sun, drenched by the rains,
shivering in the cold and open to the winds, I live in
the forest. WOuld I ever see a normal comfortable
life? Is there anything I can do in the matter? Alas!
vu
no.
T'hus sorrowing he decides to take a peep at what
is in store for him in the future. He plucks a small
leaf from the bush and tosses it. Scrutinizing the
fallen leaf and the oracular message it portends, he
pronounces the result, “No friend, but there is, foe !"

Some distance away he notices the young one of a
deer grazing. Suddenly hearing the twang of a bowstring, the frightened deer runs to take cover. But
observing a lion sleeping in the bush he had
approached, he stands stunned shivering with fear.
Observing this scene he explains, “Oh! God, my
destiny is no different than that of this deer; and
grieving thus, he repeats the leaf-test and reading the
signs reaches the finding, “There is friend and there
is foe !" Now looking around he sees a serpent which
observing an eagle floating above in the sky, looks
out for a hole to hide in. Presently it spots one and
promptly takes shelter in it. Not quite satisfied with
this omen, Sugriva tries the leaf-tossing test which
said, “No foe, but friend, there is." About this time a

peacock begins its dance but a sudden forest fire
starts; the frightened peacock flie to a high rock and
continues its dance when the rains flush out the fire.
The sight of this scene pleases Sugriva.
It is at this juncture that Hanuman appears;
Sugriva welcomes him and they become friends.
When Hanuman and Sugriva are together, they notice
two men approaching some distance. Suspecting
danger, Sugriva sends Hanuman to find out who they
are. Hanuman escorts Rama and Laksluriana to
Sugriva and introduces them to him. Rama and
Sugriva enter into an agreement of mutual help and
Rama agrees to kill Bali. [This is a solo enactment
by Sugriva]
[Exit Sugriva]

[Then enter Rama, Lakshmana, Sugriva and
Hanuman]
[Sugriva accompanied by Hanuman, Rama and
Lakshmana, start for ‘Kishkindha‘, Bali's kingdom.

On the way Rama fells the Sapta Salas (seven
palmyra palms) with a single arrow]

Rama : Sugriva, look this way, this way. Sugriva, in
this fight you will soon find Bali knocked down by
me, lying on the ground with his body all cut and
tom with my arrOWs. I am going to fell him in a
moment. Standing by me you will presently see
him lying dead on the ground.
Sugriva : My lord, I know that with your grace and
blessings I can conquer even the kingdom of the
gods. How much easy then, it will be to conquer a
kingdom of the monkeys! I am sure of this
because : Oh, valiant lord, the arrow that you have
discharged from your how has pierced and passed

27

