through the trunks of seven big Sala trees of this
forest, each as tall and formidable as a peak of the
Himalayas. The arrow after passing successively
through these trees has continued its course with
unabated speed and force and pierced the earth,
reached Patala (the nether world) and has returned

to kill Bali after having washed itself in the ocean,
so I have no doubt at all that Bali will be killed.
Hanuman : Oh. lord, the comforting and reassuring
words coming from your mouth have dispelled all
our fears and sorrows. Now let us proceed towards

28

the mountain (the abode of Bali) as black as

clouds to secure victory for Sugriva.
Lakshmana : Look sir, this place which is full of
trees must certainly be Kishkindha.
Sugriva : What Lakshrnana has said is quite true. Yes
lord, we who are protected by your strong arms,
have reached Kishkindha which is protected by
Bali‘s strong arms. Sir, please wait here. I shall go
and challenge Bali to a duel in a thundering voice
which will shake all the three worlds.

arms against me.

[Here the actor going off the text of the play
enacts the story of Prahlada.]
Long ago, Hiranyakasipu, King of the Asuras,
had a son named Prahlada who was a great devotee
of Vishnu. Chagrined by his inordinate devotion to
Vishnu, Hiranyakasipu called his son to his side
and angrily asked him: “My son, whom are you
adoring and worshipping?" Prahlada replied:
“Father, I am devoted to none other than
Mahavishnu who is the lord and protector of the
three worlds." Hiranyakasipu angrily retorted:
“Am I not the protector of the three worlds? Who
is this Vishnu of yours? Prahlada calmly and
firmly replied: “It is Vishnu who is the lord and
protector of all the world." Then Hiranyakasipu
asked him: “Where is this Vishnu? Where does he
reside?" Prahlada replied: “Vishnu is everywhere
in all the worlds; he is omnipresent."

Hiranyakasipu : Is be present everywhere?

Rama : Let it be so, Go now.

Prahlada : Yes, he is present everywhere and in all
things.

Sugriva : I humbly obey your order.

Hiranyakasipu : Is he present in this pillar?

[All exeunt]

Prahlada : Certainly, he is in that pillar.

[Sugriva re—enters]

[Hiranyakasipu, in a fit of anger, struck at that
pillar with his sword and split the pillar. Vishnu, in
the form of Narasimha, emerged out of the broken
pillar and killed the king]

Sugriva : Your Majesty, Sugriva who did not wrong
you in anyway. was disclaimed by you and
expelled from your kingdom. Now he has come
back, intent upon doing reverence to you at your
feet, but in battle!
[Exit Sugriva]

[The entrance of Bali. As a prelude to the
entrance, he hammers at the door of the nepathya
with his ﬁsts, and roars out angrily. He then calls out
from the nepathya in a loud voice with a slight
starnmer] :

Bali continues : Tara, even that Narasimha will not
take arms against me in the fight with Sugriva You
need not be sad or frightened at all.

Tara : Be gracious to me, your majesty. Please give
this person a blessing, your majesty.
Bali : Tara, hear about my valour. In the days of
yore, when all the gods and the demons together
were churning the sea of milk for obtaining

“What? What? It is Sugriva, is it?"

‘Amrita’ (the elixir of life), I went there and asked

[Bali appears from behind a curtain]

all the gods and the demons to stand aside. Then I
grabbed the head of the terrible serpent Vasuki
with his wide open eyes, with one hand and his tail

Bali : What? Is it Sugriva, is it? [He gets up and
walks across the stage, preparing to leave. Looks
towards the left and sees that his wife, Tara. has
caught hold of his garment] My beautiful Tara,
please release your hold on my dress. I shall ﬁght
with Sugriva; you shall see Sugriva lying
exhausted on the ground with his body hideously
mangled by my blows and covered all over with
blood.
Tara : Be gracious to me, your majesty. There must
be sufﬁcient reason for Sugriva’s arrival.

Therefore, better seek the counsel of your
ministers before going out to accept his challenge.
Bali : Listen my beautiful Tara, I will surely defeat
Sugriva even if he is supported by the mighty
Indra himself; or even if he is backed by Lord
Shiva himself armed with his sharp-edged axe; or
let the lotus-eyed Mahavishnu himself support him
against me; or let Mahavishnu take the form of
Narasimha and come to protect Sugriva from me.
But I assure you none of them will come and take

with the other hand, alone and unaided, churned

the sea, while the gods and the demons stood
looking on with amazement.

[Here again the actor enacts the story of Amrit
M anthan . ]

Listen, Tara, long ago, when the devas were all
stricken with old age, the Devas and Asuras
thought out a plan for preventing and remedying
old age. They entered into a friendly agreement to
churn the ocean of milk in order to obtain Amrita.
Their plan was to use the Manthara mountain the
churning—rod and the snake, Vasuki as the rope.
While churning both the Devas and Asuras became
exhausted. At that time I churned the ocean
singlehanded. holding one end of Vasuki with one
hand. Seeing me do this work, both the Devas and
Asuras stood astounded. Therefore, I, who did this
astounding work. is not afraid of anybody.
Tara : Be gracious to me, your majesty.

