Bali : No more! You simply do as I say! Go inside
the house!

Tara : This luckless person is going. [Exit]
Bali : Ah! Tara has gone. Now I will go and ﬁnish off
Sugriva. [Hurrying forward] Sugriva, stop, stop!
Sugriva, even if you have Indra or the almighty
Lord Vishnu as your ally, once you come within
my ﬁeld of vision. you will not go away alive.
Sugriva : As your majesty commands.
[They battle with each other]

is not considered to be an unrighteous act. Since
you are an animal and you deserved to be killed. I
concealed myself in order to kill you.
Bali : So you consider that I deserve to be killed ?
Sri Rama : Without a shadow of doubt.

Bali : For what reason ?

Sri Rama : Because you have accepted a forbidden
woman.
Bali : Accepted a forbidden woman. eh? For us this
is not an unrighteous act.

Sri Rama : Look, look. Bali is rushing towards
Sugriva, biting his lips and showing his enormous
teeth, his eyes ﬁerce and red with anger, shaking
his clenched fists threatening like the fires of
deluge to burn everything to ashes.

Sri Rama : Sir. is it proper that you who is capable of
distinguishing between the righteous and the
unrighteous. and who is the king of the monkeys,
should consider yourself to be a mere animal and
accept your brother‘s wife ?

Lakshmana : Oh. brother, look at Sugriva Throwing
away all civilized rules of behaviour, he has given
himself up to the impulses of his beastly or
monkey-nature and is fighting with Bali. His eyes
shine red like fully-blossomed lotuses; his long
round shaping arms, resplendent with gold
bracelets, are raised high in a threatening gesture.

Bali : In this matter of accepting one‘s brother‘s
wife, I and my brother Sugriva are equally guilty
But you have punished me alone. You have not
punished Sugriva.

[Sugriva is struck down by Bali]
Hanuman : [with alarm and anxiety] Alas! Look at
Sugriva’s fallen and helpless condition. Bali is
certainly much more storng and powerful; my

Sri Rama : I punished you because you deserved to
be punished. One does not punish the innocent.

Bali : Sugriva accepted my wife; and I am his elder
brother. Therefore how can I be guilty in accepting
his wife?
Sri Rama : There is no law which permits an elder
brother to accept a younger brother‘s wife.

master (Sugriva) is weak. Please remember this

and the pledge that you have made to protect him.

Sri Rama 2 Hanuman, don't be alarmed or worried.
Look. I have already taken action [discharges an
arrow at Bali]. Alas! hit by my arrow Bali has
already fallen.
Lakshmana : See. Bali with his strong arms lies with
his body split by the arrow and covered all over
with blood. His red eyes are cast downwards as if
he is getting ready to go to Yarnaloka (the

kingdom of the god of death).
Bali : [Reading the letters of the name of the sender
on the arrow. to Rama] Rama, is it proper that you
who is valorous, who stands steadfast your duties
as a prince, and who is intent upon leading the
people along the path of righteousness. should
deceive me in battle in this manner. without the
least suspicion that you are committing an
unrighteous act? Oh! What a pity!
You who is good by nature and has a good
reputation among people. has now earned a bad
name by deceptively killing me in this manner.
Oh Rama, you have the matted hair of a hermit
and have, as garment, the bark of a tree. But your
thoughts seem to be at variance with your mode of
dress. You concealed yourself and killed me while
I was battling against my brother. Isn‘t this an
unrighteous act?
Sri Rama ८ So you consider that concealing oneself
in order to kill is an unrighteous act?

Bali : Undoubtedly it is.
Sri Rama : That is not true. Look! In hunting, one
conceals oneself in order to kill animals. Now this

Bali : In that case I have nothing to say by way of
reply. Since it is you who has punished me. I am
now indeed purged of all my sins.
Sri Rama : So be it!

Sugriva : Alas! Oh! king of the monkeys. with a gait
resembling that of an elephant, seeing your two
arms which resemble the trunk of an elephant with
their shoulder rings fallen off due to the force of
the enemy‘s weapon. lying stretched over the bare
earth. my mind seems to lose its balance.

Bali : Sugriva. do not grieve. This is simply the way
of the world.
[From inside] Alas! Alas! His majesty!

Bali : Sugriva, don‘t let the women come here. They
need not see me in this condition.
Sugriva : As your majesty commands! Hanuman, go
and carry out the order.
Hanuman : As the prince commands! [Exit]

[Re—enters Hanurnan bringing Angada. Bali‘s son,
with him]
Hanuman : Angada, this way. this way!
Angada : Having heard that his majesty, the king of
the monkeys. is approaching his end. I am on my
way to see him. with a heart laid down with grief.

Hanuman, where is his majesty?
Hanuman : Here is his majesty, his chest rent by the
arrow. lying on the earth like the Krauncha
mountain pierced by the lance of Lord
Subramanya.

Angada : [approaching] Alas! Alas! His majesty! In
former times the mighty king of the monkeys

29

