always used to lie down in comfort. I now see you
rolling on the earth, with your limbs weakened,
Sir, do you now wish to leave this body, pierced by
the arrows, and enter the paradise of heroes?

Talam : Nirmala Paniker

Troupe
Ammannur Chachu Chakyar Smaraka Gurukularn,
lri nj alakuda

[Prostrates himself at the feet of Bali]

Bali : Angada, don‘t grieve unnecessarily. Oh
Sugriva, forgetting all the wrongs committed by
me towards you and leaving aside anger, you, who
has now become the king of the monkeys, should
tread the path of righteousness and accept the
protection of this boy, the heir of our race.

30

29 M arch 1995

KUTI YA'I‘TA M

TO RA NAY UD DHA M
from Abhiseka Nataka (Act III) of Bhasa

Sugriva : As your majesty commands.

Author & 'Ileﬂ : See notes for Bali Vadham

Bali : Oh Rama, you should consider any wrongs
these persons may commit as arising due to the
fickleness common to all monkeys, and forgive
them.

Plot : Ravana, receiving the news of the destruction
of Asoka Vanika (Asoka‘s Grove) by a monkey
(Hanuman), reflects on his past life, his feats of
lifting Mount Kailasa and pleasing Lord Siva, as well
as displeasing Parvati and receiving her curse. At the
news that the monkey killed many Raksasas,
Vibhishana tries to advise Ravana, but the latter
disregards his attempts and orders him to bring
Hanuman. There is a heated exchange between
Ravana and Hanuman, with Vibhishana again
offering good advice to Ravana. Angry and upset,
Ravana orders to set fire to Hanuman’s tail.

Sri Rama : By all means.

Bali : Sugriva, accept this golden necklace, the
hereditary wealth of our race.
Sugriva : 1 am indeed honoured.

Bali : Hanuman, get me some water.
Hanuman : As your majestry commands!
[Makes his exit and then re-enters]

Hanuman : Here is water.
Bali : [sipping the water] It seems that my soul is
leaving this body. Here are the great rivers, headed
by Ganga! Here are the celestial darnsels headed
by Urvasi! And here is the air-chariot, borne by
one thousand swans, sent by the Lord of Death to
convey the souls of heroes! So be it! I am coming!

[Bali on the point of death makes convulsive
movements of his face and limbs and climacteric
breathing of Vayus such as Kshudraka, 'I‘amaka,
Cohinna, Mahan and Urdhva These laboured breaths
become more intense showing that death is close.
Bali dies]
[All say together: “Ha! Ha! the great king".]

Text ofperformance : The curtain is removed
showing Ravana in a reﬂective mood. He is surprised
and even unnerved at the havoc a monkey is capable
of, after getting into the irnpregnable Lanka.
Ravana : Alas, what a pity! Years ago I conquered all
the Devas and Asuras and the three worlds. As I
stormed the Kailasa (the mountain abode of Lord

Siva and his consort Goddess Parvathi), Parvathi
got frightened and trembled with fear. However,

Siva was pleased with me, but Parvathi and
Nandikeswara, irked by the indifference and
disrespect shown by me, cursed me, may be those
curses have now started taking effect on me.

An g ada : R a n} cc t h

[Here the actor, going off the text of the play,
develops through elaborate (zbhinaya the theme of
Kailasodharanam and Parvathi-viraham.
Kailasodharanam is the lifting and tossing of the
Kailasa mountain in the air. Parvati—viraham is
estrangement of Parvathi with Siva as she grew
jealous of her lord's relationship with the Goddess
G ang a.
Returning home after a successful battle with
Vaisravana, Ravana finds the path of his
Pushpakavimana (the flying chariot) obstructed by
Mount Kailasa; Ravana gets down from his chariot,
uproots the mountain, and throws it up in the air. The
abhinaya here includes a long description of the
mountain, its enormous size, the valleys, peaks,
caves, rocks, smaller streams trickling down from the
top and joining together to make great, meandering

A r'u)mpum.\'t.\'

rivers, etc.

Mizhavu : ( ‘. K. Krishnan Namhiar, V.K. Hariharan.
lll’. Rajeev, K. P. Narayanan Nambiar

At that time, Parvathi and Siva are conversing in
Kailasa. She is on his lap. She asks him, ‘What is
that on your head', (suspecting Gangadevi to be

Sri Rama : Alas! Bali is dead and he has attained
heaven. Sugriva, perform his funeral rites.
Sugriva : As the Lord orders, so it will be done.

Sri Rama : Lakshmana, perform the coronation
ceremony of Sugriva.
Lakshmana : As brother orders, so it will be done.

(.‘usl

Bali ८ Ammannur Madhava (fhakyar

Sugriva : Ammannur Parameswaran Chakyar

Sn Rama : (i. Venu
Lakshamana : Sooraj Nambiar
Tara : Usha Nangiar

llanuman : Kalamandalam Radhakrishnan

lidakka : ().N. (iopinathan Nambiar, Kalanilayam
l l n n iknsh nan
Kurum Kumal : Sudhin Shankar

there). ]
Siva : It is water.

