Parvathi : But I find a face; how can it be there?
Siva : No. it is a lotus ﬂower.
Parvathi : But how then the curls of hair ?

Siva : It is only a row of bees humming and settling
down on the ﬂower.
Parvathi : But, then what about the eye-brows ?
Siva : They are ripples in the water.
Parvathi : Eyes?
Siva : No, they are two black fishes.
Parvathi : And the two breasts?

Siva : They are Chakravaka birds.
Parvathi : Clearly, you are deceiving me?

[Saying thus, and no longer able to stand the
sight of Ganga being borne by her Lord, the jealous
Parvathi leaves him. But at this moment Kailasa was
being lifted up. The violent tremors caused by
Ravana frightens her and she immediately rushes
back seeking safety in the loving embrace of Siva.
The actor assumes the roles of Siva and Parvathi
alternately. As Parvathi. he shows the gradual growth
of her jealousy towards Ganga and the mixed
emotions of “Pranayakopam”. Siva, Parvathi and
their devoted servant Nandikeswara are pleased with
Ravana as his deed led to the happy reconciliation
between Siva and Parvathi. They appear before
Ravana and offer him boons. But Ravana arrogantly
refuses to receive honours from Parvathi as she is a
woman and Nandikeswara as he appeared in the form
of a monkey. Enraged at the insult, Parvathi and
Nandikeswara curse Ravana that monkeys will be the
cause of his ruin.)
[Ravana exit]

II
The curtain is held for the purappad (entrance) of

IV
[Curtain is held for Hanuman. He enters being
carried and led by two Raksasa servants of Ravana.
Vibhishana also accompanies him. After having been
left alone on the stage, Hanuman does some
movements characteristic of a monkey. ]
Hanuman : [to himself] It is not that I was taken
captive by that wicked Raksasa (Ravana). Rather I
let myself be captured, so that I can meet Ravana
in person.

[In the course of the abhinaya of the above lines
Hanuman describes in detail] how he wanted to leave
behind some record of his visit to Lanka and meeting
Sita; how he, with that object, destroyed the garden;
how he killed the garden keepers. the army
commanders (Panchasenapathi) of Ravana and his
son Akshakumara and how he eventually decided to
allow himself to be taken captive by Indrajit in order
that he might see Ravana himself. He also narrates,
giving occasion for much humour and fun. how the
guards in the garden were asleep snoring deeply;
how be tied the beards and hair together and
interchanged their weapons; how they all woke up
and ran helter-skelter, shrieking in excitement and
terror. Hanuman then leaves the stage. ]
[Ravana returns to his seat. Hanuman and
Vibhishana appear. Without being asked, Hanuman
takes his seat beside Ravana in utter disregard of
him. Ravana and Hanuman quarrel and Hanuman.
full of conﬁdence, makes fun of Ravana with his
pranks and antics]
Hanuman : Oh, king, how do you do?

Ravana to Vibhishana : Is that handiwork [meaning
the destruction of Ravana‘s garden] done by this
one?
Vibhishana : Yes, more than that.

Vibhishana, the younger brother of Ravana, who is of

a gentle dispositon. Vibhishana is on his way to
Ravana. He is critical of Ravana‘s action in
abducting Sita and in rejecting his repeated advice
for returning her to Rama.
Vibhishana : Alas! The king‘s (Ravana's) mind has

turned from the path of virtue. 1 have told him
several times to return Sita to Rama. But he won‘t
listen, to the utter grief of his friends.

Ravana : Hey, monkey, who are you? Why did you
come here disregarding us?
Hanuman : Listen! I am born of Anjana and the
wind-God. My name is Hanuman, a monkey, and I
am a messenger of Rama.

Vibhishana : King, you hear?
Ravana : Yes. but what for?

Vibhishana : Hanuman, what are Rama‘s words?

[Exit]
Hanuman : Hear Rama‘s command.

II I
[Ravana enters. takes his seat and waits for
Vibhishana. The latter appears and approaches
Ravana . ]

Vibhishana : Victory to the king.
Ravana : Vibhishana, come be seated,

Ravana : How dare you speak of Rama‘s command?
Finish this monkey off.
Vibhishana : Be pleased. ()h! King. Messengers
should not be killed whatever be their crimes and
wrongs. You may do what you like after hearing
Rama’s words.

Vibhishana : Yes, I am sitting.
Ravana : Monkey, what did that ‘man‘ say?
Ravana ८ Vibhishana, why do you look so upset and
distraught?
Vibhishana : Distress is the lot of people whose
master never listens to their words.

Ravana: Forget it. You just go and bring that monkey.
Vibhishana: As you please.
[Exeunt both]

Hanuman : Hear! No matter whether you take refuge
under Lord Siva or escape into the inaccessible
nether-world I will send you to Death with your
body all chopped up with my sharp arrows.
Ravana : l defeated devar with divine arrows under

my control. Even Vaisravana is in a fix losing his
I’ushpaka (divine chariot) to me. Then how can

31

