32

Rama, a mere human creature. confront me.
Hanuman : Then why did you choose to steal his wife
secretly.
Vibhishana : Well-spoken, Hanurnan — ()h. great king.
is it not by deceit that you abducted Sita disguising
yourself as a rnendicant and treacherously drawing
Rama away from her?
Ravana : Why do you defect to the enemy side?
Vihhishana : Oh. king, bear with me. My words are for
good. Return Sita, the wife of Rama, to him. I wish
that you. the great among Raksasas be not the cause
of the ruin of this race.
Ravana : Vibhishana, enough of this. How can a deer
kill a lion? How can a jackal kill a mighty elephant?
Hanurnan : Ravana, is it proper that you speak of Rama
this way? You devoid of all virtues. Wicked Ravana.
Rama is the hero of heroes. Like Indra. he is without
equal. You have lost all virtues. You are of no
signiﬁcance.
Ravana : What, kill this monkey or wait; killing of
messengers is reprehensible. Set fire to its tail.
[Hanuman is taken out leaving Ravana alone on the
stage]
Ravana : [to himself] Let me make necessary

arrangements now for the protection of the city of
Lanka.
Cast

Ravana : Sivan Narnboodiri

Vibhishana : Narayana Chakyar
Hanurnan : Rama Chakyar
Rakshasas : Krishna Kumar, K anaka Kumar
A cmmpa nists
M iz b avu : P. V. Is w aran un ni , A . N. H arih ar an

Edakk a : M. N aray anan Nam boodir i
Make- up & costumes
P. M. Rarnmohan. A. S. Rangan. M. Kunjan

Troupe
Kerala Kalamandalam. Cheruthuruthy.

है 9 M arch l 995

K UTI YATTA M

JA'I‘AY UVA DHA N KA M
from A 3‘din ry(1ch uda ma n 1' (Act II I ) of S h akti bh adr3

Author & Text : See notes for Udyana Pravesam

P10! : Ravana in disguise as Maya Rama is carrying
away Sita in a chariot. The charioteer (Suta) is in
disguise as Maya Lakshrnana. When in the chariot,
Sita‘s hand. while tying her hair chances to touch

Ravana. By the power of the ‘Choodamani‘ (magic
gem given to S i ta by Rama for protection against harm)
which S ita is wearing on her ﬁnger, Ravana's evil spell

is removed and his ‘maya' cease to work. The ‘maya‘
Rama form is lost and Ravana appears in his true form.
But. Ravana does not realise his change of form.

na
va
Ra
d.
ve
mo
re
is
n
tai
cur
the
As
:
e
nr
ma
or
rf
pe
of
Tex!

appears in his true form. Sita is frightened. She says,
“This is not my lord (Rama). Ravana — “Respected lady
do not be afraid. I am Rama only, Am I not your
beloved husband?" Ravana turns to Maya Lakshrnana
(Suta or charioteer) and asks him, “Why is this
(confusion)? '

Sita cries - “I am doomed."
Maya Lakshmana replies to Ravana. “What is the
fun of your saying you are Rama. You are ‘Rama' by
words only.
After .rloka, Maya Lakshrnana acts. “Your disguise
as Rama has failed. Now you have the protruding
canine teeth (of Raksasas or demons). They put to
shame the crescent moon in beauty. You appear cruel
looking and huge as the Hirnavan (mountain), quite
dark as the rain bearing clouds. Your ten heads look in
ten different directions. You are terribly charming and
enchanting, being in your natural form. Ravana. quite
surprised and embarrassed (at his foolish affirmation
that he is Rama only) says, “How did this (change of
form) happen?"
Muses for a while, then manages to cover his
embarrassment cleverly and says, “I am sorry 1
disguised myself as that worthless Rama. Really
despicable! Now I have cast aside that unpleasant
disguise and recovered my worthy self," laughs and
roars loudly. Enacts holding the ‘Chandrahasa‘ sword
proudly. Looks at Sita, who is to his right and standing
terror sticken and weeping. Gestures. “Alas, she is grief
stricken and weeping. I Shall console her," says —
“Respected lady. be not afraid. Why? I shall explain."
Recites rloka and enacts its meaning thus: “()h
charming lady do not be afraid of me. There is none
else in the three worlds as charming and virtuous as
you. You don’t have to fear anything. You can live with
me with all comforts He watches her, thinks. and asks,
“Why are you so sorrowful? When you are with me,
even the celestial world is in my control Watches and
continues, “You worry unnecessarily. You need not
hope that your husband or any one else will rescue you.
So do not worry.“ Continues, “When I am the enemy to
be won over, there is none in the three worlds to release
you from my hold. Even a combined effort of the
Devas (Gods) and Asuras (Demons) will fail. They
would not even contemplate such an attempt. Why?"
Recites .rloka and enacts.
“()n my expeditions l have tested my strength
against the celestial elephants guarding the cardinal
points of heaven. one by one. In this trial of strength.
their tusks tried to pierce my chest in vain. They could
leave only scars on my chest, which are here (on my
chest) for you to see for yourself. Who is there to
challenge such a person as me and try to rescue you?
Sita cries. “My revered husband, please rescue me.
Lakshmana, save me."
Suta (Charioteer) in disguise as Maya Lakshrnana.
“Why should I alone be in disguise? I shall also assume
my real form So saying he turns around thrice and
exits. The real Suta takes the stage and says aside, “He
is not Lakshrnana.“ She is terrified and cries. She
exclaims, "Oh my beloved husband, ()h my
Lakshrnana, please rescue me from the clutches of the
raksasa (demon)

