ARTI S TES

KALANILAYAM PARAMESWARAN
Born in February 1943 in Muttolapuramkara, Erankulam Dist, Kerala, Kalanilayam
Parameswaran initially studied Vesham at the Unnayi Warrier Smaraka Kalanilayam,
Irinjalakuda. Later he received training in Chutti and Koppu. i.e., Kathakali make-up
and costume-making under Kanzha Madhavan.
५
He is among the seniormost make-up artistes today for Kutiyattam and Kathakali.
He has travelled extensively with the Ammannur Chachu Chakyar Smaraka
Gurukulam for all major performances of Kutiyattam since 1986.
He is presently engaged in imparting training in the art of make-up and costumemaking at the Unnayi Warrier Smaraka Kalanilayam, Irinjalakuda. Shri K.
Parameswaran has received a gold medal from the Dr. KN. Pisharody Smaraka
Kathakali Club.
Address: Unnayi Warrier Smaraka Kalanilayam, Irinjalakuda P.0., Trichur Dist. 680 121 Kerala

G. VENU
Born in July 1945 in Pappanamcode, Kerala, G. Venu received his training in
Kutiyattam from Gurus, Ammannur Madhava Chakyar and Ammannur Parameswara
Chakyar. He has performed in several major art festivals with the Ammannur
G urukul am .
G. Venu is Well known for his contribution to the performing arts of Kerala as a
research scholar for which he received the Government of India Fellowships and the
Horni Bhabha Fellowship. Some of his major published works include 'Iblpavakoothu
— The shadow puppets of Kerala, Mudras in Kathakali, Pmduction of a Play in
Kutiyattam, and Mohiniyattam - the Lasya Dance. In furtherance of his work for the
arts of Kerala, he set up the Natana Kairali and also contributed in the formation of
Ammannur Chachu Chakyar Srnaraka Gurukulam at Irinjalakuda where he teaches at
present. He has received the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award.
Address: Natana Kairali, Ammannu r Chakyar Madhom, lrinjalakuda, Trichur Dist. 680 121
Kerala

P. M . RA MM 0HA N
Born in April 1947 in Karuvanam Kurussy. Kerala, PM. Rarnmohan learnt the art of
Chutti and costume-making from P.V. Govind Warrier and V.V. Rama Warrier at Kerala
Kalamandalam. RM. Ramrnohan has travelled extensively within India and abroad to
participate in major festivals. He has received M .S . Namboodiri Memorial Award for
his work in costume-making and as Chutti artiste. Presently, P.M. Rammohan imparts
training as Assistant Professor at Kerala Kalamandalam.
Address: Sribhadran, P.(). Puinkulam, Cheruthuruthy 679 531 Kemla

41

