AR'I‘I S TES

A.M . S I VAN NAMB 0 ODIRI

42
Born in 1950 at Kanayam Kolappully, Shoranur, A.M. Sivan Narnboodiri received his
training in Kutiyattam from Painkulam Rama Chakyar and Mani Madhava Chakyar at
the Kerala Kalamandalarn. He received a scholarship form the Government of India for his studies. Now a well known Kutjyattam actor. Sivan Namboodiri has performed in
numerous places in India and travelled abroad with the Kalamandalam troupe to
participate in major dance festivals. He received the title of Kutiyattam Chakravarthi
from Kalakshetra, Adyar. He is now teaching at Kalarnandalam.
Address: Vaisakhi, P.0. Ethanul; Via Koduvayur; Palgha! Dist. 678502 Kerala

KA LA MANDA LA M RAMA CHA KYA R
Born in 1950 in Painkulam, Kerala. Kalamandalam Rama Chakyar received training in
Kutiyattam from his uncle. the renowned master Painkulam Rama Chakyar and studied
Sanskrit under Unnikrishnan Elayath at Kerala Kalamandalam. A well known
Kutjyattarn actor and the leading member of the Kalamandalam troupe, he has
travelled and performed at major festivals in India and countries like USA, Japan. Italy
and throughout Europe. K. Rama Chakyar has received gold and silver medals for his
performances from Margi and Kanchi Kamakoti Jayaindra Saraswathy. He is presently
engaged in imparting training as Assistant Professor in Kerala Kalamandalam in the
Kutiyattam Section.
Addltss: Chakyar Madhom, Peruvanam, R0. Cherppu, Trissur; Kerala

A M MANNUR PA RA M ES WA RA N
Born in 1950 in Irinjalakuda. Kerala in the Ammannur family. Ammannur
Parameswaran received training in Kutiyattam under his uncles Ammannur Madhava
Chakyar and Ammannur I’ararneswara Chakyar. He received a scholarship and a junior
fellowship from the Government of India for his training in Kutiyattam.
He has been performing since the age of thirteen at the Koothambalams of 'I‘richur and
Irinjalakuda and participated in all the major Kutiyattam festivals presented by the
Gurukularn in India and abroad. Presently. he is teaching at the Gurukulam.
Address: Chakyar Madhom, lrinjalakuda, Trichur Dist. 680 121 Kemla

