Pratirn Parekh. Vidhyulata Bhatt, Arnit

Soni, Gaurav loshl, NehalUpadhyay. Code
Mantra is an unusual story of a court martial
case of a young armyofficer Second in
Command Ashwin Rathod. Set up against
the backgroundof the Indian Army,Code
Mantra promisesto challenge the very
notion of patriotismand how excess of it
can alsobe poison.
Today, 8.30 pm
Teipal Hall,Gowalia Tank

…….………है
Raavan KiRamayan
Watch Puneet Issar in the role of Raavan,
which is a re-look at the history from the
point of view of those who lost and never
got a chance to tell theirside of story. A
virtuous king of a prosperous kingdom
is outraged at the ravaged modesty of
his sister and sets out for a dignified
revenge. But he falls for the defiance and
audacity of an abducted woman and
ultimately throws his kingdom into a
great waragainst the will of many of his
ministers, wife including his eldest son.
Thewar within him poses him against
the questions of hiswife, sons, gods and
ancestors and war outside ultimately
becomes the eternal war of Sur and Asur
with high stakesfrom history on bothsides.
Today. 8 pm
Rangsharda Auditorium,
Bandra (W)

Selﬁe
Directed by: Tanaaz irani; cast: Tanaaz
irani, Dimple Shah, Kishwer Merchant,
Shweta Gulati, Priya Malik. Onefateful
evening in a ladies waiting room at a remote
railway station, five women find their lives
intersecting with cathartic consequences.
Blernishes must be hidden, flaws must be
air-brushed out and the real hard truth has
no place in our quest to be picture perfect.
But truth alwaysdoes get in the way as
we soon find out. Be prepared forsome
awesome wit, biting satire, gut—wrenching
drama and laughter.
Today. 730 pm
St Andrew’s Auditorium,
Band ra (W)
CodeMantra
Cast: Pratap Sachdev and Sneha Desai
with Rajesh Soni,Alpesh Dixit, Surai Was,

Jaat HI PoocthSadhu Kl
Directed by DineshThakur; cast: Arnan
Gupta, Preeta Mathur Thakur, SCMakhiia,
Atul Mathur andothers. Hindi version 0f
Viiay Tendulkar's Pairiie Jateeche by Dr
Vasant Deo.Jaat Hi Poochho Sadhu Ki is a
bitter comedyhitting out at casteisrn and
is also a tongue-in-cheek comment on
the education system that specialises in
churning out educated illiterates.
Today, 7 pm
Godrej Dance Theatre, NCPA,
Narirnan Point
BambayJan
Directed by Etienne Coutinho; cast: Denzil
Smith and Rhys Sebastian D’souza. A
semi-autobiographical musical play
about Scan and Anglo indian musicians
who broughtjazz influences into Hindi
filmmusic between the 19505 and 19705.
There’s jazz, there's rock ‘n' roll;there’s sax,
there's violins; there‘s egos and alcoholism;
there's love, passion and bounced cheques.
And there aresome of the biggest names
in popular culture from C Ramachanderto
Laxmikant Pyarelal to Shankar Jaikishen to
RD Burman.
Today, 5.30, 7.30 pm
Experimental Theatre, NCPA,
Narirnan Point

