CREATIVE PROTEST BY RAJPUR GROUP
"What ? Another play on environment by Rajpur Group ?" You may ask. Well, if
ever there was a need for a play on "sookha" it is now, when South, West and- North lndr are tryin‘g to recover from one of the werst droughts of the century.

For some States it IS the third

consecutive year of drought. - In Rajasthan and Gujarat this last summer tube-wells went so
deep they were actually mining fossile water thousand years old. Humans-Cu I tivatrons—Anrmals:

who, what suffered most ? And no use blaming the sun. or "el nino” the mysterious, hot current
from South America. Man is largely to blame for the deterioration of the climate by his deforestation and mining. for the preventive measures not taken and, once drought is there, for the
mismanagement of a drought situation.
'
Rajpur Group is. presenting here a play

"SOOKHI D HARTI, PYASA MAN” elaborated

in Rajpur during the month of December 87 with a group of participants from Rajpur, Dehradun

Ujjain and Delhi under the direction of Hafeez Khan from Ujjain and the on-the-spot creation of
the script by Avadesh'Kumar, a Dehradun writer. With the cadrdination by Vasant Dedhra. a
dancer from Bombay who also kept everybody fit with morning exercises, everyone worked extremely hard to prepare this one-hour play in three weeks.

-

"Sookhi Dharti, Pyasa Man", a project supported by the Ministry of Environment and
Forest, Govt. of India, is a play dealing with man’s deeds and misdeeds in a village facing a
drought situation, in a vigoroUs. fearless and sometimes comic ways.

The Rajpur actors give

a powerful rendering of the villagers' resistance to political manipulations, simply trying to survive. Two of them, Kama and Sanjay have already drawn rnuch applause for the strong characters they portrayed in the previous

Rajpur Group productions.

One the other hand, the actors

from‘Ujjain. who had all acted in the Mauni Baba's production of Ramayana there, infused
this play with a wonderful sense of “Good versus Evil“. lf Evils have been Shown in the play
goodness and courage have been shown too. leaving a hope for the future.
Rajpur Group. a registered society, was started in ’1979 by a handful of friends, artists
and musicians from Raipur and Dehradun. to organise the Rajpur Summer Festival, a three-days
open-air Festival gathering

every year thousands

of spectators

to watch professional tr0upes.

folk dancers, mimes, musicians, films, quawali: nautanki drama. etc-.., from several parts of
India, as well as the drama and dance prodUctions prepared

with Rajpur children under profe-

ssional directors during two-weeks warkshops preceding the Festival,

In the " last 5 years the

dramas created for the Festival have been on environment themes. Why ? It so happened that
five years ago the air pollution became so bad that one couldn‘t breathe, and ३ the hills around
Doon Valley were hidden from sight by a thick blanket of smoke So. far sheer survival we

became aware of environment problems. Something had to be done.’ So we did, ३ in our own field
as creative artists and with the sympathy and support of the Dehradun public and the Press. 7
"Devtaon ki Ghatti", "Uth Jaag Musafir", "Ek Per Ki Kahani", "Kutta Puraan and now
"Sookhi Dharti, Pyasa Man" were the plays produced in the last 6 years, with original scripts
soon to be published for a wider use by other groups elsewhere.
१

:‘Sookhi Dharti, Pyasa Man". our first winter production. is presented this month of
~ January 88 in several places including Rishikesh, Dehradun and New Delhi.

.

I

We thank you for your interest and support —

Jagdish and Florence Rastogi
Rajpur Group, 219-Rajpur Road, Dehradun (U.P.)

