Born — 6 June 1799, Moscow.
Died - 10 February 1837, Saint Petersburg.
th

Pushkin was a 19 century Russian Author and a Poet, considered the founder of Modern
Russian Literature. He blended the Old Slavonic with vernacular Russian and was the first
to use it in his Poetry. With Romantic contemporaries like Byron and Goethe, his ironic
attitude can be connected to Voltaire's literature of 18‘h century.
Pushki n was born in Moscow into a cultured but poor aristocratic family. His first published
Poem was written when he was only 14.
While attending the lrnperial Lyceum at T'sarskoye Selo (1811-1817), he began writing his

first major work, Ruslan and Ludrnila (1820), a fairy tale in verse. It was based on the
Russian folk-tales. In 1817, he, at the office at St. Petersburg got associated with members
of a Radical Movement who later participated in the Decernbrist Uprising in 1825. Several

of his liberal friends, involved in the affair were hanged or exiled for life to Siberia, but
Pushkin remained absent at the time of the insurrection. In May 1820 Pushkin was
banished because of his Political Poems, among them 'Ode to Liberty.‘ In a mild exile to
Ekaterinoslav he discovered the poetry of Lord Byron.

(1836)
During his last years Pushkin started a Historical Work on Peter the Great, which was left
unfinished. He got married to his love Natalya in 1829, but the marriage was unsuccessful
as his wife's affair with Georges d'Anthes brought voids in the relation. The scandal never
got over and Anthes fired his shot at Pushkin. On 10 Feb. 1837, he was buried secretly by
the Czar in a monastery near Mikhailovskoyet.

' त्र.
I

Many of his writings were published posthumously due to repressive censorship. He
believed that the oven/vhelming use of French by the upper classes delayed the progress
of Russian Literature. The tendency to idealize natural state of life both in work of James
Cooper and in political discussions in the US, were portrayed in his essay “Dzhon Tenner"

ष l LJ

Later to 1824, the new Czar, Nicholas I, allowed Pushkin to return to the capital. There he
openly abandoned revolutionary sentiments. In 1830 he visited Boldino, where he suffered
of Cholera. This was a very productive literary period when he wrote The Avaricious
Knight, Mozart and Salieri, The Stone Guest, The Feast During the Plague etc. The Queen
of Spades (1834), his most famous short story, was later made into an opera by
Tchaikovsky.

E PLAYWﬁi GH T

Even in exile Pushkin continued to write, gradually becoming the leader of the “Romantic
Movement”, during which he wrote Evgenii Onegin(1823). The character Tatiana, in the
concerned novel, has been regarded the ideal of Russian Womanhood. Pushkin's great
Historical Tragedy, Boris Godunov based on the career of Boris Fyodorovich Godunov, the
Czar of Russia, was published in 1 831 .

