>4 w
हुं
मि

m

म्य
E-l
हैनं

D

हैं

Aleksander Pushkin used the word "little" to emphasize the meaning of tragedy
while exploring the possibilities of the manner in which art develops as a part of
conflict, with the simultaneous process of dramatic action from beginning to end.
The cycle of Little Tragedies was created by Pushkin in two weeks during the
Boldinsky 1830's, which is believed to be one of the most creative and fruitful times
in terms of his creativity. This included plans for Mozart and Salieri, The Stone Guest
and The Feast during a Plague all aimed at creating tragedy within the framework of
an ideological artistic unity. The moral and philosophical content of the last tragedy
directly and publicly raises questions on the meaning of life; sums up and
generalizes the analysis of intimate human passions to a broader context.

Mozart and Salieri treats the tradition of Antonio Salieri's envy of Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart's effortless art and the injustice of Nature in dispensing her gifts.
Salieri is speaking to himself. He is too weak to oppose destiny and has already
been chosen as an instrument to stop Mozart, whose behavior is seen to be a
disgrace rather than enrichment to the field of artistic expression. Salieri believes
that Mozart's being alive will be threat to the genre of music. He compares him to a
cherub from paradise who has flown down to earth to raise wingless desires in
people and whose departure should be facilitated at the earliest. Knowing that
Beaurnarcha is a friend of Salieri's, Mozart asks him if he had poisoned someone; he
adds that Beaurnarcha was as much of a genius as Salieri and that genius
and
villainy/evil never co—exist. Mozart is convinced that Salieri is incorrect
in his
conclusions. At this point, even as Mozart raises a toast to harmony, Salieri
poisons
to his glass.

The Stone Guest is a variation of the Don Juan theme. Don Giovanni is
hiding in a
cemetery where there is a monument to the Commander who he had
killed on an
earlier occasion. He is waiting for Dona Anna, the widow of the Comman
der and is
dressed as a monk so that she cannot recognize him.

When she finally arrives she suggests that they pray together
but Don Giovanni
refuses saying that he is not fit for such honors. He reveals
his true identity and
admits that the rnonk's disguise is only a means to allow him, access
to her. He also
swears his passionate love for her. On hearing this Donna
Anna is shocked and
refuses him while telling him that as a widow she could never
entertain such feelings
and that she would die alone without ever dishonoring herself.
Don Giovanni begs
Donna Anna to reconsider him but she refuses.
The Feast During The Plague is a translation of a scene
from John Wilson's The
City of the Plague. In the midst of a feast, a Young
Man calls for everyone to
remember and raise a toast to one of their friends, Jacks
on, who recently died from
the plague. Walsingharn, however, stops them and
calls for a moment of silence
instead. He then requests Mary to sing something
sad before the rnerrirnent
resumes. She agrees and he is touched by her song.
Louisa on the other hand, thinks that Mary is just
trying to manipulate Walsingharn
by playing on his emotions. He thanks Mary
for her song and guesses that the
plague must have once visited her land as well,
which would explain the pain in her
voice as she recalls moments and memo
ries of that time. Just then Louisa
interrupts them with petty and cruel words.

Her cynical rant is interrupted by the creaking soun

ds of a dead-cart

passing by. She
faints. Walsingharn is then asked to sing
something in honor of the plague to chee
r
her up. When he finishes singing his
hymn, a Priest enters and chastises
the
rnerryrnakers for disrespecting the dead
and destroying the silence of coffins. After
the priest leaves the feast proceeds but
Walsingharn remains in deep thought.

