इनकी कला का उत्स बचपन है । इनका रंगमंच समर्थ रूपर्का का रंगकर्म है । वह
बचपन की एक स्वच्छ और गहरी स्मृति है जो व्यस्क जीवन के त्रासद आवेग रने
उत्पन्न विकृतियों के पथ चलती है। वह भूमि , जल , अग्नि , वनस्पति और
रेतीले टीलों की प्राचीन भारतीय नृत्य की लय में बंधी एक संखला है। एक

हैं

सशक्त सम्मिश्रण है यूरोपीय रंग-शैलियों, प्राच्य काव्य का और ब्रहमांडीय काव्य

हुँ

जगत में सूफी नृत्य की तालों का और वह है एक लगभग अन्तर्बिरोधी स्थिति,

पूरब के बद आवेगों और संवेदना में खुलती हुई एक त्रासदी की । ये अपने आप
को किसी भी अस्थायी, भौगोलिक या शैलीगत फ्रेम में नहीं बाँधते। इनका
थिएटर एक समग्र , समावेशी थिएटर है । ये ऐसे व्यक्ति है जो विभिन्न संस्कृतियों
और राष्ट्ररें की भावनाओं और आस्थाओं को स्वर देते हैं।

ﬂ
Ovlyakuli Khodjakuli

Born in Turkmenistan in 4959. He completed his course in Theatre studies at the

Theatre Institute in Tashkent in 1986. In 1988 — 89 he worked in the Artistic
Workshop in Tbilisi led by M. Turnanishivilli and went on to work as the Artistic

Director of the Turkmenistan Drama and Music Theatre from 4986 to 1990, and
then of the Youth Theatre in Ashgabat from 1991 to 1993. He has worked with
the Theatres from Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Russia and
Uzbekistan. Directed over 50 plays written by Shakespeare, Oscar Wilde, K.
Abe, Thomas Mann, Euripides, Garcia Lorca, Sophocles and Alisher Navoia.
Made a film Oedipus the King, based on the play by Sophocles and Seneca and

a documentary film on the artist Igor Savickiy;several others productions
including Abe's Woman In The Sands, Thoas Mann's Joseph and his Brothers,
Shakespaer's King Lear, Wilde's Saloma' Tikomacu's Suicide of lovers and
Navoyi's Raksu S'amo. He received Best Production Award at the International
Theatre Festival in Germany, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Russia and Finland. At
present he is believed to be one of the most prominent Director of and from

Centeral Asia.

The Theatre of Ovlyakuli Khodjakuli is a paradoxical phenomena that combines
the skills of the Russian Theatrical School with later 'sovereign' views that
believes art to be free from the idealized blinders of the Soviet Age. It is known to
be pragmatic, with temporary aims and turned in to human ideas on passions
and feelings. His Theatre is a Theatre of piercingly expressive metaphors. It
explores an expanse of human experience, ranging over the deep memories of

childhood and perversions of tragic passion in adult life as seen in King Oedipus,
to the natural beginnings and ritual rhythms of ancient Indian dances in Saffron

Sary, to the profound combination of the European Theatrical School with
a
Oriental poetical test and the soulful movements to the Sufi tradition within
Dramatic
of
cosmic poetical space in Raksu S'amo — Celestial Dance. As a form
and
and Artistic representation, it goes beyond the temporary, geographical

stylistic frames of nations, cultures and performing traditions and represents,
to soul
instead, a Theatre that defies the Iirnitations and boundaries which is true

M
O
E-1
U

हQैं
स्म

m
H
[-1
D
O

of essential human experience.

है

