I CHEKOV Kl DUNIYA
March 5 SRl RAM CENTRE - 4:30 PM

Playwright:
Produced by:

Neil Simon
The Entertainers, New Delhi

Duration:

2 hoursl 0 minutes

DIRECTOR'S NOTE

Since I was very young 1 ‘ve been fascinated with Chekhov. His easy style of
storytelling and his mesmerising control over the reader present stories
from the real lives of ordi nary men and women. livery time । read Chekhov. ।

feel 1 am a part of that chronicle.
These stories front Chekhov touch every human emotion. 1 wanted this
panorama, so that production is an emotional journey for the audience. I
have used music and lighting to make the emotional experience come alive. and 1 kept the
stage bare of major set constructions that may distract.
The writer's characterisations are so strong that my job as a director really was to make the
actor understand the character. the circumstances. and emotional states rather than tell
them what to do. This gives tremendous freedom to an actor. and an immense satisfaction for
me to see the play unfold. The actor and 1 begin to think on the same wavelength as the play
progresses. This allows for experimentation. discussion and innovation. making the entire
process. and the final product. truly delightful to the actors. to me. and hopefully for the
audience.
DIRECTOR: Ronjit Kopoor

' b.

Ranjit Kapoor joined the National School of Drama. (Direction) 1976. winning the Best
Director Avv'ard when he qualified for his diploma. He worked with NSD's Repertory Company
for several years. directing plays such as Begum lea 'Ikr/eia and Mule/mt Man/rt. He left the
Repertory in 1 979 to work independently.
He is also well known as a translator and adaptor of plays. and as an actor and writer of
screenplays. He has directed a number of television serials. and written dialogues for popu lar
films. for which he has also written songs and composed music.
He is a recipient of the Sahitya Kala Parishad Samman of Delhi (1991-92). Shikhar Samman

conferred by the Government of Madhya Pradesh ( 1999), the Sansu i ;\vv ard for the dialogue
of The Legend o/B/mgat .S'z'ng/J (2002) . and a Sangeet .\' atak ;\kade n 1 i Award. zooo.
SYNOPSIS
A collection of six short stories by Chekhov dealing with human relationships that run the
gamut between trite power plays. sublime love. the commonplace everyday. and exceptional
circumstances. and from the abyss of poverty to the idle games of the rich :
“Besahara Aurat“ features a wild woman with a nervous disorder who tries to extort money
from a banker.
“Dooba Hua Aadmi“. in which a man in the 'maritime entertaimnent business' will drown
himself for a smal l fee.
“Shikari” shows a nvan—about-tovv'n giving an instructional session on seducing women.
using a new husband as the conduit for an attempted seduction ofthe man's bride. Irena.
“Cheenk”. an ironic tale. in which 'The Suee/er' cannot apologise enough to a blustering
general for sneezing on his head at the opera. ‘The Clerk' cannot redeem himself ofguilt. and
fear of demotion .
“Surgery" is the story of a man with a toothache faced with an inexperienced dental
assistant attempting his first tooth examination.
“The Gift" is a tale of a dedicated father who thrusts his shy. I ‘)~year old son into manhood
by taking him to a house of ill repute. only to relent at the last moment and leav e the boy more
perplexed than ever.

