CHEKOV KI DUNIYA

N 0M I N EES

CAST &CRED ITS

B EST ACTOR: Amitabh Srivustuvu

CH H EENK

Amitabh Srivastava graduated from the National School of Drama (Acting)

Clerk: Ashwin Chadha

in 1979. Soon after, he plunged into theatre'111 Delhi where he associated
३

with major theatre directors E. Alkazi, B. V.Karanth, Fritz Benewitz, Ranjit

., नेह Clerk's Wife : Mukta Singh
३ Kapoor, Barryjohn, Amal Allana, Prasanna andDevendra Raj Ankur. For the
Mukta divides her time between theatre and television, a trained actor in
last twenty-five years he has been writing for TV and cinema, and has
drama/theatre from Sri Ram Centre of Performing Arts (2003-2005) .
' '
performed in numerous stage plays, TV serials, telefilms and films. He has
written screenplays for feature films Hey Ram, Abbay, and WhiteRalnbow.
General: Amitabh Srivastav
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR (MALE): Ashwin (hudhu
General's Wife: Manishi Sapra
Ashwin Chadha holds a diploma in acting from the Imago School of Acting. SURGERY
He was associated with Theatre Action Group (TAG) and acted in 0 Come
Padri: Shailendrajain

Bul/ey Stomach, Blood Brothers, A Flea in Her Ear; Mangta Haz' Now and I
Shailendra Jain started working in college plays and the passion grew. He
Manta, directed by Barry john. He also played Cassio in Shakespeare's
travelled extensively, in India and abroad, with Habib 'I'anvir's famous playAgra
Othello directed by Mohan Maharishi. He has had lead roles in Rani it
Bazaar:
Kapoor's stage productions. Ashwin is presently dubbing the voices of Gen.
Musharraf and lnzamaam ul Haq for NDTV's Double Take and GustaleblMaaf.
Dr's Assistant: Brij Bhushan Shukla
BEST COSTUME DESIGN : Anila Singh
Brij Bhushan Shukla has been involved with theatre for 12 years as an actor, and
Anila S. Khosla graduated with the Best Actress Award from the National
acting trainer. He has worked with NDTV for the past ﬁve years, operating behind
School of Drama and was a member ofthe N.S.D. Repertory until 1981. With
the scenes as an assistant producer, puppeteer and voice artist for the well
the Repertory, she designed costumes for Barry John's The Fool, Kapoor's known political satire, Gustaleln'Maaf
Mukyamanm', R.G.Gopal's Surya Ki Antim Kiran Se, Uttara Baokar's
SHIKARI
Sandbya Cbbaya and Kabbi Na Cbooden Kbet directed by Raina, and
others.

Peter: Ashwin Chadha

Since her return from New Ybrk, Anila has designed costumes for many productions Husband: Amitabh Srivastav

including Raina‘s Munto Hazir Hal, Ankur's Mausam darMausam, Ranjit Kapoor's Hum Wife: Mukta Singh
Rabe Na Hum and Auntz'yon Ka ’Ieblebana.. She is an accomplished actress and has BESAHARAAURAT
appeared in numerous Hindi and English plays for theatre and television.
Assistant: Warniq Abbasi

Was the founder member of Collegiate Drama Society Repertory, later known as
The Entertainers. He worked with Naya Theatre in many of their productions

and traveled nationally. He recently went to Germany during the Bonne
Biennale withAgra Bazaar.

