H i ndi
Bengah

NATI BINODINI
March 5 KAMANI AUDITORIUM - 7:30PM

Produced by :
Language

Theatre & Television Associates, New Delhi
Hindi, Bengali

Duration

I Hour 40 minutes

N OM | N E E5
BEST DIRECTOR: Amal Allana

DIRECTOR NOTES

Amal Allana is a graduate of the National School of Drama, and followed with a two year
apprenticeship at the Berliner Ensemble and other theatres in the GDR. She has directed
over fifty plays for the stage, several plays and serials for television, designed costumes for
For me each project is more challenging than the last, as one sets oneself
stage and film, curated exhibitions, researched and written on theatre and engaged in various
more difficult tasks each time. Putting Natz' Binodini together was quite a
related activities. Concurrently, she has taught theatre direction at prestigious institutions in
complex business. The approach was founded on 'enactment as slices of India.

memory'. The fragmentary text does not follow a chronological order. The
fragmentary structure is visualised in the central character, being split into 5
selves. These 5 Binodinis exist simultaneously on stage. They acknowledge
each other's presence by talking to one another, relating as mirror images, or echoes, of
themselves. At other times, they exist independently, engaging as friends, or even as distant
observers, to one another. This constant interplay amongst the selves re-inforces the
monologic quality that is intrinsic to Anzaar Kat/1a . For me, the script, and the play itself, has
evolved into, what I call, ‘a monologue for 5 voices’.

She is currently Head ofActing at The Dramatic Art & Design Academy (DADA) and is Artistic
Director of Theatre & Television Associates, New Delhi. Amal Allana is the present
Chairperson of the National School ofDrama, New Delhi.
BEST ORIGINAL SCRIPT: Amal Allana and Salirna Raza

Allanas plays are as deeply 'Indian' as they are truly 'international', because she has a vision
that transcends narrow definitions of culture and nationality. A meticulous observer of the

'human condition', she combines a passionate understanding of individual psychology with
Grounded in research. with lyrics and tunes of famous songs and popular ditties unearthed
a world View that enables her to reﬂect the universality ofhurnan experience.
by our music director, Devaj it Bandyopadhyay, we recorded and rendered the songs anew, in
Hindi and Bengali, for the production. All our research is woven into the fabric of the text to Salirna wrote, directed and acted in the film Dbaage Prem [(6, a landmark film on
give it a rich and multi-layered sense of the period. Our team has been working in this communal harmony.

collaborative manner for many years, and we find this process of discovering the play BEST ACTRESS : Salirna Raza I
through many avenues, exciting, liberating and inspiring. The process of evolving Binodini
Salima began her stage career with the Delhi Art Theatre production of
has been over a period of 2 years!
Kanjoos in 1958 for which she received the Best Actress Award. She followed
Binodini stood on a line between a prostitute‘s shame and an entertainer's distinction, and

with the Delhi Natya Sangh Best Supporting Actress Award for Dinner with
The Family in 1960. She was a founding member of Yatrik. She played the

asked to be accepted with the respect she felt she deserved. At no point did she compromise,
nor was she apologetic. For a woman of those times, an articulation of this nature required
enormous courage and belief.

main role in Y'atrik'sAzarKa waab. She also played the main role in Lilette
५ '

SYN O PS | S

Dubey's Aatmakatba. In the 905, she joined Theatre and Television

Associates and has since then performed in Char Cbaagbz', Sonata Er'endna and Natz'
Binodinz.

A play in twelve parts based on the autobiography Aamar Kat/9a. The narrator, the elderly

Bi nodini . reﬂects on her fate, from her beginnings in abject poverty and an imminent future Salima has acted in over twenty-five plays in India and abroad in Hindi, Urdu and English.
in the sex trade. then rescued for a life in the theatre. The vicissitudes of her life are She has been closely associated with radio and TV since 1955, in India and abroad.
complicated by a seemingly inescapable fate, in spite of the training of unique guru, Girish She presently teaches speech in theatre at The Design and Dramatic Art Academy (DADA) in
Ghosh. She finds herself obliged to live a double life as kept woman and actor. Her Delhi.
commitment to her theatre vocation is further disappointed by betrayal and a crisis in faith.

The memories of her finer moments are stained by her shame and exploitation. Girish
Ghosh remains noncommittal about her autobiography. Mourning her departure from the
theatre. and other losses. she experiences a revelation and the presence of the Almighty.

