H i nd i

NATI BINODINI

BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR(MALE): Jayanta Das

Bengah

Natasha Rastogi
Natasha has extensive acting experience in theatre, film and television. She

Jayanta Das15 a seasoned theatre television and film actor. From the age of
16 he actedin, and directed, many playsin Bengali and Hindi, nationally He

has performed in a number of plays directed by Amal Allana. She has acted

has performed under the direction of leading directors including Habib

as Sona Verma in Mira Nair’s Monsoon Wedding. Her film and television

Tanvir, M. K.Raina and Rajinder Nath. Jayanta was a member of the theatre
group Players with Frank Thakurdas, Kulbhushan Kharbanda, Ravi Baswani
and D inesh Thaku r.
He has been recipient of amateur awards for acting and directing over an extensive period. He

credits extend to serials, telemovies and commercials.

Amita Ailawadi
३ Graduate from Delhi University, Am ita has been acting for 8 years in theatre,
and has worked with M .S. Sathyu, Robin Das, Surender Sharma, and Avtaar

has also acted in feature films.
Sahan i . She has acted in 12 plays and has studied Kathak dance for 3 years.

BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR (FEMALE)
Swaroopa Ghosh
Swaroopa Ghosh performed professionally on Kolkata stage throughout her

college days and afterwards with major Bengali directors. When she moved

"३

" " "३ '

to Delhi in 1989 she was selected for the National School of Drama Repertory
Company. After leaving NSD Repertory she joined Yatrik Theatre and Joy
Michael. Swaroopa later joined Alkazi's Living Theatre and worked with
Barry john and Zuleikha Choudhury In 2004 she became associated with

BEST C H 0 RE0 G RAP H Y: Preeti Va5ud eva n
Preeti Vasudevan, artistic director and choreographer, has done groundbreaking work in contemporary dance. She has her roots in Bharatanatyam.
Indian classical dance, combined with cross—training in other eastern and
western movement and theatre styles. Preeti holds an MA in Dance Studies
from the Laban Centre in London, specialising in choreography and
movement analysis.

Theatre and Television Associates and began working under director Amal Allana and has She has received many Fellowships, including the Indiana Arts Commission, Individual Arts
performedin Erendira and Mm Binodinz'.

Sonam Kalra
.

fellowship, USA, and a Creative Renewal Arts Fellowship from the Arts Council of
Indianapolis, USA (1999), and has been recipient of a Cultural [Exchange Scholarship from
Takasaki Arts Center College, Japan (1994). Preeti is the founder and artistic director of
Sonam has had many opportunities as an actress including thi Binodinz'. Thresh, an international collaborative multimedia arts group.
She has played the female lead in a Teamwork Production, Yeh Hdi anhdi
.llerijaan, a musical directed by Sanjoy Roy, and played the female lead in BEST COSTUME DESIGN : Ama | Al lana
The Heart ofTheMdtter. a play about cancer, directed by Sita Raina.
Current Head of Acting at The Dramatic Art & Design Academy (DADA) and
Artistic Director ofTheatre & Television Associates, New Delhi.
Sonam has anchored TV shows such as The Red] India Travel Show and
'5१11

"
Wheels for the BBC. as well as MusaﬁrHoon Yadron for Star Plus. She continues to work as a
freelance copywriter to support her artistic endeavours.

