NATI BINODINI
BEST STAGE DESIGN & BEST LIGHTING DESIGN: Nissar Allana
CAST &CRED ITS
Nissargraduated at the Grant Medical CollegeIn 1971. The same year he/ Director. AInalAllana
began designing theatre sets and lights and has designed for over seventy BinodI 111' SalI ma Raza,
Swaroopa Ghosh, Natasha Rastogi, Sonam Kalra, AmitaAilawadi
productions for theatre, television and special events. Nissar worked in
JayantaDas
Ghosh:
Girish
Berlin as a scenographer assistant at the Schaubuhne with the famous

A. Babu: San] av Gautam

designer/director team Karl Ernst Herrman in 1975. He was appointed as
Fellow of the Theatre Department in 1978 at Punjab University. Nissar has
worked as scenographer and lighting designer with directors like Amal Allana, Richard

Sanjay has a Postgrad Dip from the NSD (Acting) 2001, and is a scholarship
recipient for the Theatre Training Research Programme, Singapore (2004). He

Schechner, RolfStahl, Egil Kipste, Zuleikha Chaudhari and others.

has training and experience in traditional and contemporary forms.
N issar has received the Sangeet Natak Akadem i Award, and is presently director of the theatre Gurmukh Rai: Sanjay Gautam
academy, DADA. The Dramatic Art 8; Design Academy, and producer for Theatre & Television
Script: Amal Allana, Sal ima Raza
Associates.
Translation: Salima Raza

B EST SO U N D D ESI G N: K0 bI r SI ngh
Sets & Light Designer: NissarAllana
Kabir Singh gained a DiplomaIn Audio Engineering, at the School of Audio Choreographer: Preeti Vasudevan
Engineering (SAE), Mumbai 2006.
‘

Music composer: Devaj it Bandyopadhyay

Kabir has an impressive list of professional productions that he has
Dr Dejavit Bandyopadhyay has experience and specialist training in music and
dramaturgy and is a leading practitioner and theoretician in the ﬁeld of Bengali
music. He currently sits on the panel of the ICCR as a singer, andIs a National
(2005) and to the Bonne Biennale, Germany (2006). He has worked as
Producer for Doodarshan.
sound designer for Varun Narain in street and puppetry theatre. Kabir has designed sound for
live events including a sound and light show atJaigarh Fort, Jaipur, directed by Nissar Allana Sound Design & Song Eng: Kabir Singh
designed sound for that includes Erendz'ra and The Mahabharata Project
directed by Zuleikha Allana, which traveled to the Prague Quadrennial

(2004). He has also been involved with the Gere Foundation seminar event to increase AIDS Assistant: Cabir Maira
awareness (2004). He has taught at university level at Rai University, New Delhi in a course Costume designer: Amal Allana

about the "Aesthetics of Sound Design" to undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Associate Costume Designer: Urvashi Bhargava
Urvashi has been involved in styling and fabricating costumes since 2002.

Production Assistant: Divya Malhotra
Set Construction: Prem Chand
Assistants: Kuldeep, Deepak
Lighting Assistant: Lal Saheb Mishra
Technical Assistance: DADA students

