PEER GYNT
March 6 SRI RAM CENTRE - 4:30 PM

Produced by:
Duration :

Khilonu
2 Hours ] 0 Minutes (I 0 Minute Interval)

SY N 0 PS I S
The journey of the young man Pier (in11. a feckless dreamer who abandons responsibility to

all who care for him to inhabit a fantasy world of easy fame and fortune. Iixiled from his
village. he sets about winning and losing fortunes. gaining and losing respect. and applying

DIRECTOR NOTES

Ibsen called Peer @1711 a poetic fantasy. Today. in India. not only youth and
adults. but children as young as ten years and above identify with Peer (iynt.
a lovable character Ibsen drew from Norwegian folk-lore. Peer (Iynt spins
tales to prove his worth by fantasising. doesn't take responsibility in life. and
has a self-centered attitude to achieve his goals. I Iowever above all else. he
searches for his ‘true self ' .

his mental faculties to the point of madness.
The girl who once spurned him for drunkenness. Solyieg. has waited faithfully through the
years. while he roamed the world not giy ing her a thought. .-\ged and disillusioned. his return
to the village heralds his presence as no more than a myth. a fairytale. and unrecogni/ed and
unwelcome. he exiles himself to the forest There. he realises that the core. the truth at the
heart of the onion is. that he wasted his life utterly. and shattered by this discoy ery. he repents

Children of today mature fast. We cannot sery‘e 'childish' ideas to them. They have to be taken his follies. I Ie is rewarded by 8on ieg's forgiyeness.
seriously. and brought to face the realities of our present world through aesthetically rich.
N 0 M I N E ES
philosophically wise. and yet entertaining and truly professional theatre. This is what Ix'hilona
lbealre
children's
a
of
inclusion
the
us.
For
has been striving to create for the past 20 years.
BEST CHOREOGRAPHY; Vikrom Mohan and Vikrum Kuushik
group, in this prestigious mainstream theatre festival. is like opening the gates to welcome a
Both \‘ikram Mohan and Vikram Ix'aushik trained under the
Professional Theatre for Children in India.
well-known choreographer. I’ernando ;\guliera. at the
The production is the result of 2 months of workshop comprising sen ior members of Rh ilona
American Iimbassy School. Vikram Mohan also trained with
and N81) graduates, followed by 2 months of rehearsal with a team of professionals.
३ Shyamak I)awar. Both Vikrams were part of Ix'hilona's 2—
month intensive 'l'heatre Workshop and both also perform as
I am grateful to Robin Das for his invaluable advice and to my partner in work and life, Ki ran .
for her all —rou nd involvement. I thank the Royal Norwegian Embassy who funded this project E
character voices in l’eer ([1711.
and made us part of the International Ibsen Year 2006 celebrations.

BEST COSTUME DESIGN and BEST STAGE DESIGN : Robin Dos
DIRECTOR: VK
3 Robin Has. a post graduate (Dramatics) from the National School of Drama.
3 joined its teaching faculty in 1077. I Ie has since been inyoly'ed in a plethora
of designs. productions of diverse genres. and development of teaching
similar
up
set
to
N81)
the
assisted
has
works for children. Under his directorship, the group
methodologies. Ilis explorations have included dance. music and the
companies.
plastic arts. creating new contexts and relevance for tribal culture. I I is play
He has written and adapted many plays for children and conducted workshops in theatre
presentations constantly seek the inherent modern and post—modern
production for children.
elements inherent in our folk and traditional forms. I lis notable works in design and art
He is the first children's theatre practitioner to be honoured with the prestigious Sangeet direction include Shila Shringaar. Ibsen's Ll Doll's" House. I Iaxariprasad l)wivedi's . Imam/as
NatakAkademi Award in Theatre Direction (2005) .
Ka Pot/9a, Jaishankar Prasad'sjananr/aj' ly'a Naag I'ogra and Shudrak's .IIricc/J [y'all/kiwi.
and set design for Ii. .»\Ika/.i‘sjaag (’t/Ja llai It’aIgar/J. and Costumes/Sets Props for IHL

A graduate from the National School of Drama and a member of N81) Repertory (lompany for

4 years, he is the founder and director of Khilona, India‘s first company of adults performing

