I TH E MIRAGE
March 7 SRI RAM CENTRE - 4:30 PM

Produced by:

Thuloi-K-Kol (Pondicherry)

DIRECTOR: Dr .V. Arumugham
Dr. Arumugham presently teaches at the School of Performing Arts, Pondicherry University.
Duration:
1 Hour
Director of, and actor in, many plays touring to national and international theatre festivals, he
DIRECTOR NOTES
was troupe leader of the 'I'heru-K-Koothu group in the Festival of India in France (1985).
Everything emerges from one and merges together into the same. The Sweden (1987) and the Festival de l'imagenerie in Paris (1997).
Panncha Boothas (The Five Matters) came to be when the Absolute Power
SYN 0 PS|S
became one with Mystic Power. The Universe is in motion like a puppeteers’
puppets. The Earth moves, men are activated, his soul is activated. The An abstract treatment of the eternal questions, the mystery of the Universe and the existential
quest for the self arises. The soul tries to identify The Eternal Soul. The soul problems of man and society. The play begins with Nandi by Suthradharan, a group of people
who narrate whatever they eat, including the entire solar system, electrons and neutrons, all,
मृ tries to merge with The Eternal Soul.
to be eaten and digested. But something is indigestible! See worlds rotate and revolve in the

The search begins. The roots are many. Their destination is the same. When the soul realises
the Eternal Soul, both unite. Men disappear. The earth disappears. The universe continues in

Panja Bhootha: Earth, Water, Air, Fire and Space in a cosmic dance. See new worlds in

motion .

embryonic form. Search-connection-struggle-constraint-loss, and the macro and
microcosm ic views . The cosmic wheel turns. And turns again.

What made the whole un1'1terse?
What is made ofau atom ofan atom?
It is about the meu urho searchfor it.

It is about the thought ofurhat he has thought sofa]:
0fthephz'losophz'es.
0fthe I'elzgious.
0fthe truth it tells.
0fthe science.
thhe truth it knows.
quuestz'om'ng the unleu0u 'upuzzles 0fthe truth.
Theplai' Mirage.

