TH E MIRAGE
N 0M | N E ES

Performers: P. Suresh, S.Danush, A.Praveen, C.M.Sushaj, K.Kanagaraj, Vasanthakumar.
D. Ravikumar, S.Balamurugan

B EST CH 0 RE0(3 RAPHY: D r .V. Aru m ug ha m
In 1990 Dr. Arumugham conceived of the concept of 'Prop's 'l‘heatre' and received support Lighting: Prof.C.Raveendran
from the Sangeet N atak Academy scheme to direct Karuncbuzbz' (1990) and 0031' (1992) . He
received an lndo-French residency award to research contemporary theatre and
choreography in 1995. In the same year, he received a fellowship from the British Council to
visit London to study contemporary British theatre. He performed one man ’I‘heru-K-Koothu
performances in the U. K, France, Germany and Switzerland.

Lighting Assistant: V. Baskan

BEST LIGHTING DESIGN: D R. C. Raveend ru n

९.३ ’ '

Dr. C.Raveendran has been associated with the modern theatre movement

है

in ’I‘amilnadu commencing lighting and set design in 1981 for an extensive
number of plays in 'I‘amilnadu and Delhi. He has also conducted lighting

workshops with university and theatre groups in ’I‘amilnadu. He has
participated as lighting designer in national and international theatre

festi ls in Singapore (1990, 1998) Colombia (1996), France, Germany and Switzerland
(1997). He is currently fulltime and resident lighting designer for 'l‘halai-k-kol at
Pondicherry.

Singer: Murugavel

CAST &CREDITS (Ensemble)

Costumes & Production Manager: 1ndira Arumugham

Bhavani Peramesmari

Active member of Thalai-k-kol since its inception, lndira participated in national and
international theatre festivals in France, Germany and Switzerland as an actor. She has been
costume designer and production manager for many ’l'halai-k-kol Productions.

Budding child actor of'l'halai-k-kol. Mirage is her maiden performance.
Kann iyaku m ari

Active member of'l‘halai-k-kol since its inception, Kanniyakumari has acted Script, Design, Choreography 8: Direction: Dr.VArumugham
in previous Thalai-k-kol productions, and in the televition productions of

the plays Karuncbuzbi, 00st, and Agini/ekuncbu. Participated in national
and international theatre festivals in France, Germany and Switzerland.
\i Rain esh

Formal qualifications in design, journalism/communications, and theatre arts. He runs a
computer artwork and creative design development business for TV Ads, and web developing.
He participates in theatre whenever possible.

