I APEKSHA

,

३f

हँहँट्सदुनंदृट्वेंहृज्जाक्ति,

March 7 KAMANI AUDITORIUM - 7:30 PM

Produced by:

SEAGULL

SYNOPSIS

Duration:

1 Hour30 Minutes, no interval

The journey of two Brahmin widows living in the midst of the Satras in the postindependence era is the theme opreks/m. The elephant as a symbol of man's strength and
means of livelihood underscores a setting revealing disaster in the lives of many. Even in the

DIRECTOR NOTES

After passing 01" from the National SChOOl 0f Drama 1 established Seagull Satras, prominent in the society, the grip of opium, and ﬂourishing post independence
and began rehearsals at home.

Communism became a headache for the Adh i kar of Satras .

MvAmma WOUId Sit in the 8U“ 311d WillCh OUF rehearsals.

The widows Durga and Horu Gokhani both support religion and Sanskaras. although with

[ {00k courage - and kept on with theatre.

very different aims. Both w an betel leaves on their feet taking care not to touch the ground.
during their menstruation. Durga anticipates her in-laws coming to take her to her

Despite living with all family members, I saw Amma suffer from some
husband's home; her only dream is ofgoing to Kashi to release her dead husband's remains.
unidentifiable loneliness.

and to shave her head. Horu Gokhani is courageous and determined. After her opiumShe looked feverish all the time.
One day she left us, just like that.

addicted husband dies she carries on her family by herself. She also keeps a man close to her,
as her heart wants to dream.

Her unidentifiable loneliness imprinteddeeply on my mind.
The plavApe/esba is a follow-up ofmyAmma's condition.

Sometimes even the powerful elephant gets mad, just as the men of the Satras become
agitated. But are the wishes, and dreams of these two lonely women fulfilled?

In this male—dominated socrety, time and shackles of princrples - a soulful analysrs of the

W“
From the novel Dom/[lam Woot'e Kbolm ll/m'ou’u

love, sacrifices, and religion in the minds ofwomen-this is my playApe/es/aa.
Written by (iyanpeeth awardee Smt. Mamoni Raisom (ioswami

ABOUT SEAGULL
Established in l 990 at the initiative of a few theatre activists and some NSD graduates, Seagull
has emerged as one of the prominent theatre troupes in the region. The main objective of
Seagull is to improve the existing style and form ofAssamese theatre with systematic practice
and training.
Seagull undertakes a Repertory Company, a Theatre Academy, a publication wing, organises a
theatre festival, works with children in need, organises theatre workshops, organised the
B.V.Karanth Memorial Lecture, runs a Children's Academy and manages a Studio Theatre.
They have staged numerous plays and participated in many national theatre festivals.

Seagull introduced Weekend Theatre in Guwahati from September 2005 at their own Studio
Theatre.

