Assamese
(English subtitles)

NOMINEES
BEST DIRECTOR & BEST STAGE DESIGN : Baharul Islam
Baharul Islam graduated from the National School of1)rama (Acting).

CAST &CREDITS
Horu GOkhani: Feroza Begum
ध Durga: Bhagirathi
'
a“

l le has designed and directed many plays: I ’ru/e/Ja, Howl) Saraigbat, Abbimomnyu,jatm,

Simar Si/mre, Glued/Juli Gmea/Jatz’, [Io/i. Ape/esba, Court Mars/ml, Moz'prenmrpinjmnt
[Jamil that have played in festivals for Bharat Rang Mahotsav, Nandikar, ZCC, Sangeet Natak
Academy, Prithvi. Nehru Centre, and PDA festivals. Most recently he designed and directed
Edward Albee's ll’bo 's let/mid of Virginia Wool/P for the National School of Drama Repertory
Company. New Delhi (2006) . anuly of the same year he directed Anton Chekhov's Seagull for

,

,.

m a.
ﬂ
आँ

J

Giribala: Nirrnali

the Rangayana Repertory Company, Mysore.

Baharul has acted in Assamese feature films and radio plays regularly for twenty years. He
Guimenni: Arundhati

spent 4 years with Mobile Theatre (Bhrayamaman) in Assam as actor/director working with
groups: Bhagyadevi, Kohinoor, Anirvaan and Meghdoot, during which time he directed and
performed extensively. He has acted in telefilm, serials and features, has directed a feature

film. short film . and has produced and directed documentaries and a serial.
He received the Monohar Singh Smriti Award from the National School Of Drama for his
contribution to theatre (2005). He has written 5 plays including Ape/esba. At present, he is
the Director of Seagull and a member of Indian Council for Cultural Relations Advisory
Committee.

B EST ACTRESS : Ferozo Beg u m
Feroza Begum was born in 1964 at Diphu, a small hill station ofAssam. After
her graduation from Cotton College, she completed an MA in Assamese
Literature from Guwahati University, the place where she resides.
.
.
.
She has worked on translations ofAssamese articles, and currently works as
a school teacher. She leads a parallel life as an actor, for which she has held a
lifelong interest. She draws increasing recognition in this field, having received numerous
state awards. She has acted in over forty plays nationally such as: Yatm, Apeks/Ja, Asbar Ka
[fie [)1’21. Shale/mm": Baz'ndei: Gbasiram Kotowal. Ranga Nadir Pm: Kecba Pitalar Sas,

.llup glstamg and Rafa Abe. Feroza has acted in TV productions in Assamese and Hindi. She
now works with children and has directed children's plays. She remans active in regional
socio-cultural activities.
In 1995. she joined the Seagull Group headed by Baharul Islam, acting in various national
festivals with this group.

r

.; DangarGokhini2Maromi

lndranath: Shahjahan

Jamaluddin: Sunil

