NUMBERS IN THE DARK I
March 8 SRl RAM CENTRE- 4: 30 PM

Produced by: TH E COMPANY THEATRE (MUMBAI)

NOMINEES

Duration : 75 Minutes

BEST DIRECTOR; Atul Kumor

DIRECTOR NOTES

Fascism is not an unheard of word these days. nor is it a concept with an
epitaph. to be read about in history textbooks. It's around us. its acrid stench
present even on shiny sunny days. not letting us forget for a second that it
could confront us soon.

\
\

Atul Ru mar has headed The Company Theatre (TCT) since 1995. He trained in Visual theatre
with Philipe Genty in France. in Kathakali with Kudamaloor Karunakaran Nair in Kerala. He
also trained in Kalerippayattu for 5 years. Atul has worked as an actor with numerous
directors in lndia and abroad. He has directed many theatre productions that have toured
internationally to festivals and forums. TCT currently conducts national and international
theatre workshops. forums, seminars. and conferences, all focusing on issues for theatre.
TCT is also set to launch an International Residency for Theatre Research and Performance
in the near future.

History no longer has the certitude that we were raised to believe in No more
does history as we remember it jump out of mouldV pages of memorV begging us to question
it. Where to begin? There are too many centuries packed111 a queue, the end of whichis
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR(MALE) : Namit Dus
nowhere in sight. We have hoarded too much. The notion of history, of memory. precludes
Namit began as a classical singer and found his way to the stage acting in
falsehood. precludes forgetting. Not much is gained from remembering. We want to forget.
school
and college. Since then he has worked on the Mumbai stage with
not remember. but we keep slipping into the same crevices of history. So let us try forgetting.
directors like Atul l\'umar. lmogen Butler-Cole. Nadir Khan, (lhandan Roy
How to do that? Should we? We don't know. We will simply weave stories and seek our identity
Sanyal and Yuki lillias. He recently finished the play President is Coming at
through .anbers In The Dar/e .
the Writer's Block Festival in Mumbai. Playing a myriad roles in deverse plays
SYN 0 PS l S
and theatre forms, Namit has shown an amazing repertory of techniques and
Numbers In The Dar/e deals with the concept of a young Indian adult torn between the a rigour that he brings to each role he undertakes.

present of the 21st century and the weight of 5000 years of history. A vein is to a leaf what an BEST LIGHTING DESIGN: Su jay S11 p I e
individual is to a collective. The play is an exploration of the most pressing questions of our
Sujay is an upcoming actor/dilectot who has been 1101king with The
Company ।heatie for the last 5 yeais. He has acted in plays like limes.
Noises ()[j’ and The (X1111 Artist and co-directed the play Smell with ;\tul
Kumar for the Writers' Block Festival 2004. He conducts theatre workshops
for school and college students all over India. Sujay is 11on a permanent
The direction of the play was stimulated by characters in Harold Pinter's Mounlain
member of The (Zompany Theatre and is working on the Youth section of
Language. which echo of 111arginalisation in our times. Pinter's Nobel Acceptance Speech EVAM-the international Residency for Theatre Research 81 Performance being set tip in
strikes a chord, reﬂecting the moral policing and authoritarian procedures that the Maharashtra.
contemporary world is subject to. Fragmentation, ltalo Calvino's mirror, sees characters
endure the struggle for a cohesive whole.
time relating to identity and collective memory. It seeks the realm of individual truth shaped
by our collective memory and a loss of identity, being unable to rely on documentation
media. or even history. to tell us. The question confronts us: which truth is trustworthy? And,
whose truth?

What is authentic identity? ls there one at all? ()r are we just numbers in the dark?
Source Material:

Harold Pinter: .llotmtain Language and Nobel Acceptance Speech
halo (lalvino: "The Mirror-The 'l'arget"."World Memory”, ”Solidarity". "Black Sheep".

