COTTON 56, POLYESTER 84
March 8 KAMANI AUDITORIUM - 7:30 PM

Produced by :

Arpana

ABO UT AR PANA

Duration :

Act One: 65 minutes, Act Two : 55 minutes

Arpana, based in Mumbai, was founded in 1985 by a group of theatre professionals
committed to presenting contemporary theatre to discerning audiences.

DIRECTOR NOTES
Some years ago I was exploring a theatre project that I felt would allow us to
explore the world of the working class in M u m bai . This was the period when
the ugly head of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) had reared its head

Over the last twenty years Arpana has staged nineteen productions in Mumbai, and
nationally. Arpana has been a regular participant at the Prithvi International and National
Festivals. Arpana’s work is characterised by contemporary and original texts by Indian and
international playwrights(in translation), strong performances, minimalist staging, and

in working class Mumbai, tempting people with a golden future, and at long innovative use of music and design. This combination has allowed us to perform comfortably
last, freedom from toil. Many workers accepted the golden handshake and in the most sophisticated theatre venues, or in completely improvised non-traditional
soon we heard stories of broken dreams and families. But for most of us, the spaces.
working class had become invisible. No-one wanted to talk about them in 'our part of the city' . We continued the tradition of a repertory company with a core strength of 20 to 25 actors,
Many of us were disturbed by this, and more so because none of it was being reﬂected in our designers, technicians. After a hiatus, Arpana is back with Cotton 56, P0tyester84.
theatre. Arpana was at its peak at that time, and I felt strongly we could use our position to
bring working class issues into mainstream theatre.

D | RECT0 R
I have been watching Ramu's explorations of history through theatre with admiration. When Sunil Shanbag uses sound and light as critical elements in all his productions. Often a piece
the mill lands issue 'hotted up', I heard he was involved in meeting mill workers and activists. I of music, or a fragment of sound, sparks off the key idea in a production, and in Cotton 56.
felt this was a chance. Mu mbai is a working class city, even today, and one whose cosmopolitan Polyester 84, it was the street sounds of Girangaon that helped create the design of the play.
culture is strongly inﬂuenced by the legacy of the mill workers. The mill workers of Girangaon SYN 0 PS|S

brought with them rich local cultures from their home towns and villages. These diverse
cultures coalesced into a unique form that has been a strong influence on Mumbai’s culture.

The saga of Mumbai, Girangaon, traces the growth of the modern city through it various

The average Mumbaikar has had no opportunity to engage with this history. The mill worker
remains a two dimensional object. We hoped our play would contribute to changing this limited
perception. For the mill worker community, particularly the younger generation, we hoped our
subjective telling of their history would provoke new ideas, new perceptions about their own
identity and situation. Their battle for survival against the powerful forces ranged against them
seems doomed. but the play could help reclaim space for the mill worker in the minds of
people. Who knows. perhaps shared history could prove to be a last desperate weapon.

An effervescent community spawning a popular culture still evident in the modern
metropolis, life revolved around work in the cotton mills, and living in crowded 'chawls'
crammed full of workers from impoverished villages. The density, chaos and oppressive
nature of this living enticed workers to the freedom of the streets. This in turn created a

phases of development from an industrial centre based on a township of cotton textile mills.

vibrant and virulent culture, in spite of poor wages and conditions, that is reflected in the
artistic renaissance of the 403 and 505. Modernisation, and the attendant struggles for

workers of Girangaon, set up the present battleground for the city's future, mills replaced by

The script/text arrived after months of research which involved meeting innumerable mill

malls, and chimneys by glass towers, the old laying siege to the new This is a celebration of

workers. their families. mill land activists, union leaders, attending meetings of committees

Mumbai I

set up to consider mill lands. presentations by activists before the courts, heritage committee
meetings. and so on. Actors also spent time talking to workers, and observing meetings with
mill workers, and at the labour court.
From the outset we were determined that the play should reach out to working class
audiences. Financial support from the Indian Foundation of the Arts has allowed us to
perform for workers and trade unions in Mumbai, Aurangabad, Beed, Nagpur, and
(Ihandrapu r.

