TU
March 9 SRI RAM CENTRE - 4:30 PM

Produced by :

Aasakto (Pune)

Language:

Marathi

Duration :

First Act: 55 minutes, Second Act: 60 minutes, Interval : 10 minutes

DIRECTOR NOTES
’

,स्म

In Maharshtra, not much is known about Rumi in Marathi. My first
encounter with his words manifested when Satee, the playwright of Tu. gave
me the translated poems of Rumi to read. She wanted to write something
spiritually relevant and around the same time she came to Rumi's verses.
which resonated for her.

SYN 0 PS | S
A story of The Man. The Woman , The King, The Fakir and The Storyteller unfolding through
fifty-two poems. A meditation on love, the characters traverse each other's stories as they
carry us through the past, present and future. The boundaries of time and space blur.
memoirs and reﬂections carrying us on a journey through the narrative zones of virtual time
and space.

Being in lo2'e (1 WI) [01 re. one/(”gets true [01 re.
Being 222 love with Self (meforgels true love.

The lovers, Man and Woman are smothered by the intensity of their love. They part on
separate journeys. one through the secular world and the other through the internal
Iabyrinths of the mind. Each seeks completion for the other. All realise that they have strayed
The words were with us. Too abstract. But too striking. I wanted to do something with them, but from the true love they seek. She finds herself lost in love. The king opens his arms to pain.
certainly not a poetry reading session. I did not want to do a disservice to Rumi's unique. mystic
Each finds love by letting go of a vision of happiness .
imagery; neither would I shadow the words by theatrical experimentation. And later. while being
with the words constantly. the characters. locations, and situations evolved. Satee had a story to N 0M l N E ES
tell . There were characters. and situations to play with. Thus began the process. ()ver a period of
around 4 months. we arrived at the play we have today. The play unfolds in two acts in the form B EST D I RECTO R - M0 H IT TAKALKAR
of a somewhat abstract series of events. Rumi's words have taken the place of dialogues. We Mohit Takalkar has been working as a Director in Marathi experimental theatre for the last 8
attempted to create transcendant images inspired by Ru mi‘s words and channelled through us. years and has directed an extensive number of plays. He has also worked as an editor.
assistant director and screenwriter for feature films such as the acclaimed Dermi. He edited
ABOUT AASAKTA

and directed a number of short films including 21'८2८३/'22'0'८2.९'/2/८2न which featured in festivals in
Aasakta. an experimental theatre group from Pune, has emerged as a leading exponent in
Germany, the UK, Holland and India.
Pune's theatre scene. Since inception in 2005. the group has produced several Marathi
productions. Fresh talent, innovative and exclusive production values, precision in Mohit Takalkar has received multiple awards for contributions to experimental theatre. Most
technique. contemporary aesthetics and unique, contemporary content have been the recently he received the Zee Gaurav Award for Fridhe Madhe Thevlela Prem and Kala (iaurav
attributes of each Aasakta production. Aasakta began the journey as a small conglomerate of
college students aspiring to do theatre of their own choice. Participating in one-act play
competitions was an integral part of this journey. Winning several prizes, and re-cycling the
prize money to produce new plays built the organisation up. However, talented. young,
energetic and dedicated team members have been the core strength of the group.

Puraskar, both for Best Experimental Director in 2006. He received the Amrish Puri Award

for contribution to experimental stage in 2005, the Ma. Ta. (Maltams/Jlm 'I’I'mes) Award for
Best Experimental Play for (Jujyas‘lqya Suttil, 2004 and the Maharashtra State Award for
Best Play and Best direction for 1221'22/2', and Nanep/Je/e.

T11 was selected for 9th Bharat Ranga Mahotsav 2007, New Delhi and Satellite Theatre Festival
2007
, Kolkata. He has also recently collected Zee (iaurav Awards for acting and film editing.
Aasakta has won several awards and prizes at state level competitions throughout the 5 year
journey.

