TU

BEST ORIGINAL SCRIPT: Sutee

BEST STAGE DESIGN : Mo h it To (0 । 1111 1

The playwright of In has more than 13 yeaars theatre experience. She has Mohit Takalkar has received multiple awards for contributions to experimental theatre.
written. directed and acted in many Marathi plays that include PMS/971a.
Palasala [’aana Pam/.7. and Dulzkar She has written a novel Maitreerz BEST LIGHTING DESIGN : Pradeep Vaidyu
A writer/director. theatre trainer. composer of music. and lighting designer.
(Friend) हैं and short stories for many weekly and fortnightly magazines. She
Pradeep has worked for 20 institutions in around 1000 shows. in different
scripted the national award winning short film Gz'rm’. and has written many
roles. IIe composed music for the TV serial Charm/{m Pradeep was
multimedia CI) roms for children, scripted and directed educational
instrumental in designing a unique educational TV show Lad/mi [)abmiz‘c/Jz'
documentaries. such as Growing up with Mural/21', and the biography, S’zmanda
for li-TV Marathi. He is currently involved in all Aasakta productions as lighting
BEST ACTRESS Rad hI k0 Apte
designer. and has won many accolades in lighting design at state level.
,. An actor by profession Radhika has been involved in theatre since her
BEST SOUND DESIGN : Mohit Takalkar
college days. She has acted111 a feature film and many plays. She has also
. worked in commercials. She has won accolades for her roles at various state Moh it Takalkar has received multiple awards for contributions to experimental theatre.
ﬂ
competitions.
CAST &CREDITS
र्द्धवैदृट्ट
The मेंaki r:Nachiket I’urnapatre
An editor by profession.l\\‘achiket has actedin several theatre productions which
include Sag/m: Mitmdu'qy. la. [’00)11८1111८1111. and Rampmbm. He has won
many accolades at state competitions.

B EST SU P P0 RTI N G A(TO R(MALE): AsIII5h Melita
A Mechanical E ngineer by profession Ashish has been involved111 theatre
for about 4 years. He has acted111 a one-act play, a story presentation and one
full length play. Ashish has also had experience in stage-managing a variety
of plays, and art-di rected two short films, ’Iyaac‘bz' (josbta and Gz'rm'.

The King: Nilesh I’hal
Nilesh, a software engineer, has been into Marathi theatre since his school days.
,

I

-दृ ' I
B EST CII 0 RE0G RAP IIY: Moh it To ka | ku r
M oh i t Takal kar h as received multiple awards for contributions to experimental theatre.

BEST COSTUME DESIGN: Kulyuni Kulkurni
A costume designer and make—up artist by profession, Kalyani has been
associated with theatre for the last 5 years. Kalyani has been costume
designer and make-up artist for all Aasakta productions, and many other
Marathi plays. She has also carried out this role for ’W productions and
feature films, such as Restaurant by Sachin Kundalkar and Valu by Umesh
Kulkarn i .

He has actedin 25 oneact plays andofull length plays.

