The \Voman : Radhika Apte
The Lover: Ashish Mehta
The Story Teller: ()nkar Goyardhan
A professional actor. ()nkar has been into theatre since his college days. He has
also acted in feature film and some TV productions. He has won many prizes at
inter college and state competitions as an actor.

The Traveller: Sachin Deshmukh
A commerce student. Sachin has been property manager for all Aasakta

productions. Sachin has also been assistant art-director for Sachin l\'undalkar's
feature film Restaurant
The Bar Dancer/The Queen's Maid: l\'artiki l\'hadkikar
A chartered accountant by profession. l\'artiki became associated with theatre
through I'll. Kartiki also looks after the accounts oansakta.

The Bar Tender: Varun Naryekar
As writer. director and actor Varun has written many one-act plays and a full
length play. He recently wrote and directed Choutba Arjzm. a Marathi play

The Bar Dancer/The Queen's Maid: llarshada l)atar

produced by Aasakta.

The Traveller: SachinJoshi

The Bar Dancer/The Queen: Bhakti l 'padhye
An accounting professional. Bhakti has acted in several Marathi plays such as
Samatol, il/Iz'tm. l’egayega sari and Tu.

A software engineer. Sachin has been associated with theatre for 4' years. He has
directed three one act plays and acted in a one act play.

The Bar Dancer/The Queen's Maid: Neha Shitole
The Travel ler : Sarang Sathye
An actor/di rector, Sarang has been on the Marathi stage for five years, and is
associated with theatre groups Aasakta, Samanvay, Maharashtra Cultural Centre

and Grips Theatre. He acted in Nita], a feature film by Sumitra Bhave and Sunil
Su kth an kar.
The Police Officer/The Painter: Nachiket Dewasthale
Nachiket has been associated with Marathi theatre since his college days. 1 le has
performed roles as an actor in many Marathi plays.
The Traveller: Kapil Kulkarni
A hotel management graduate, Kapil has been into theatre since 2000. He has
performed the role of stage manager, production manager and actor. Kapil has
been involved in productions for Aasakta plays and (irips theatre.

An Economics graduate. Neha has been passionate about theatre since her
college days. She is associated with theatre groups, Aasakta and Samanyay in
Pu ne.
The Bar Dancer/The Queen's Maid: (iandhali l)eshnmkh
A commerce student. (landhali has acted in iiiter—college-one-act play
competitions. She is also costume manager for many Aasakta productions.

The Traveller: Anupama
An anthropology student, Anupama has acted in one act plays and full length
plays for the Progressive Dramatic Association , Aasakta. and l ldgar.

