BALI AU R SHAMBH U

CAST &CREDITS
(A

Singer: Kay Kay Menon

Bali: Kurnud Mishra

Kay Kay is a known theatre and film artiste singing for the first time. He has worked in theatre

Kumud has worked with most of the theatre directors in Mumbai.

productions since 1992. His feature film career started with Bhopal Express. His much
acclaimed work was in the film Sar/em:

Choreographer: Phulawa Kharnkar
A professional dancer running a dance school, Phulawa has worked on shows in and around
Sudhir Pandey is a senior theatre veteran who has been associated with the India, and has been awarded the prestigious award, Chattrapati Puraskar.
Light Design and Execution: Kavi and Pawan
reputed theatre company, IP’I‘A.

Shambhu: Sudhir Pandey

Kavi and Pawan have both have been associated with theatre for 2 -3 years.
Shubhankar: Gopal ’I'iwari

Sound Execution : Yogendra Sigh Rajput

Gopal 'I'iwari, National School of Drama graduate is a common face in the Hindi A professional dancer.
theatre industry, He has featured in TV serials and feature films, and worked Stage Manager: Kshiprajain

with people such as Satish Kaushik.
Kshiprajain has been closely associated with Prithvi theatre since 1998.

Gautam: Lalit Sathe
Costume Designer: Nupur Guha
(
A promising young talent from a completely different background performing Nupur Guha has being working in the Ad-films industry since 2000, with U’I‘V and later with
for the first time on stage.
Ravi Udyawar Films.
Stills: Meenal Aggrawal
’I‘italee: DivyaMohan

Press and Publicity: Kajal Ads

Divya Mohan has being working with Star Plus channel Zoom, a marketing Publicity Designer: Zoya Chaudhary

student on stage for the first time.
Writer/Director: Manav Kaul
Producer: ’I'ushar Raut.

Jhilmil: SadiyaSiddique
’Iushar Raut started off as an actor, later moving on to become a producer. He has produced 3
Sadiya Siddique has being working in TV serials and feature films. She has been critically acclaimed plays for theatre. He has being working as an executive producer with
in the industry for almost 15 years.
Ravi Udyawar Films, an Ad—film production house. He was production designer for Prithvi

Theatre for its National and International Theatre Festivals since 1994
Music Director: Kedar Sarosh

Kedar was a co—music director for the much acclaimed film Iqbal directed by Nagesh

Kukunoor. He has worked in many shows in India and overseas.
Keyboard programming: Ratnesh Bhagat
Lyrics : Vijay Maurya

Vijay Maurya, a theatre actor, has been associated with theatre since 1993. He has acted in TV
serials and feature films.

