SELECTION COMMITTEE
VE N KAT SWAM l NATHAV

l) R . JAl I) EV TAN EJA

Educationist and theatre critic. Dr Taneja has published twenty-five books
on Hindi/Indian Theatre. numerous research papers and articles. He has
written regular theatre columns in prestigious newspapers and 'weeklies'.
He is a visiting faculty member for the National School of Drama and actor
training course at the Sri Ram Centre. He is a current member of advisory.
executive and selection committees of Sahitya kala Parishad. the screening
committee of Bharat Rang Mahotsav. the high power jury of Kalidas Samman (M. P. Govt) and
His work as translator of texts is prolific. He edited the Tamil section of Sahitya Akademi's
He was awarded and
of member of the Advisory Board of the (Ihaman Lal Memorial Awards.
Enqyclopaedia of India Literature. and conceptualised a commentary and selection
by Sahitya Kala Parishad and
Samman
Parishad
Parishad.
Academy.
Hindi
the
by
honoured
songs/poems from old Tamil classics for 6 of the 12 episodes of Yamini Krishnamoorthi's
Delhi Natya Sangh‘s World Theatre Day Award.
dance serial. Natya Marthi. Doordarshan. New Delhi.
Sri Swaminathan was conferred the 2003 lyal Award for Life Time Achievement by The Literary
was AN [le S l l ARM A
Garden and the Centre for South Asian Studies of the University of Toronto. Canada. He
y.
Pondicherr
of
Kalam
by
2006
for
award
Sirpikal
" L Anuia has twenty years experience as a writer: for .llarg. The India
also conferred with the Naveena Nataka
Autumn/e. and Indian Liv/Hess ll'eehend; reviewer for Marg Publications.
Bombay; senior editor. Business (Join/inter. Director of Technical and
D EE PA GAH LOT
Assistant Editors. and Art Director for Sterling Newspapers. Bombay. She
journalist, critic, columnist, editor, author and screenwriter, Deepa writes
initiated the pilot issue. the publishing. and the editing for. the inaugural
extensively on cinema, theatre. the arts, women‘s issues for several
issue of Gentleman. She is assistant director of the annual Bombay
publications and websites.
drama production. Annia maintains a keen interest in fine and
School
International
She has worked with an NGO in the field of tribal development, directed and performing arts. animal welfare and environ mental concerns.

Writing since 1961. Mr Swaminathan is a native of Odayaloor. in 'I'hanjavur
district. Tamil Nadu. His writing has appeared in Hindustan Times.
Economic Times. Indian Express. Patriot. Pioneer Lin/e. thought. Indian
Literature. Sangeet Nata/e. Theatre India. He has thirty-one published
हैं volumes addressing film. folk and contemporary theatre. literature. music.
;
-. .
art. and changing social values.

written short documentaries and radio features, and ran a print features

Film
syndicate Plus Newsban/e for six years. She edited a cinema journal for the National

Development Corporation, and currently edits a magazine called Images for Kodak.
She won the National Award for Best Film Criticism in 1998. Her work has appeared in
anthologies on women's studies and cinema, the latest being Bollywood: Popular Indian
Cinema; Behind the Scenes of Hindi Cinema A Visual journey through the Heart of
Bollywood, andjanani. Her book on Prithvi Theatre, The Prithviwallahs (co-authored with
Shashi Kapoor) was published recently.

