JURYI
SHYAM BE N EGAL

In 1974 he was cast as an actor by Basu Chatterjee in Rajm'gandba, which led to many other
Shyarn Benegal is an important figure in the new wave of Indian directors, such roles in middle-class comedies.
and is a prolific director. Benegal began as a copywriter at a large ad agency in Amol turned from actor to director with the Marathi film, Aakriet. He proved his capability as
Bombay, graduating to scripting and directing advertising shorts and a director through his movie Pabelz', which was India's official entry for Best Foreign Film at

३७ commercials. He remained there for over a decade. Benegal shot to fame the 2006 Oscar Awards.
withAn/eur (1975) .

ANITA RATNAM
The success that New India Cinema enjoyed in the 70s and early 808 can largely be attributed

Anita belongs to a new generation of artistes who enrich India's dance
to Shyam Benegal's artistic yet commercially viable films. Tapping fresh talent mainly from
culture with an eclectic world view. Accomplished in Bharatnatyam,
the FTII and NSD. The 19805 saw him turn to TV where he directed serials like Yatm (1986)
Mohiniattam and Kathakali, she holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Dance
for the Indian Railways, and one of the biggest projects undertaken on Indian television,
. ’i. from Kalakshetra
Bharat e/e Kboj (1988) a serial based on Nehru‘s Discovery oflndz'a.
३ क्या Anita has toured the length and breadth of India. She has also toured abroad
His films are sensitive to the role of women in Indian societies, and are gaining international
to the Far East, Europe and the USA, performing individually, and conducting workshops,
acclaim. He was awarded the Padma Shri (1976) and the Padma Bhushan (1991) .
organising lectures, demonstrations, and participating in seminars and conferences. Anita is

JOY MICHAEL
1

a successful writer and her work, Natya Brahman, on the cornparitive drama traditions of
Joy Michael is a senior outstanding theatre personality. Originally trained in

India and Greece is considered essential reading by many dance students. Nm’tbalei, a

theatre at The London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, The Royal ground-breaking directory of Indian dance, and moving with technology, exists on the
internet at www.narthaki.com. Ratnam's interests have also taken her into television and
enormous contribution to theatre in Delhi. Founder of Yatrik Theatre, she cinema. She has played the lead role in The Final Curtain, an absorbing drama directed by
has been director of this company for over forty years, acting, directing and Chetan Shah and Dbanusbkodz’. She co-founded and directs The Other Festival, India's only
annual contemporary arts festival at Chennai.
producing over 2 50 plays.

Academy of Music and The British Drama League, she has made an

She has lectured on, and directed, Indian plays in India and abroad. She has written and directed MAH ESH E LKU N CHWAR
scripts for television and radio. She has been Vice Chair of the National Progressive Schools
Mahesh Elkunchwar is a distinguished Marathi playwright who expresses a
Conference and Governor of numerous schools in Delhi and regional centres. Joy was principle
serious attitude to the theatre and to the human condition in contemporary
of St Thomas School for many years, and continues to work with young students in schools.
society. He began his creative career with a collection of one-act plays:
Joy Michael has received many awards for her contribution to the growth, development and
Sultan. Holz' and Yatanagbar. His full-length play, Garbo. was staged in
appreciation of theatre, including the Rockefeller Award in New York, the Delhi Natya Sangh
Marathi, Hindi and English. He has written over half a dozen plays and has
Award, and the Sah itya Kala Parishad and Raj a Rom mohan National Education Award.

acted in the film Alerosb. He scripted [1012' and Party. His plays have also been translated into
Garhwali, Tamil, Kan nad and French.

AMO L PALEKAR
, '
Amol Palekar was born into a Maharshtrian Brahmin family in Bombay, is a He has been recipient of the Akhil Bharatiya Natya Parishad Award (1993-1994), the
well known actor of the '703, and later a director of notable Indian movies.
He attended the Sir J. J. School of Art. He commenced with the Marathi
experimental stage with Satyadev Dubey, and later started his own group,
Aniket, (1972). He introduced theatre of the absurd in Maharashtra, and a

street theatre-inspired practice of performing plays in the round.

Maharashtra Gaurav Award (1990), the Nandikar Award, (1989) , the Sangeet Natak Akaderni
Award (1989), and the Homi Bhabha Fellowship (1 976- 1978) .

