\“

u..

1'“ in»: M. _८ ८ g;

‘

Q‘i-—~\‘\“‘5ii\

५-

_

‘

, r म eds

है

हैं
g
l
:

I. .»

A: ,

. u.

w

क्या ’डार्क 7

३ “ ३ Eekm’a‘h‘yzi Bal Gangadhar trilak
(By T. Madhava Rao)

Among the Brahrnans of Maharashtra there are two major classes.
Deshastha and the others Konkanastha or Chitpavan.

Some are called

The word Chitpavan has come down to

us from the time of Sage Parashuram.

The story is that once Parashuram While on his world tour arrived at a certain place.
“To his surprise there were no Brahrnans in that region. Without the Brahrnans it was difficult
for him to perform any yagna or sacrifice. To get over this misery the sage wanted to create
‘
Brahrnans with the help of his tapascharya (austerity).

At the place where he landed on the shores of the Arabian Sea he saw seven dead
bodies scattered. He collected all of them and set fire to them according to rites. The bodies
were burnt to ashes. Out of the sacrificial ashes he created seven Brahrnans. Since then
these Brahrnans were called ’Chitpavans' (Chita means funeral pyre and pavan means purified

ones).

It is said that the origin of these Chitpavans is attributed to these seven Brahrnans.

Bal Gangadhar Tilak was a personality of this class.

He was
Tilak dedicated himself to the cause of the nation even in his young days,
boyhood days
by nature stubborn and had great faith and persistence in his behaviour. In his
Ti'ak had a great mind to read the Sanskrit classic Kadambari by Banabhatta. This book was
to the little boy, his
with his father and he would not part with it. To avoid giving the book
and said that
father gave him a most complicated mathematical problem to be solved by him,
problem at a stretch for
if he succeeded he would get the book. Immediately Ti lak sat at the
and gave him the book.
8 to 10 hours and solved the sum. His father was surprised

ion alone and for this
Ti lak thought that salvation of our motherland rested on educat

of the missionary institutions. Once he
he wanted to establish private schools on the model
of the educated classes that they are
wrote - ”There is no greater folly than the assumption
are part and parcel of the Whole - the
separate from the masses. They must realise that they
he
Indian masses.

of the people.”
Their own salvation depended on the salvation

Hence

and political freedom. This resulted in
decided to dedicate his life to the cause of education
on the let January 1880. Very soon this
the founding of the New English School in Poona
school made good headway.

