a
This gave Tilak and his colleagues more encouragement and in the year 1884 founded

college for higher studies.

The foundation for this college was laid by the then Governor of

him as Fergusson
Bombay, Sir James Fergusson, and since then the college was named after

College.

These two institutions soon became temples of learning and scholarship.
While Tilak was Professor of Mathematics in the Fergusson College he taught the

made
students permutations and combinations and gave illustrations from everyday life and

in the
the subject very interesting. After the college was over on his way home he walked
s,
company of the students and discussed with them many subjects and made lively argument
Tilak was of the opinion that nothing could be achieved without discipline and
To rouse in
strenuous efforts. He was the first to mobilise public opinion for national ends.
A
the minds" of the people the idea of self confidence he started the Marathi paper Kesari.
powerful writer as he was his writings were effective and touched the hearts of the peOpIe.
When a man speaks or writes with sincerity they always have effect. He also taught that

people who are not proud of their past could have no future.
Religious thoughts and devotion may be possible in solitude yet demonstration and
eclat are essential to awaken the masses, he said. To achieve this he organised Shivaji festivals
and Ganesh festivals to be celebrated on a large scale throughout Maharashtra.

In the political arena Tilak was greatly respected by other leaders and the public as
well. His subtle and forceful arguments evoked reSponse from his friends. People of his
times looked for his guidance on many problems that confronted the country. In the year
his four fold
1906 during the Indian National Congress session at Calcutta Tilak announced
programme viz., Education, Swadeshi, Boycott, and Swaraj. It was for the first time that the
word ’swaraj‘ was used in the Congress by no less a personality than Dadabhai Naoroji the
President of the session.

Rabindranath Tagore once offered Tilak of any help he could render in the freedom
struggle. Tilak replied, 'I would be sorry if you follow the same path which I am pursuing at
this moment. You be true to yourself and through your efforts serve humanity in your own
way". This pr0posal of Tilak gave Tagore the highest honour that he could receive from mg

countrymen. Tilak wanted that individuals with special talents should utilise their full sc/ope
in their own directions.

Tilak was a scholar and thinker. He was a vedantin and his work ‘Gita Rahasya' - the
commentary on the Gita, will for ever remain a monument to his scholarship.

It is well known

that Tilak took the task of writing the ’Gita Rahasya‘ during his 6 years imprisonment in

Mandalay jail.

With an idea to make this work more comprehensive he indented for reference

books and the same were granted.

Supply of paper was restricted and the sheets were

numbered on both the sides before it was given to Tilak.

pencil of poor quality was given.

Supply of ink was refused

Suffering and sacrifice are modes of perfection.

Onl

in sue:

conditions he wrote and finished this masterpiece in a record time of five months i e f
I ' rom 2nd
November 1910 to 30th March 1911.

