Maharashtrian Educational Er Cultural Association
N E W

D E L H l

0F ()U R ASSOCIATION

'

The Maharashtrian Educational Er Cultural Association started its life in Delhi more
than a quarter century ago. It was then a loose Association of a few Maharashtrian families
hailing from South. It is now a much larger body consisting of more than a hundred families.
It has its own Constitution and every year an Annual General Body Meeting is held to elect
an Executive Committee to conduct the business for the year.
Very few people are aware that a large group of Marathi speaking community is
existing in South India. When the great Maharatha king, Shivaji expanded his empire to the

South, he made Tanjavur his head quarters in the heart of Tamil Nadu.

Thus many Maha-

rashtrians settled there and many others took to the Marathi language for employment and
so forth. Even after the decline of the Maharatta empire, the Marathi speaking population

stuck to their new homeland and settled in South lndia permanently.

They gradually shifted

to other Districts and neighbouring States as well, to earn their livelihood.
The peculiarity of these Marathi speaking settlers in South India is that they have

retained their mother tongue as well as their distinct culture.

Many of the Maharashtrian

customs, as for instance, at marriage and religious ceremonies, can easily be distinguished.
Even in dressing many of the conservative ladies still wear the ’kasota'.
they have developed a distinct dialect of their own.

As to the language,

There is a well equipped library on

Marathi I iterature at Tanjavur where scholars from the motherland go for study and research.
The Delhi Association has staged three full length plays in Marathi as spoken by the
Settlers, thanks to the initiative taken by Shri M. K. Rao who wrote, directed and produced
the plays. In the international year of the child, A Variety Pregramme enacted chiefly by the
children was produced under the direction of Shri M. K. Bee. The two ballets choreographed

by Miss Indira Rao were highly commended.
it is our desire to invite the Maharashtrians and others in the capital to our cultural

functions to enable them to appreciate and understand us.

TH E EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

