‘ ‘ M rs. R00 PA’ ’
(by M. K. RAO)

Synopsis :
Sekhar is a yourIg widower doing a very lucrative business in steel at New Delhi and

having offices at various other places in India.

His late wife Roopa was a colourful lady and

is talked of such by the household staff-Nag, the lady-in-waiting; Ram the private Secretary;
Madhav, the Chief cook and vittal, the chief Servant. Sekhar, while on tour at Madras, meets

accidentally a young and poor orphan girl Sona who was deserted by her uncle on false promises.

On hearing her pathetic story and convinced by her high moral standards, Sekhar marries
her and duly informs his household staff at New Delhi.

The personal Staff, surprised at the sudden marriage of their boss, soon discover that

the new lady is an illiterate from a remote village and knows nothing of the high society life.
The helpless and confused Sona could not communicate with her husband for a week as he

remained busy with his official work. The staff take advantage of the situation and to grind
their own axes, persuade the simple Sona to ape the highly sophisticated late Roopa. Sona
falls into their trap and dresses just like Roopa for a. grand party to be hosted by Sekhar. He

gets a shock at the sighl of his wife but Sona could not understand.

Believing that she is a misfit in the new Society, Sona runs away from the house,
After a long search, Sekhar gets her back home and enquires why she imitated his late wife
Roopa. She explains that she did so because she was made to believe that whatever Roopa
did, pleased him. Shocked at her statement, Sekhar reveals to her that Roopa was intrirsically

moral
of a bad and immoral character and that he married Sona just because of her good and
character, irresprective of her poor status.

He tells her that his servants were at the root of the

mouths shut.
unfortunate episode and how they were paid sumptously by Room to keep their
Enraged at his servants behaviour, Sekhar dismisses all of them and finally sets the house
ablaze to wise of the memories and the evil Spirit of Room.

Directorate Note :
I felt proud and elated when the executive committee and other members of the Assoundertake
ciation asked me to write yet another play and direct it. At first, I felt diffident to
But my enthusiasm prevailed.
the great responsibility because of my age and weak eyesight.
P . T. O .

