in this creative process. The vibrations of the two aspects involved in the term ’sarira bhava’ necessarily create the
expression through sound, —the ’vachika’ aspect in the actor’s expression. Sabda and Asobda (Sound and Silence),
Movement and Static Pose (Sthanaka and Chari) are the possibilities which interact with each other to create the
whole concept of Space — Time Continuum ;in the process of acting. This is the point at which the element of rhythm,
including non-rhythrn involved thereir‘splays a role in the mechanics of acting in so far as it interprets movement by
manifesting its realm into it. Dance and Music are not to be construed as two independent disciplines in theatre.
Dance connotes movement, which need not always be locomotive. it can suggest locomotion. Similarly music which
tends to create rhythm can also suggest the subtleties of rhythm without being rhythmic.

The interaction at several points, — between space and time, space and actor, actor and time, — all this is helpful
for the actor to get his whole spirit regenerated into a theatrical situation. in the process of evolution there takes place
a close dialogue between the actor and the character, which is not merely physical and tangible, but mental,
intellectual and above all esoteric and mysterious. While traversing through space and time, the actor transforms into
character and this is the speciﬁc area where we have to evolve the basic theory of acting. in this process of
transformation the actor maintains his physical autonomy only to the extent that he exercises his control over the
technique; which positively concerns the form in contradistinction with the content. if the actor physically and
technically succeeds and at the same time the character fails, the purpose of the theatre gets defeated. There
occurs a stalemate and a tie because the form contradicts the content. if the form can justify the content, the actor
cannot succeeded without taking care of the character.
This same position can be thought of in its logical analysis only to prove that the actor represents the form and
the character, the content of a situation, a state of being or ’avastha’. To imitate or more precisely to recreate such
a situation, the actor has to pass through an elaborate and intense process of transformation. The mental and
physical preparation of the actor tends to make him visit the character many a time in a mechanical way, within the
frame work of his own creative world. The actor while enacting a known theme or a shared myth and especially
when he is within a precise and deﬁned form, he might be able to mould the character in its minute details and share
it with the spectators, taking them through the realms of his creative and critical faculties. In the case of a character
in a contemporary situation, the actor learns it afresh and analyses it to the extent his ethos permits him and shares
his experience with the audience.

The visit of the actor into the character results in an intense integration of the form and content of a situation. The
actor through a rnentdl exercise of creativity makes an organic rhythmic combination of the physical and mental
situation and organises his reactions accordingly. The mechanics of the physical acting of the actor,—for example
a ’kalasha’ (a punctuation of feeling through dance and rhythm) or albody pose or a whirling of the body—is
integrated with the mental state of the character through a series of subtle ritualistic acts and beliefs, which help the
actor to land in a wonder world of the character, which will be certainly different from the actor’s world of reality with
his life concepts, routine behaviour etc. But the actor tries to sort out from his own social experience certain features
of the feelings of the character and indulges in them only to the extent of make believe. The question of how to
believe and behave assumes important here. This is made possible by the great magic of Art, wherein the process
of transformation of actor to character and back is involved. This is not exactly alienation; we can call it
’pakarnattam’, which exactly means transformation. The most effective way of putting it is by quoting a line from the
opening passage of the Sanscrit Play ’Mattavilasam’. While describing the cosmic dancer Shiva, it is stated as Nah
Prekshakascha Swayam”. He, the dancer or the actor is himself the audience. This suggests alienation; but not total

alienation. it is transformation or ’Pakarnattam’ which suggests constant interaction. An actor Krishnan Nair while
interacting with the character Nala, can produce only 'Krishna-Nala’. The double term is signiﬁcant here in this
interpretation of a character and the theory of transformation postulates the half-actor and the half~character spiri t

which is sustained throughout a performance. The transformation can be from a neutral state to a character or from
one character to , another. it can be even in a suitable way, a change-over from one bhava to another bhava. Fo‘i‘
crossing from one bhava to another, you can either go from bhava to bhava or come to a neutral point before

going to the next bhava.

