iN R ET R O SPECT
With the shifting of the cap'tal in thw s ecand decade of
this century
quite a large number of Bengalees in Govt. service moved
over to Delhi
The residential quarters in Lodi colony also came Up in
due course.

A

handful of zealous and enterprising Bengalees residing in the
Colony .
mooted the idea of establishing a forum to meet their literary, social
and
cultural appetite. Their concerted and dedicated efforts finally culminated
in the establishment of Lodi Road Bengalee Club in 1945. The Club has
since grown from strength to strength and was registered with the registrar

of co-operative societies in the year 1957.
Ever scince its inception, the club has been continuously striving to

meet the aspirations of the Bengalee Community in general and its members in particular, through its multifarious activities Our club library has a
stock of nearly 5000 books catering to all tastes and occupies a place
of pride among
- Rahindra

the Bengalee libraries of South Delhi; celebrations like

jayanti,

Vijava-Sammelani,

Saraswati

Puja, dramatic perfor-

mances during Durga Puja etc. are some of our regular cultural activities
facilities for indoor games and annual competitions are arranged to provide
recreational facilities to our members; as part of our social servicc.;Pro~
grammes, medical and nursing appliances are loaned out to members,
and a school of Rabindra sangeet under the noted teacher Shri Sudhir
Chanda has been recently started to fulfil a long standing demand.

It is our constant endeavour to extend our field of activities and
submerge in the social and cultural mainsteam of this metropolitan clty.
To this end we have affiliated ourselves to the Bengal Association and
readily respond to programmes organised by them.

Our

Club participate

in the one-Act Play Competition organised by New Delhi Kali Bari and the

fo|k song and patriotic song cornpitition organised by Bengal Association.

Of late, we are organising 'Open Master Pair Tournament' in Contract
Bridge, and have instituted a

T ro p h v ' in

memory

of

Late

rolling.
Shri S, R.

"S. R

Ghosh Dastidar Memorial

Ghosh Dastidar, a noted player

himself, and an active member of this club. We have also applied for
affi'iarion to Delhi Bridge Association and Climbers 8 Explorers Club

Club is indeed a
Social Service, which is the prime objective of the
of our past and present
challenging one, Although we can be justly proud
y
achievements, much work remains to be done. In this, we are greatl

handicaped due to
constrain ts.

acute shortage of space,

apart from financial

