D | R ECTO R
Hema Singh

A well known actor of Indian theatre, Hema Singh is a graduate of
NSD in Integrated course (1979—1982 Acting + Design). She worked with
NSD Repertory Company for about 10 years. She has done major roles in
various styles of theatre with eminent National and International directors
such as Richard Shechner, Ebrahirn Alkazi, Habeeb Tanveer, Fritz Benevitz,

K.N. Panikkar, B.V. Karanth, K. V. Subbanna, Ratan Thiyam, B.M. Shah,
Mohan Mahrishi, M.K. Raina, Amal Allana, Anuradha Kapoor and DR.
Ankur.
She was awarded with prestigious “Manohar S ingh Smriti Award” by
NSD for her contribution to theatre in 2008 .
She was awarded with 'Indian Television Academy Award' for Best
Actress (in a negative role), 'Colours Golden Petal Award' for Most Tez Tarar
Personality' and the greatest 'Sazish' award by AB . P. News Channel, for her
portrayal of 'Imarti Devi' in a TV channel (Colours) serial 'KAIRI'.
She has also acted in tele ﬁlms and serials with directors like Shyarn
Benegal and M. S. Sathyu.
In the ﬁeld of Direction she has done innovative work in the ﬁeld of
Parsi Theatre and Presentation ofPoetry on stage. Among has directed Poetry
presentation remarkable ones are NSD Repertory Company's 'Hum Kaun
The, Kaya Ho Gay Hain, Aur Kaya Honge Abhi” based on National Poet
Maithileesharan Gupta’s poems and 'Vinash Ke Viruddh' based on Modern
Hindi Poet Raghuvir Sahay's poems, with SRC Repertory Company.
Has assisted famous Parsi Style actor late Master Fida Hussain
‘Narsi’ at NSD for about 6-7 years. Was invited by Royal Welsh college of
Music & Drama U.K. (Wales, Cardiss) to do a Parsi Style work in English
with British Actors. Has done Fellowship from Ministry of HRD on Parsi
Theatre, titled 'Parsi Theatre — Possibilities'. Has done atleast 15 productions
in Parsi style with NSD, SRC, M.P. Drama School and College students.
Has directed plays of other genre such as, ‘Of Mice and Men’,
'Gadar', 'HotAir', 'Jasma Odhan' and 'Chainpur Ki Dastan'.
Has designed costumes for NSD Reperotry plays such as 'Chaya
Shakuntala' (Director : K.N. Panikkar), ‘Marco Millions’ (Director :
Rodeney Marriot), A Servant of Two Masters (Director late B.M. Shah, in
Comedia Del Arte Style) and Khoobsurat Bala (In Parsi Style) with M.P.
Drama School.
Has written analytical articles on theatre, has translated plays and
was Theatre Critic of'JANSATTA' a Hindi newspaper.
Has travelled abroad i.e. England, Australia, Poland, Germany,
Wales, Sri Lanka to perform and conduct workshops on theatre.
Presently, she is an Associate Professor of Acting at NSD, and is
active with her work as an actor, writer, director & teacher.

