LIGHT DESIGN
As ho k 80 g or B h a g at
Ashok Sagar Bhagat, a graduate of the National School of Drama is a respected stage and light
designer. He has worked for established directors from India and abroad and managed the stage and
technical aspects ofthe Festivals of India. At present he is Associate Professor at the National School
of Drama, New Delhi, Visiting Professor at the Indian Theatre Institute, Chandigarh, and the
Bhartendu Natya Academy, Lucknow. A Sangeet Natak Akademi Awardee for excellence in light
design, Ashok Sagar was also the Art Director for ﬁlms like Bandit Queen, Jayaganga and Hazaaro
Khawishen Aisi .

Haripriya Sing h
An architect by profession, Haripriya has also studied photography from the renowned

photographer Mr. O.P. Sharrna, she has also done a short term course on Indian Art and
Culture at the National Museum Institute, she has studied Vastu Shastra. She has been
learning German language at the Goethe institute, Delhi for almost 2 years. Has been

actiVely involved in theatre ever since she was a child. Has acted in many TV serials such as
Bhanwar and Haadsa, as a child actor, has also worked under the direction of Mr. M.S.
Sathyu and Mr. Shyarn Benegal. Has acted in plays during school and has directed a play

during college, has also acted in Parsi style productions 'Khubsoorat Bala;' and 'Mashra-ki—
hoor'.
^

She has participated in children theatre workshops done by Umang,
Children theatre

workshop at N I DA, Sydeny and Theatre in education workshop held by NSD.
She has also
done adult theatre workshops such as the Acting workshop held
by NSD at Shirnla, One act
play workshop by Mike Daisey held at the American center.
Has done the 'Funny Bones'

workshop directed by the renowned German director 'Michael
Moritz' at Max Mueller
Bhavan. She has a keen interest in writing and has translated plays and
articles from English
to Hindi. Has doen set design previously for a play called 'Life
is sweet at Kumansenu'.
l

N 9 l 83 Cl 13 S

लू,

