Melange

C lTY EXP RES S

पृ A 5

The NI'W Irv! m E rprrrau , licririahim, Wednesday, 15 Jul/ 2013

३ "८खखाड७७७७।--,
PLAY: PUPPET FA N TA SK H0 ORA Y!
FROM SOUTH KOREA
Troupe: Manetsangsahwa
Lnnguage/ duration: No language/60 minutes
Director: Bong—suk Kim
Target age group:
6 years and above
Supported by: an0 Centre and Arts Council Korea
Note on the troupe: Manetsangsahwa was founded in 1097.
Manetrefers tomime and sangsahwa refers to puppet shows,
using traditional techniques to create a
story to portray a range ofemotions.
The performances use puppets made of
natural, organic materials and fuse pup«
petry, traditional dance, music and
mime.

AHA! is back
with some
wilful puppets
This year, Ranga Shankara is celebrating the magic of
puppetry to tell stories from around the world. The
plays promise to mesmerise and educate children

Synopsis: The production is a collection of varied but interconnected scenes,
each represented by a differentpuppet.
Various techniques are used to traverse

a range of emotions that capture the
promise of hope which Koreaas nation
shares with the world at large.

JP Nagar: AHA! is a n expression nfwonrler, excitementand
fulﬁlment that has no language barriers and that is what Ranga Shankam’s
children 's theatre programme is all 11 bout. Showcasing national and international
productions ofrepute, lhefestival isfruluringplaysfrom Germany, Korea, Australia
and Switzerland as wellas Iocaljnlkforms oflndian performanceart. Thefestival has

PLAY: JAMES AUR EK GIANTPEACH
FR0 M MU MBA I
Troupe: Ran gbaal,
Language/ duration: English and Hindi/ 100 minutes with
interval
Director: Cmgan Dev Riar
Target age group: 8 years and above
About the troupe: Rangbaaz is a

Mumbai based theatre troupe. lts
founding members are lmad Rasheed
and Pawan Uttarn who have been part
ofthe Mumbai theatre scene since 2010.
Rangbaaz’s aim is to make Hindi theatre
grow and ﬂourish by bringing heartwarming stories from all over the world
and the work ofnew writers.
opsis: James HenryTrotters parents have been eaten by a Rhinoceros.
so now he lives with his two repulsive
aunts. One hotday, something peculiar
happens and an enormous peach grows in their garden. Soon
James and the Giant peach are rolling away from his horrible
aunts towards a most marvellous place.
Note onthe director: Gagav Dev Riar has been actively involved in theatre asan actor, writer and director sinm2001
and has many sumful productions to his credit. He has

Cast: Kyu—mi K0, Bong-seok Kim

been enjoyedsofarby over 1,75,000 children. 7111'syear. the ‘AHAI‘Annual International

workedwith the likmof Pt. SatyadevDuhey. Sunil Shanbag.

Date: July 15

Thealie Festival/hr Children' celebrates the. grandeur ofpuppehy and masksfmm India
and across lire world. lheseforviLs oftheuhe are mated infolk nar'rulives.

Atul Kumar, Om Katare, Poorva Naresh, 'l‘rishla Patel.
among! others.
Cast: ShivaniTanksale, Pawan Uttam, Dlu'nv lobumi, Sukant Goel, Kiyomi Mehta. Avantika Ganguly, Meher Mistry,
Daniel DtSoum. Neha Singb, Ravi Goswami, Mohit क्या.
Anand Hegde and HarpreetSingh
DaterJuly r 8
Day: Sunday
lime: 3:30 pm and 7:30 pm

Day: Wednu day
Time: 7:30 pm

PLAY: PLASTIC GARDENS
FROM ITALY

PLAY: PINOCCHIO, THEPUPPET
BOY FROM NEW DELHI

Troupe:Cantieri
'I'eatrali Koreja
Language/ duration: N0 language/ 55 minuts

Director: hanoesco Ungaro
Target age group: 6 years and
above v
Supportedby: Istituto Italiano di
Cultura ' Mumbai
About the troupe: Koreja's artisti-

ca] project is'made upofworks. actions and stories (littleor bigger)

coming from far away and above all,
from the deepneed ofbuilding up a
“residence for theatre and culture”
open to innovations.
Synopsis: PIaslic Gardensaim to
send youto magical worlds full ofaliens. samurais and fairies.
Cast: Giovanni De Monte, Alessandra Crooco

Time: 7:30 pm

PLAY: DRA UPADI KURA VANCHI
FROM KA NCHI PU RAM
Troupe: KamiklnrttuYoung
Profesionals Company
/ duration: Tamil] 90 min“[3

है t.

Director: PerungatturP. Rajagopal
Target age group: 8 years and above

About thetroupe: The Kattaiklmmr
Young Profmsionalsश्या! cons‘ﬁts

ofstudents and graduate ofthe Kamildruttu Guruhrlam andwas established

अक्रि९

V.

VI,

in 2010. The company provides aplatform to showcase traditional aswell as
innovative repertoire to स्था to
rural and when audiences.
Synopsis: Draupadi Kuravanchitells

the tale of Krishna‘s andDraupadi‘s dark quest to
subvert the plans ofthe 1०० Kauram to eliminate
their cousins, the Pandavas. Ittenure: the rit-

.’

PLAY: DINOSAUR!

FROM NEW DELHI

Troupe: Kuch Kuch Puppet Theatre
Language/duration: English/ 60 minutes
Director: M 0ham med Sha meem Huss ain An sa ri
Target age group: 8 years and abouAbout the troupe: Kuch Kuch Puppet Theatre
was started in 2009 by Mohammed Shameem.
The troupe has also done workshops andpro»
ductions in schools, for NGOs and for various
communities. The troupe uses different types of
puppets like rod puppets, gloves puppet, string
puppet, shadow puppets and masks.
Synopsis: Pinocchio is the tale about the wooden
rnarionette who wants to become a real boy. Thein~
quisitive and naughty puppet keeps getting into mischief, and is unable to lie about it, for his nose grows
long every time he does. Aﬁerjoining the circus andget»
ting swallowed by a shark, will Pinocchio ever tell the
truth and get his wish granted by the blue fairy?
Note on the director: Mollammcd Shamcem
H ussain Ansari's journey into the puppet
world started at the age of 15, under the
guidance of Kapil Dev, director of Samar»
pan who mentored him with the basics
१९५
of puppetry, starting from the movements associated with rod puppets to
" .\
the basic sculpturing of puppets.
‘ *
Scriptwriter: Sheel
३
Medium: puppets, shadow pup
pets, masks, actors
Cast: Mohammed Shameern.
Avinash Kumar. Vivek Kurnar, Nitu Kumuri, Sheel.
Pawan Wughmare
Date: July 17
d

७_

troupemamth‘a Puppet ArtsTrust
language/ duration: No language/

6० minutes
Director: Anurupa Roy
or: Shravan Hcggodu
Target age group: 5 years and above

About the troupe: The Katkatba Puppet Arts Trust wasformed in 1998. The
group tours festivals, school and colleg-

witbtheir own sacnﬁcml'
‘ deaths
on the battleﬁdd in ahorriﬁc,
fraternal. futurewar. The play
showsus the ambivalenceofthe

iconic Dra
ईब1धज्ञाद्या

Note on the director: Anurupa Roy is a puppeteer, puppet
designer and director.

Conoept and story: Shravan Heggodu
Cast: Slu'nvannHeggodu. Raghavendra, Anurupa Roy
Date: July 18
Day: Saturday
e: 3:30 pmand 7:30 pm

क्या

क्योंdeathon the battleﬁeld.
Note on the director:
Artisticdirector. actor,

es.
Synopsis: Dinosaur! is a play about a
baby dinosaur who gets separated from
his mother and has many adventureson
his journeyto ﬁnd a family. This show uses human size pup~
pets, shadows andcot—outs to recrmte the age of the dinosaur.

' a caring. 8'5‘

piciom mothercarrying her
baby on her 1८१९९:८८११९1 ,

rungattur P. Rajagopalfounded the Katmikkuttu Gurukulam in 2002. At the age org, he
became a rot‘asional actorin hisfather’s company. क्या

pal believe: thatKatmikkuttu can arewardm protagon, if
its future practitioners are well-named and \vell-edumted.
Date: July 19
Day: Monday
Time: 3:30 pm and 7:30 pm

