group of six characters which, initially conceived in the mind of an
author, demands the right to act out the as yet unwritten drama
which is implicit in their characters.

The action arises when a man is surprised by his step-daughter
in a place where he should’nt have been, doing something . that .he

certainly should’nt have been doing with her.

It is from this acrion

that the life of the characters stems. The Father, Mother, Son‘ and
three step-children have been given their parts—their drama ls fixed;

for them there is only one course of action, only one reality.
To us, the audience, the characters are slowly revealed; all

choice of action has been pared away from them and the relentless
force of the drama leaves them only one direction in which to
t r av e l .

The characters thus sharply focussed, stand out from the blurred mass of actors and seem to us to have greater reality than any
one of them. Each actor has the freedom to act a part or to change
his personality according to the company he keeps or to the dictates
of time. We are quite justiﬁed in asking any of them 'हुँ Who are

you?”
Now we begin to understand the distortion suffered by a play
when the illusion created by one actor replaces the character as
imagined by the author. Now too we see the more profound mean' ing of this play. There are many human beings who have been
denied a part in any signiﬁcant drama—they are unrealised characters and from the rich matrix of their being fate has chosen nothing
to give a dramatic meaning to. Even those chosen to enact a heroic
character may suffer dislllusion as the relentless passage of time
forces them to abandon one role, attempt another and fail again to
susrain the part.

In SIX CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR we
see a
man who has attempted the part of husband, then
father, then
patron of his wife's second family. In each he has failed
to achieve
the high standerd he has set himself and then a diabol
ical turn of
events destroys what is left of his self-esteem and he
is forced to
enter the one-way tunnel leading to the horrifying
events with
which this drama ends. His wife, son and step-daughter
have similarly to abandon successive illusions about themselves
and thus

stripped to the bone they are consumed by a fierce
desire to act
out the drama
.

At last there is no choice, and it is with the heroism
of Greek

tragedy that they play their allotted parts to the end.

