ONE WHO LOOKS WITH KINDNESS
TH E HISTORICAL AS HOKA/PR | YADA RS H |
Uttar Priyadarshi’s protagonist is Ashoka; also known as
Priyadarshi or ‘One Who Looks With Kindness.’ The third
emperor of the Maurya dynasty (324-187 BC), Ashoka is a
remarkable figure in the history of India. His predecessors,
his grandfather Chandragupta Maurya (c324 - c300 BC) and
father Bindusara (c300 - c272 BC), gained a wide reputation
as ruthless military leaders whose campaigns succeeded in
the conquest of much Of North India. But it was under
Ashoka (c272 - c232 BC) that the empire reached its height,
with the Mauryas ruling almost the entire Indian
subcontinent while maintaining a significant degree of
political unity. This accomplishment has been practically
. unmatched in the history of kingdoms and governments in
I n d i a.
But it is not only his military triumphs that make Ashoka's
life one Of compelling interest. It is recorded in some of his
famous edicts - which Ashoka/Priyadarshi had inscribed on
pillars, rocks, and cave walls throughout his empire, and
which are our major sources for reliable information about

him - that he had a dramatic change of heart after defeating
the neighbouring people of Kalinqa. These edicts indicate
that Ashoka felt great remorse over his past evil deeds of
violent armed conflict, and embraced an ethic promoting
peace, tolerance, and the welfare of all living beings under

his sovereignty. Ashoka's main concern, as expressed in his
edicts, became the propagation of dharma, a concept which
has many connotations, such as truth, morality,
righteousness, and familial and societal responsibility. In
Buddhism, an Indian-born religion which was gradually on
the rise in Ashoka's time, dharma has the specific meaning
of the Buddha's teaching, and the frequent use of the term in
the edicts has led many to conclude that Ashoka converted
into being not just a Buddhist, but a very pious one at that.

There is much debate among scholars about whether or not
Ashoka himself actually converted to Buddhism, and
whether or not his dharma should be understood strictly in
Buddhist terms. There is also disagreement over whether or
not Ashoka used the edicts for mere political expediency.
However one comes to understand the life of
Ashoka/Priyadarshi, the varied and often ambiguous nature
Of his deeds and edicts reveals to us a most fascinating
human figure of complex, if not conflicting, motivations and

‘ concerns.
Adapted from an essay by Bradley S Clough, Assistant
Professor of Asian Studies and Religion, Bard College. For
the complete text, visit the Asia Society website at
www.as i a soc .Org

