CHORUS REPERTORY
'
'
THEATRE

Production Style and Aesthetic
Ratan Thiyam's intense and holistic production style - all आँ

members are trained in dance, acting,» martial arts, stage
Ratan Thiyarn established Chorus Repertory Theatre in 1976
in his native Manipur, a hill-state in north-eastern lndia.
Bordered by Bhutan, Bangladesh and Burma, Manipur is one
of the world's most isolated and unfamiliar areas, rich in
centuries-old traditions of dance, theatre, music, martial
arts, and literature. It has also been under siege for decades
- rife with internal struggles between the dominant Meitei '
community and small tribes, between state-run military
forces and insurgent factions, and above all, its alienation
from mainstream India. Within this environment, and with
severely limited financial resources, Chorus Repertory
Theatre was founded and makes its work. 'Our plays are
completely entwined with our history, mythical and real,’
says Thiyam, 'and a continuous search fora better human
condition, for peace.’
Located on the outskirts of lmphal, Manipur's capital city,
Chorus Repertory Theatre's two-acre campus has been
slowly built (and six times rebuilt after disastrous
, rnonsoons) to accommodate a self-sufficient way of life, with
housing and working quarters for the company. It is now an
important regional and national centre for contemporary
theatre. Last year, its 25th anniversary season, the company
dedicated its first permanent theatre, a BOO-seat
auditorium designed by Thiyarn with space for set
construction and storage.

Thiyam's 1986 Chakravyuha, performed nearly 100 times
around the globe, thrust the company into the global
spotlight. With the acclaimed Uttar Priyadarshi, Thiyarn
continues his examination of the human condition,
expanding his explorations of war and power to embrace the
search for enlightenment, reconciliation and peace. An
important presence on the international scene, Chorus
Repertory Theatre has travelled throughout India, and
appeared at festivals including Edinburgh (First Fringe
Award 1987), Glasgow, Dublin, Avignon, Perth, Adelaide,
Rome, Cervantino, Mitsui, and T'oga. Chorus Repertory
Theatre has also performed in London and Paris, and toured
countries including Greece, the former USSR, Holland, Cuba,
Brazil, Thailand, Sri Lanka, and New Zealand.

craft and design‘ - embraces traditional Manipuri forms as
well as other methods, developed over time to support
CRT's aesthetic approach. Emphasis on vocal and breath
techniques, and in physical stamina and control, provide the
means to accomplish impressive vocal and movement feats.
Thiyam's works are tightly choreographed; his actors must
physically push the limits of character. ‘I have always found
human expression more convincing when it is physically
portrayed, when there is a body rhythm.’
Language in Thiyam's plays goes beyond the simple conveyance
of text. While written in Manipuri, CRT has evolved its own
thematically-based language of theatre. Words are as important
for their aural power as for their actual meaning. ‘I think the
language has to be human. For instance, the cacophony that I've
created in the torture scene in Uttar Priyadarshi- they don't
speak in any language; they don't speak Manipuri, they don't
speak English, they don't speak Hindi, it is just sound - there is
no language, yet you understand what they are saying.’
The playing space is magnified through complex and changing
use of movement, sound, colour and light. The aural
. environments created for Thiyam's productions are an
encompassing mix of text (sung, spoken, chanted, spat out),
music, stamping feet, whispers. Like a film score, sound is used
to foreshadow, comment on and accelerate action. It reinforces
intent and clarifies meaning. The set for Uttar Priyadarshi
consists of a few simple black-painted wall panels and platforms,
but colour saturates its costumes, which are meticulously
crafted. Lighting, designed and operated by Thiyarn in
performance, is used very specifically to define performance
spaces, dramatic action and even rhythm. ‘I do not use
permanent backgrounds for my plays. I create a different one
onstage for each scene, so its seems more spectacular. Red, the
colour of blood, is the most important colour in my works now.
Light, costumes are used to aid the actor in his attempt at
interpretation through his traditional training and talent. F'or
Uttar Priyadarshil needed to create Hell on earth. I have not
seen Hell except in paintings in temple walls. They are
conventional descriptions. i am living at the start of the twentyfirst century so I have to interpret Hell in those terms.’

