gy and put"
‘high-society’ pleasures but none of the singular ener
osed to be
posiveness necessary ‘to make good’ and so supp
le brothers cheat,
characteristic of the ideal bourgeoisie. The Pita
‘cheating’, as
admittedly and brazenly so, in business. But
n to succeed in
commonly understood is neither a pre-conditio
orical trait. In
modern business, nor a speciﬁcally bourgeois hist
of insecurity.
fact, it is in itself a cause and effect, simultaneously,
alley of
This insecurity leads, not infrequently, to a blind
especially when
acute existential ‘angst’ and moral degradation,

it nor the
one has neither the economic strength to manage
way through
social strength and provocation to hack one’s
bourtowards a genuine and workable solution. For, the petit
ng to the
geoisie, by deﬁnition, is neither rich enough to belo
y nor
real leisure classes who can buggy their anxiety with mone
sity for
deprived enough, or far-sighted enough, to feel the neces
sie
a socially united action for a better world. The petit bourgeoi
of
is divided against itself. Every man is on his own. This way
mity,
life causes an existential ‘angst’ that, in its terrible extre

often leads to the practice of deceit and eruptions of perverse
violence, even with respect to one’s own “near and dear ones”—
all in the frantic quest for a ‘better life’.
That is why, in the last analysis, any production of the
play, if insightful, must inspire a true understanding of the predicament of the “vultures” instead of mere hatred for them. By
understanding one does not mean sympathy, as commonly understood, even for “good” characters like Rajaninath or Rama.

For, they typify two important tendencies of the same petit
bourgeoisie mentality —the philosophy of angry inaction and
the philosophy of resigned, though sullen, submissiveness, respectively.

In other words, what one must seek to present to the
audience is not so much a family of savages as an analysis of
their savagery, and the reasons for their behaviour, leading ultimately, and by implication, to an analysis of the values of a

society that pushes them towards such a behaviour. A dispassionate understanding and portrayal even, (and perhaps especially) of such sordid behaviour of men and women as is
10

