*

O u r Say

है

ए

Something we must say, right at
this moment of our maiden introduction to you all. It was a very august
beginning in the year 1960 when we
३ have started experimenting on different sectors of applied art and after
three years of effort, study and practice we offered ourselves to the stage
lights at Calcutta Theatres.

छा I अ n क्रज्ञ _ लगा
गामक क्तशादै स्का न्चजाब्र जादृकृ-स्वास्मन्दाप्तक्लिं स्वास्थ
(कांव क़थाडा बनि | दाकांच्चा लौका (घन ददृटब्रदब्बज्जि नष्ठिरु ।

cram“! कांद्गनाणिटऱठ क़थत्मा fluvial, क़थदृबा we?
त्मात्मा बा आनन ।

णायांस्मब्र नवाब जोबन (यआंटन

New दीक्षा-स्थथाटन क्लाड metal प्पटग (यादा-

दृस्थाटन न्नश्चि Evita गगटक्ल attain? टेनटक्श थारु
शाब era—ca दृठा गसांलौर्थ । of? लौटर्थ न्तबांटज्ञज्ञ

Recognition from the Govt. of
West Bengal and the subsequent
sanction of grant by the Central
Ministry of Education have well
afﬁrmed our position "in‘the cultural
galaxy of progressive units.

सांद्रण णामटन्मव्र श्नबांहुँकू उस्का क्तटव्र त्माचा, we निब,
वियांकांछब गोद------. "सिलु स्थबिदृव्र नबठद्व रु'ष्टिव्र

We have longed for such an occasion to present our performances over
here at the capital of our country and
for that it would rather be an unpurdonable lapse if we fail to extend our (
heart-felt gratitude to the members
of the renowned Bengali Club (Kash-

का ﬁfe? मलाटक़, शाक्य णाखबिक़ निधि (elm?

mere gate) for their invitation, unﬂinching co-operation and sinceremost endeavour but for which it would
not have been possible for us to
appear before the footlights of this
theatre.
Before we conclude, once again we
would like to convey our cordial
greetings and warm welcome to you
all who have graced , this occasion to
evening.

नूनंर्खाड्डेकू नवादैटन्चब्व elem? त्माचा-णागांटफ्त Ermदृत्रांव्र दृभोबिक़ बच्छा द्दगथाटमदै स्का थैछाबिख ।
we»? जानहिं "टचकाबौ क्वान" ( कांचौबौ (दृष्टि )

उब क्तटब

"आख्या "आध णामद्रुख दृथद्रुबछि

णाश्रमांटश्र्व was, क्याबांक्च णानांहै martian?
प्याखाबब्ब
निधि व्रर्निक़टक़ सांबा प्याकूछैमृठाटन्च नरु
त्याचिंठा कटज्ञटकृन
णागांदृप्तज्ञ. जाब उजि१जी we»? णानांहै mum
my

शावा वास्ता माठेटन्चदृव्र ध्वडि. झक प्याथबिमौग गयल्ल
दृबांदृबब
दृअंत्माब्र a था गुन

क्षटनट्रेकृनड्डे-प्यागौन्वगंटरुब्र ष्टाडि am
घानुहदस्का महृत्यात्रिछांव्र न्वदृबांछांब बिटब्र ।
दृबमैंद्रपिब

जागता हृव्रस्ता थान्चब्बस्ता बा प्याथमाटप्तब गाटदा, छवू an?
णाड'बददृ WWW?! ‘हाडिड्डेकू णाचरुगान कांव at?
णागादृल्ल त्मात्मा दृयांआंदृब । क्यूब वास्ता (थ
ारु बटन्न

जाना कटव्रक़द्वि थबिन्धँ णानक्लक्ताव्र बिस्मिटव्र बिटव्र
an?” णाथनांटश्र्व खुलि, ﬁfe e आडच्छा- l
श्वातांप्ल c बगकाबाटख-

Jai Hind—
हुँतेंठेहैंर्सि

