The Group
V r x
l

\

r

‘i

1

’‘

.
\ \ \.

.

Act-One, which came into existence in 1988, is a collage of theatre

activists. People from various professional backgrounds-painters, musicians,
actors, film-makers, writers etc. , who believe in theatre as a movement,

a process, an experiment, came under one umbrella to pursue theatre.
This unique blend is now working towards only one goal-” To provide the
necessary boost to this movement, and to be part of it, all the way”.

Act-One firmly believes that humility and sincerity coupled with a high
sense of professional responsibility and dedication makes theatre vital and
startlingly original.
We do not believe in merer attempting to dazzle our audience with
gimmicks, paradoxes and clever stylisation. We would rather work in a
straightforward, honest manner. We prefer to rely upon hard work in
producing a play, in getting the best from the actors, in achieving a high
level of dramatic performance.
Act-One has tried different themes, genres and styles. Yet all the
productions have one thing in common-they all deal with real situations
and view man as an integral part of society. All our productions ultimately
repose faith in humanity, faith in the ability of the people to create and
not destroy, faith in mankind to surpass barriers which divide.
“Hamare Daur Mein” is a street performance. It is an expression of the
belief that theatre is medium that can be effectively used to sensitise
society and to generate awareness about the social milieu.
“Marsia” highlights the conflict between tradition and modernity,
between raw emotions manifest in the primeval thirst for revenge and a
civilised outlook.
“Netua” depicts the plight of a person who is traditional entertainer,
who performs dressed as a woman.
.
“Ho/i” is a tragi-comedy which vividly reflects the claustrophobic
existence of a whole generation of young adults-a generation whose
academic pursuits have little relevance for their future.
For us theatre is a continuous process, an unending movement. We
believe stagnation puts an end to creativity.

