NATIONAL SCHOOL or DRAMA REPER'I'ORY COMPANY
National School of Drama Repertory was formed
in 196465 on an experimental basis by Shir E.
Alkazi in the beginning, it consisted of only four
actors, musicians and technicinas, mainly drawn

from graduates of the National School of Drama,
Delhi in 1964 late Shri Om Shivpuri led the
company and later in 1 977, Shri Manohar Singh

television of India. The Repertory tours
extensively all over India and has made several
successful trips ofCiermany, Poland, Britain, Nepal

and Mauritius.
The Repertory Paid a homage to Mohan Rakesh,
in 199293 on his twentieth death anniversary
through a major festival of his plays.

became the ﬁrst regular Chief of Repertory. When
Manohar Singh left the Repertory Company in

Ran Yatra, an exhibition, consisting of

1985, for a short period Ms. Uttara Baokar and
Ms. Surekha Sirkri looked after the functioning of
the Company. Later Shri I. N. Kaushal officiated
as the chief till 1988. From 1988 to 1994 Prof.

photographs, set models, costumes, properties
posters etc. of Repertory productions was

inaugurated in 1 991 on the occassion of the Silver
Jubilee Celebrations of the Company. It is a

Ram Gopal Bajaj was heading the company. From

permanent exhibitin designed by Shri Bansi Kaul.

1994 to 97 Shri Kaushal was again functioning
as acting Chief.

BusSiness Manager Vibha Das

Over the years the Repertory has produced a

Technical . Director

6.5. Marathe

variety of plays ranging from stylized musicls to
realistic contemporary works of Indian drama to
translations and adaptations of foreign languages
plays. Eminent directors of national and

Sound Technician

S. N. Das Gupta

international repute from within the country and
abroad have worked with the Company.

Music lncharge '
Om Prakash
Costumelncharge . Charanjeet Bhatia

workshop _Incharge Abdul‘Haqi'me
Box: Ofﬁce Incharge $.13. Sharma , ५ ३" g

- ३

- ' ३ ३ I ३३

मृ पिंटहांटाप्तष्टीदुश्यण
'Ramesh Athwai

Repertory has performed over hundred and
twenty plays by seventy playwrights and has

S._R. Yadav
नु

worked with fifty directors. Quite a few of the

Repertory” Chief ‘

actor of the company have emerged, over the
years, as celebrities in theatre, cinema and

Director NSD

12R. Bhatt

. *Su'resh Shanna

Prof. Ram Gopal 1944

During the Rehersa/

