Drama. He worked as Head of NSD until August

Under this project, he has just directed a version

1 986, when he resigned because of differences

of the Mahabharata which is currently touring

with the management.

northern India.

In his 30-year career as director, teacher, actor,

Besides translating Strindberg’s The Father and

designer and writer, Mohan Maharishi has created

jean Paul Sartre’ 5 Men Without Shadows, he has

several important works; notable amongst them

adapted Kaﬂca’s famous novel The Trial in Hindi,

are his productions of regional Indian playwrights

titled joseph Ka Muqqaddarna and Peter Shaffer's

like Adya Rangacharya, Badal Sircar, Girish

play Equus-titled E ’Tash in Hindi. He is the author

Karnad, Mohan Rakesh and Dr. Dharmavir Bharati.

of two original plays'Dr. Einstein and Natak Ke
Beech~a comedy.

jeanvPaul Sartre’s Men Without Shadows,

Anouilh’s Antigone, Bertolt Brecht’ s The Mohter,
George Bernard Shw’s Pygmalion, Durenmatt’s
The Visit, Moliere’s The Miser, and Kaﬂ<a’s The
Trial are some of his best known productions of

foreign play~wrights.
Mohan Maharishi has toured extensively all over
the world to see theatre and participate in

seminars and discussions as an Indian delegate.
He has personally met and had discussions with
world renowned theatre ﬁgures like actress
Helena Wigal, directors like Peter Brook, Peter
Stein, Karlos Khun, Eugino Barba, Satyajit Ray,
Taclashi Suzuki and playwright Heiner Muller.
Mohan Maharishi created history of sorts by

bringing to India and Indian play Audhayug, with
a foreign cast, from abroad. He repeated the feat
in 1 981 when he took a Punjabi play, Rani jindan,
to the United States and Canada.

Mohan Maharishi got the Sangeet Natak Akademi
award from his home state, Rajasthan in the year

1 991 . In 1992, he won the prestigious National
Award for his service to Indian theatre, an honour
conferred on him by the President of Indian an 3
February 1 993. Recently, he produced and
directed his ﬁrst experimental ﬁlm Ek Tha Raja.
Mohan Maharishi is currently directing a special
experimental project—Theatre Lab'for U.G.C.

Mohan Maharishi

