SYNOPSIS

Scene - l

responsible for the crirninnalization and
dehumanization of the dwellers of the city. The
traveller therefore borrows the body of an old

A traveller who is story teller, enters a strage city.

widow to interven and saves the cook. The

To his surprise, he ﬁnds no'one in the houses

problem is resolved to everyone's satisfaction
but only temporarily.

A Comedy in scenes

and streets. Hungry and tired to the bones he
looks for a shelter and considers himself fortunate
when he meets the King's cook on a street

Scene-3

crossing. The cook promises to help him but
suddenly realises that he the cook himself is in

The cook and his butcher friend continue to kill
innocent citizens to feed the evil king. Helpless

deep trouble. He has nothing to cook for the king
who is coronated just this evening. It is almost
mid night when he meets dead drunk Vikralak
who is carrying tow prostitutes to his den. Vikralak
the town butcher- ﬁrst refuses to even recognise
Pakannak ~ the kings cook but then relents and
gives him the keys of his shop where the cook

citizens are now desparate as the situation
worsens day by day. The king is passing stricter

ﬁnds nothing. He then in sheer desperation kills
the story teller.

orders to beat the population into total
submission. Curfew in imposed in the city and
the citizens ironically represented by the

prostitues, ﬁnd it hard to earn their living. They
naturally errupt in popular revoly. The traveller
watches it all comments on the events.
Scene 4

Scene -2

It is midnight and the cook and the butcher are

The king likes the meal and orders Pakannak to

out with their knife. The two guards are also out

cook the same kind of meat everyday.

to do their duty. They, like everyone else, know

as who the criminal is- because of the king's fear
The city guards are happy that the night of
corronations has passed without any trouble
when they ﬁnd the traveller’s Angavastra and
bundle of books on the street crossing. They catch

the nervous cook with butcher’s knife. Thecook
tries to save himself by telling them that he
borrowed the knife from the butcher. Just then
the butcher too arrives and reports that his knife
has been stolen last night from his shop.

The cook in trying to save himself gets intot

no one wants to even listen to them. Completely

frustrated by the ofﬁcial apathy the guards report
the matter to the Prime Minister directly who
seems to be ceased with the matter. After

meeting the guards, the Prime Minister quitely
decides to report the matter to the Chief Justice.
But he too is murdered while on way to the house

of chief justice. The Atma of the Story teller a
now ﬁnds a body the body of the Prime Minister
himself ~ to effectively intervene in the situation.

deeper trouble when he is unable to explain what
Scence-S

he really cooked on the night of the king’s
coronation.

Vikralak and Pakannak are seen forging the books

The traveller now an Atma - a soul without body

as always when one of the guards approaches

~ is present on the scen but invisible to all living
creatures. He is bound to his neither here nor

them. Pretending to be hungary, he pursuacles
the cook to take him to the King's kitcher where

there existence because his last rites have not

he naturally ﬁnds ample evidence to book the

been performed as no one knew about his death.
His soul can only ﬁnd deliverance or liberation
when the injustice perpetrated in the city is
corrected. He wants the king himself to be

actual criminal the king himself.
Armed with new evidence the Prime Minis
ter

who in reality is the soul of the Stroy Tel ler, easil
y
prosecutes the king.

brought to the book, for, he is ultimately
The play ends with a Bharat Vakya.

