ABOUT THE PLAY
The Dumb dancer is a powerful tragedy conceived with ingenuity and
executed with innovative techniques. It presents the story of a lady
psychiatrist who gets emotionally involved with a schizophrenic patient,
a dumb Kathakali dancer who is under the delusion that he is the epic hero
Bhima who, it is said, had avenged the humiliation of his beloved
Draupadi by killing Duryodhana and disgorging his intestines. The
psychiatrist takes more than a personal interest in him and her desire to

cure him at any cost develops into an obsession. She administers a daring
kind of shock therapy the enacting ofthe slaughter of Duryodhana in all
realistic details by the Dumb Dancer with disastrous consequences. In
trying to drag him out of the vortex of insanity, she gets dragged in and
becomes Bhima's Draupadi.

ABOUT THE PLAYWRIGHT
AsifCurrimbhoy is perhaps the most proliﬁc and popular modern Indian
playwrights in English. Though by profession a successful company
executive, drama has always been a passion with him. He has published
more than 3 0 plays in English. His themes are many and various. Though
most of his plays are inspired by the passing problems of the day, his
treatment of them is such that quite a number of his works reach out to a
level ofart, universal and lasting. A manipulation ofinteresting situations
and master of arresting dialogue, he has an uncanny sense of atmosphere
which perhaps is the main distinguishing feature of a Currirnbhoy play.
Some of his other well known plays are; Goa, Refugee, Sonar Bangla,
The Doldrummers , 0m and so on.

TRANSLATION
Surendra Sharma is a graduate from National School of Drama,
specializing in acting. Has been involved in acting, direction, translations
and adaptations from several years. Has adapted several well-known
novels and also staged them for his theatre group Rangsaptak. The well
recognized among them are Rangbhumi, Mala Aanchal, Boond Aur
Sarnudra, Nirmala. Has also acted in several television Serials, telefilms,

teleplays and feature films. Has been conferred with Sahitya Kala
Parishad's BestActorAward (1987).
.
.
' ‘1’
नटरम प्नत्तिष्ठठान
u. पुरा, a! L
3 .73 .-» l 0 " 9,0 l 2/

9

g

_ J3

_\_

\

\.

"हैं" WI र्णठिपँ ३४५४७। ८३०७०। QR: ३९३ wr

