NATIONAL SCHOOL OF DRAMA
The National School of Drama and Asian Theatre Institute was

about the basics of theatre. During summer vacations the School

established in 1959 by Sangeet Natak Academy. In 1975 it became
National School of Drama (NSD), an independent autonornbus

conducts several such workshops throughout the country.

organisation under Ministry of Culture, Government of India.

National School of Drama imparts both theoretical and practical
training in theatre. Students are selected through interviews and on

Through its Theatre-in-Education programme NSD targets to bridge
the gap between the formal education system and annual activities of
theatre held in the schools. National School of Drarna's Theatre-in-

the basis of practical workshops. To run a well made training

Education Company, Sanskar Rang Tali, not only performs plays for
children in schools but also conducts theatre workshops with

programme, apart from its own faculty of teachers, the School invites

children, teachers and parents.

distinguished teachers, theatre directors from within the country and

abroad. Cohesively experts and students go through various stages
of building a theatre production, besides, theoretical and praCtical

knowledge. National School of Drama has also accommodated
many foreign students from countries such as Mauritius, Nepal,
Bangladesh, Nigeria and South Korea.

National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964-65. Over
the years the Repertory has produced a variety of more than 120 _

plays ranging from stylized musicals to realistic contemporary works
of Indian drama to translations and adaptations bf foreign language
plays. Eminent directors of National and International repute from
within the country and abroad have worked with the company. The
Repertory tours extensively all over India and has also made several

NSD has a separate publication wing which regularty publishes
books on various aspects of Theatre Arts, Biographies, Scripts of
Major Plays, Theatre Criticism, besides bringing out half yearly
Journals on Theatre "RANG PRASANG" in Hindi and "THEATRE
INDIA" in English. NSD also organises a monthly programme
"SHRUTI“ in which eminent writers & poets are invited to recite their
literary work and to interact and share their experiences with invited
audiences.
~
'
Since 1998, NSD has been organising an annual National level
Theatre Festival christened Bharat Rang Mohatsava and in the year
2000-2001 , NSD has the proud privilege to have been designated as
the nodal agency to organise theatre events for the German Festival
in India by the Culture Department, Ministry of Tourism and Culture.

successful trips to Germany, Poland, Britain, Nepal, Mauritius and

China.

National School of Drama has a rnulti-dimensional identity. For the

NSD has an extension programme also. Under this programme NSD

past 42 years, NSD has been instrumental in providing a ’fair amount

दृ of theatre activities across the country.
organises theatre workshops, which aim to develop understanding

Join hands for Theatre for Education

