SA N S KAA R RAN G TO U
Sanskaar Rang Toli (TIE Co.) of National School of Drama was
established on October 16, 1989, and it is one of the important

runs the Sunday Club every year from August to January. It
culminates with the shows of plays created by the children

educational resource centres in the country. Toli consists of a group

themselves. This was earlier held on Saturdays.

of actor-teachers working with and performing for children on regular
Sunday Club II: On Sunday Club student‘s request to continue with
basis. The major focus of Toli is to perform creative, curricular and
Toli's creative theatre journey compelled us to give further extension
participatory plays in schools specially designed and prepared for
children of different age groups, to create awareness and encourage

to this programme as Sunday Club Part II. Various aspects of theatre
like acting, direction, designing etc. are introduced to the children in a

children to raise questions, make decisions and to adopt the
simplified and playful manner-through improvisational process. They
theatrical skills as an alternative. Toli has completed more than 600
also develop their skill to work on a structure of a play in a manner that
performances of 20 plays in Delhi and other parts of the country.
"they are aware of what they are doing. ”All this culminates into a play
These plays have been witnessed by more than 5 Iakh spectators,
at the end.
among whom are school children, college students, teachers,
parents and theatre lovers.

Workshops with Colleges & Organisations : Workshops for
colleges, parents, social organisations and children with special

Teacher's Workshops : Toli offers training workshops for teachers
to establish and utilise theatre "meaningfully" with their pupils. It also

needs are also Toli's important activities. Toli organises theatre
festivals and has undertaken extensive tours in collaboration with

offers skills, techniques for effective and enjoyable teaching/learning
activity in classroom situation. Toli has also conducted workshops

various departments and institutions such as Max Mueller Bhawan
(Delhi), Padatik (Kolkata), Department of Culture (UP), Voice Box

with NCERT on a pilot project based on “Theatre Movement at
(U.K.), Language Alive (U.K.), Sarnadhan (NGO, Delhi), Japan
Primary Level” in which teachers from various backgrounds
Foundation,

Bharat

Gyan

Vigyan

Sarniti,

Jawahar Navodya

participated. Apart from working with the teachers of Delhi schools,
Vidyalaya Sarniti, Bawana Women's College, Jesus and Mary
Toli has worked with teachers of Tripura, Maharashtra, Uttar
College, etc.
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal.
Tours & Festivals : During 1994-95, Toli toured with its plays and

Summer Theatre Workshops for Children : This regular annual
workshops to different States of the country and also participated in
feature offers a month-long intensive Summer Theatre Wokshop for
the International Theatre Festival in Warsaw (Poland).
Children which is held in May-June. Besides training in theatre and
allied arts, personality development and integration are important
aspects of this workshop. What began as a modest venture with one
centre, is now held at nine centres. During the past years, Toli
organised 72 theatre workshops in summer vacations. More than
5,000 children from 4,000 families participated in the month—long

Jashne Bachpan : Toli organised its first ever National Theatre

intensive workshops.

and social growth.

Sunday Club I : Sunday Club is an extension of the Summer

Bal Sangarn : With the start of new millennium, Toli has started a

Workshops, where more extensive work being done with children of
various age groups to create original plays through a process of
improvisational series. During this training the children jointly decide
a theme or a subject and work on it in a very creative process. Toli

new annual event "Bal Sangam“, a folk ensemble of various
traditional art forms being presented by children to acquaint them
with the rich and varied cultural heritage of the country and to
preserve and nurture it through participation of children.

Festival for Children, titled "Jashne Bachpan" from November 10-19,
1998, which is now a regular annual feature. The objective of the
festival is to focus the role of children theatre for

the integrated

growth of a child touching upon his psychological, mental, emotional

