PAT H E R DA दृ
educated
Sarat Chandra ChattOpadhaya does not require any introduction to the
public.

many.
His novels and short stories reflect the hopes and aspirations of

His

and Colour,
sage-like insight into the problems of social injustices those of Caste, Creed
and of morality
his sympathy for the womenfolk-their problems of love and marriage

have made him immortal as a novalist.
pen.
The present play “Pather Dabi” is a master piece from his mighty

s of
The non-cooperation movement in the twenties on the one hand, the activitie
Party of Bengal
the ‘Gadar’ Party abroad on the other, accentuated by the anarchist
“Pathar
were hovering the mind of novelist. This led to the publication of the novel
Dabi” in 1926.

men and
A novel with a purpose he wanted to establish that a group of young
land, were by
women of Bengal who dedicated this lives at the altar of their mother
liberation movement which
no means anarchists but they were essentially launching a
would culminate in a free India bringing happiness to all.

of awe and admiration
The Central ﬁgure of the play Sabyasachi is an object
by all and pitied by none.
to all. He is not a hero like Richard II to be despised

by
Rather, he is a hero of the ‘Rising Moon’ to be pitied

all and despised by

to see him once. The gallantry,
none. Everybody (may be his enemy even) wants
the imagination of the big generals
heroism, patriotism shown by the hero is beyond
thousand have been declared on
of the mighty British empire. A sum of rupees ten
chaff. As a leader of the liberation
his head, but he is too old a bird to be caught with
fervour for the fulﬁlment of the goal
movement he showed a great zeal and patriotic
for this liberation movement. He
i-e., liberation. Burma was selected as the base
well-knit organisation through blood
believed that liberation would come through
to weaken this movement by any
shed (if necessary). He did not allow any body
‘Bharati’ ‘Sumitra’ etc.. These weakmeans. So, we see the characters like ‘Apurba’
as a true hero of the novel who does
nesses are but natural, still ‘Sabyasachi’ emerges
should not Surrender. So, we see
not fall a victim to these weaknesses. A hero

his exit as a glorious one.

Ashim Kr. Mitra

