८…-

नटरंग तु.- जान

क्या" 13 {a पृ

Moliere’s Pen name of Jean
Baptiste Poquelin (1622-1673)
French playwright, and director.
Born in Paris, the son of an

upholsterer in the service of the king,

…।

Jean Baptiste Poquelin studied the
humanities at the Jesuit College de
Clermont and then. around 1640, went into
law. However, the idea of a bourgeois law
he
career was forsaken around 1642. when
the
by
d
directe
actors
encountered a group of

Bejart family. In 1643 he signed a contract with
Madelenne Bejart, founding a company called the

lllustre Theatre. and the following year adopted
the name Moliere. The lllustre Theatre experienced

८ a?

"ii
३'

great difficulties in 1645 Moliere was imprisoned for debt, and at
the end of the year troupe was forced to leave Pans. From 1645
to 1658 Moliere and his friends toured the provinces, especially
the south-west, Languedoc, and the Rhone valley. During those
years, with the support of the nooility, Moliere gained experience
in the theatre and made a name for himself in the provinces as
Moreover he
an actor and a writer of farces and comedies.

became director of the troupe, which he enlarged by acquiring
the best actors of other road companies, Moliere and his

company arrived in Paris in the fall of 1658. On October 24 in the
guard room of the old Louvre, he performed for LOltiS XlV Pierre
Corneille’s tragedy NICDMEDE and a force of his own that is
now lost, Le Docteur arnoureux ("The Amorous Doctor”).
Amused by the farce, Louis XlV granted Moliere and his troupe
the right to remain in Paris.
However. for political and religious reasons, royal favor was rot
steadfast, and in 1972 Louis XIV withdrew it from Moliere and
granted it to Jean Baptiste Lully. Disappointed, exhausted and
very Ill, Moliere had convulsions at the end of the fourth
I

performance of LE MALADE IMAGINAIRE, on February 17 1973
and died the same night.

Although the pious wanted him to

,

be refused a Christian burial he was buried normally on
February 21 ,. but at night, so as to “avoid scandal”.
Moliere s originality consisted in moving away from romanesque
comedy toward farce and making great theater of it. Instead
of usrng the rebounds of a complicated plot as the centre of
interest, Moliere started off with certain fixed masks and made
them into human types by adding to them characteristic:
observed in contemporary life. This genre, called "character
comedy , presents a spectacle of inner forces embodied in
indivrdualized characters who seek to dominate or to protect

themselves with a persistence that provokes laughter th'ou h its
extreme results but that is similar to the fatality of passion gin
Bacrne.

Moliere's protagonists are thus absolute egotists who

invent values-generally illusory, hence the humor—to satisfy
their appetites. Dupes of themselves or calculating Cre' tures
such character are prisoners of their own natures. ‘Moliere's I

enemies, .ID fact, could not bear the pessimism represented b

hi“

comic spirit, for he implied that every human 'mpulse can bey
a
reducetdr to ar|t illusion that masks a tyrannical egotism and
rence 1e
va uesoforden“
interest
'
’
become
ijmts
या. tha t are consrdered
most sacred
may

- J C H N G A E S |\’ E R

