[ 5J
plays Would also reveal how

the Radio has been

playing its signiﬁcant role in the process of experimentation and of opening up of a new horizons for
playwriting in this part of the country.
The scope of stage presentation of plays was limited just after independence. Co-acting was not at all
popular. It Was left for the radio to p ave the way for
co-acting in Assam. The Radio studio has provided
a forum to many playrights to listen to their plays
being enacted and to form an idea about the dramatic
possibilities of their writings. Veteran playrights
like Prabin Phukan would not have been able to
know the actablc qualities of his plays “Samidhan”
or “Pangu Baba” had they not been broadcast. Progressive and avant garde plays like “Nibaran Bhattacharyya “Bhaswati. Janma" etc was ﬁrst broadcast
and then presnted on the stage.
The studios of All India Radio has also provided
facilities for re-orienting the traditional Assamese Ankiya Nat and the pains in this respect by scholars
like Dr. Maheswar Neog got recognition and opened

up the dramatic possibilities of the traditional plays

on the modern stage.
All India Radio, Guwahati has also

started the

Vogue of writing serial plays, short humurous skits

and sketches and of dramatising novels and short
stories. It has brought the world Theatre closer
to us by broadcasting dramatised radio versions of
classics. Another signiﬁcant contribution of the
Radio is the introduction of monologues and Dr.
Birendra Kumar Bhattacharyya’s series of monologues
can be mentioned in this connection.

The production techniques of radio plays have also
contributed considerably towards improving the pro-

duction techniques of stage plays. The effective use
of the microphone, of sound effects and thematic

background have cosiderably

embelished the pro-

duction of stage plays. All India Radio has also
given recognition to drama stalarts by including
their plays in the National hook up and has started
the vogue of musical features and operas. Radio
plays have also helped forward the process of writing
one act plays which were boosted up through University and College level competitions after independence.

