VEE R TIKENDRAJIT

,

Veer I 1kendraj1t1s a historical play based on Manipur War 1891. It
represents the last struggle of the brave Independent Manipuris to sa
ve
their country from British domination. It1s not merely a historical episode.
It1s an excited reﬂection on the Manipuri people, on the ﬁght for freedom,
on the qualities ofpatriots embodied1n two personalities viz Veer Tikendrajit, the prince and the Manipuri General, Thangal. It also exposes the
treachery of the British Imperialists, the calculated move of the British
ofﬁcers to deprive the Manipuris of their freedom and subjugate them.

SYNOPSIS OF THE PLAY
1.

It is noon at the Palace Darbar Hall,

King Surchandra proposes

to hand over some of the administrative responsibilities to the British

Political Agent, which is hotly disapproved by almost all.

The schism

between the Princes-Pakasana and Veer Tikendrajit occurs.

2. General Thangal ﬁnds along the road the wounded followers of
I‘ikendrajit severely beaten by Pakasna’ 8 men. The Princes meet and
throw a challenge to each other. The brave girl Maipakpi प 1119 her dead
father.
3. In the dead of night the Queen consoles Maipakpi. King Surchandr‘a awakes after a bad dream. PalaCe Revolt led by Tikendrajit starts
and the King voluntarily abdicates the throne. The brother of Surchandra,
Kulchandra, accepts the throne.
4. On thepetition submitted by King surchandra, the GOvernment
ofIndia sends the AssistantCommissioner, Mr. Gordon to Manipur with
the object of removing Tikendrajit from Manipur. Mr. Quintan, the Chief
Commissioner, arrives

’

८

'

- -

.५ . ,

…

ट्वें १3६९३…- 55 51०

.

'. , _... . . ..

., . . ८ uh

5. King Kulachandra, Tikendrajit and other nobles arrive at the
Residency gate to attend theDarbar and wait long outside while the
Manipuri version of the Government order is being attempted inside.
Tikendrajit goes back1n disgust The Darbar’1s adjourned.
. '6. Tikendrajit pretends to be ill. The Political Agent Mr. Grimwood
followed by ASsistantSecretary to Chief CommissiOner, Mr. Simpson
arrives and reads out the order Tikendrajitrefuses to surrender. The
British troops attack Tikendrajit’s house at night. ३
३
'

ठे
_- ..\ ५.. / _ च है . ’4 a त्मा . ..;'

