Historical Background
“Sir Chandrakirti died1n 1886 and was succeeded by his eldest son
Surchandra. During his reign Yaiskullakpa and Wangkheirakpa revolted,
in suppressing of which the British rendered assistance according to their
pledge.”
.

“Angow Senapati and Jillangamaba revolted against Surchandra, which
was subsequently joined by ’I‘ikendrajit. Surchandra took shelter in the
Residency. The then Political Agent Grimwood offered assistance. But
Surchandra refused to accept the offer and abdicated on behalf of Kulachan-

dra, Chandrakirti’s 2nd son, as desired by their father as well as according
to the Manipuri custom having the force of law. Accordingly he left
Manipur. But after reaching Cachar he submitted a memorial to the
Governor- General of India for his restoration to the gadi”
“After consulting the Chief Commissioner of Assam the memorial of
Surchandra was rejected and it was ordered that Kulachandra be recognised
as the Maharajah of Manipur and '1 lkendrajlt be exiled from Manipur. To
execute this order, the Chief Commissioner of Assam came to Manipur. He
intended to announce the order and execute it in the open Darbar. Accordingly he called Kulachandra and 'I‘ikendrajit who went. But they were
detained at the gate for along time. After waiting for some time TikendraF
jit returned home and Kulachandra also was to return as he was informed

after long last that the Durbar would not be held that day."
“In the night between 23rd and 24th March 1891, some columns of
sepoys headed by European ofﬁcers entered Tikendrajit’s compound
( Known as 'I‘ampakyum ) and committed massacre of the innocent. But
they could not effect the arrest of Tikendrajit. Early in the morning the
British ﬁred to the palace from the temple of the Brindaban Chandra
( Radha Krishna image of the Yubaraj ).
The Manipuri were very much
excited as many innocent females and children including Brahmins were
killed in the previous night and the image of Brindaban were under the
sole of the British army within their vigilance. So the Manipuris fought
tooth and nail. And although the British sepoys were well trained regular
army and fully equipped and armed withuptodate weapons much superior

to those held by the irregular Manipuris, the British army retreated and
remained in the Residency compound. Five European ofﬁcers including
the Chief Commissioner Quinton, Political agent Grimwood, Colonel Skene

