(7)
decision of their Government.
It may be remembered that Mr. Grimwood
asked the Maharajah to surrender 'I‘ikendrajit
or give him a written authority to arrest him.

That was the right procedure

if the Goverenment of

India wanted to remove Tikendrajit but t
he right way was tried after
poisoning. the mind of the Manipuris by tr
ying the wrong way, unsuccess-

fully but vigorously.”
“The order of the Government of India, though b
ad and unpalatable,
was not as bad as Mr. Quinton made it
appear to be.

The reason of

'I‘ikendrajit’s contemplated removal as his
suspected complicity in the
Palace Revolt of 1890. Kulaohandra being at
Bishnupur at that time, did

not participate in the revolt, and was therefore allowe
d to succeed to Sur
Chandra. These reasons were not axplained to Ti
kendrajit before the 23rd
March. The internment of Tikendrajit would not be fo
r life. He would be
given an allowance and eventually permitted to
return to Manipur, the
term of internment depending chieﬂy on good beh
aviour, and allowed to
succeed to the throne after the death
of Kulachandra. These were not
explained "to him before the 23rd March. Mr.
Grimwood did explain them to

him on that day. But it was after the Manipuris h
ad discovered by their
own effort the hidden meaning of Mr. Quinton’s
planed Tikendrajit had
every reason to doubt the bonaﬁdes of the people w
ho had tried to capture

him by alluring him to the ‘Barbar’ under a false sense of security.
“Mr. Quinton has to be blamed for the attack on
the house of the

Jubaraj also. Whatever might have been the nature of the ‘
strict order’
given to them, the British troops desecrated the temple an
d robbed the
image of Brindaban Chandra ( Shri Krishna ) of all jewellery
. They also
killed the domestic servant of 'I‘ikendrajit including some women
, wiped out "
entire family of the Muslim ofﬁcer we mentioned in connection wit
h Darbar
in the residency. The attack of the house of Jubaraj had a direct bea
ring
on the violent disposition of the crowd which followed Mr. Quinto
n and
party. 0n the 23rd March Mr. Grimwood and Lt. Simpson c
ame to the
Palace unarmed and unattended even by an orderly.
That was before the
attack of the Jubaraj. No one thought of injuring any of the two Englishmen then.
“On the fateful day, Mr. Quinton led the British ofﬁcers into the fort
and the Palace Without asking for or obtaining safe conduct from the

Government of Manipur. If they wanted to enter the Manipuri Fort and
Palace after more than: 12 hours’ bitter ﬁghting, at least he should have

