p.

नौ

NIPA
PREAMBLE
Over the ages, nothing has brought a human being closer to another human
being, as has cultural exchange among people. Therefore, it has been
earnestly felt that it would be ideal to have a common platform, where people
of contemporary India could observe and share the lifes and different cultures
of their counterparts living in the different states of the country and thereafter,
different corners of the world. And that is precisely what, "National Institute
of Performing Arts (NIPA)", proposes to do, but with a difference ——
NIPA is a non profit making Educational & Cultural Organisation, without any
political, racial and religious conﬁnements, which believes in promoting
talented, creative & deserving Amateurs.
0 BJ ECTIVES :
a) To Organise Theatre Olympiad every alternate year.
b) To hold national and international seminars on various media of
performing Arts.
0) To organise national festivals of various kinds of performing Arts viz.—
classical, contemporary, folk, traditional and indigenous.
d)

To collect material on Indian cultural heritage especially on performing
arts and artists to preserve them in the theatre, museum or archieve.

Parallely, the preservation of both Oriental and ”Occidental performing
material will be done to facilitate comparative study by future
researchers.

To undertake higher research on Indian performing Arts for bringing
the same into international focus for people of other countries.
f) To arrange international cultural exchange programmes to help overseas
students and researchers on Indian art.
9) To enrich new human experiences by exchanging different thoughts
and ideas among people throughtout the globe through the medium
of performing Arts.
i) To impart training in different branches of cultural science and
audio-visual methodology.
ii) To recognise young talent in the ﬁeld of Live Art.
iii) To evaluate the process to give impetus to the young generation
through its talent search programmes in the ﬁeld of performing
Arts.

e)

iv) To fulﬁl the various demands of today's society for propagating,
developing and protecting various branches of Performing Arts.
हाँ
m

