These companies, unlike the professional companies

active in Marathi theatre today, formed with a veiw of profit
making, delivered to the demands of their consumers - the
audience. Emphasis being on the commercial success,

their efforts have been to produce box - office hits. This led
to stagnation in acting and production styles as well as in
playwrighting. But at the same time the contribution of
these companies in popularising this form of art and maintaining it for more than a century now, has today, provided
us with a rich tradition. Talking in terms of Goa in particular,
the popularity of theatre is really amazing. It is not only in

terms of witnessing the theatre but also the extent to which
it is practiced throughtout the State.
।१ is said, every Goan is an artist'. Going a step,
forward, I would say almost every Goan is theatre artiste.
।१ is a question of getting an opportunity to develop talent
and be provided with an exposure. This is proved by the
participation of Goan actors in popular Marathi theatre.
The introduction of a full-fledged theatre training
course by the Academy has started showing encouraging
results. But the scope remains limited. ।१ is not possible for
many to join a full time theatre training course.
For that matter, formal training is not the only means
of education, particularly in the field of Art. It is the inquistive
mind, observation and experience that helps you to learn if
you have a sincere desire.

The Repertory Company can play a significant role in
this regard. ।१ should function as a leading light by way of
exhibiting plays of high standard in terms of their content

and presentation. It should reach people in far flung villages and smaller towns where one does not get an oppor-

tunity to see good theatre. This may influence the amateur
theatre workers, active in the area.

The Repertory Company need not necessarily pro-

duce popular plays for entertainment alone but should
establish a theatre of intelligence, skill and relevance. The
success of the company, therefore, should not be mea-

