A UT HO R ' 8 NOTE
Writing Mahabhoj first as a novel and then as play
were two different creative experiences for me. Naturally

so, for each art-form has its own peculiar requirements and
conditions. While the novel was being written, the Reader's
existence became so much part of the situations, characters and issues that it never struck me as a seperate entity.

But the play had to begin with the Spectator. The continuous presence of the Spectator in fact influenced the shape
of my work. Then, gathering the sweep of the novel into a
right and effective arrangement of scenes, absenting my
३ own self totally and letting dialogue and action build the
characters and situations, compressing the entire work into
the alloted playing - time and space - these and other
conditions had to be observed without distorting the basic
meaning of my work. This continuous balancing of the
content with the dramatic - form was for me, novelist, an
entirely new experience. The whole process definitely served
to widen and enrich my outlook and understanding.
Mahabhoj, as a novel, is neither character-oriented

nor issue-oriented. Those kinds of plots are easily focussed
around a particular character or issue which gives a tight,
one-pointed quality to the work. Mahabhoi is a situationoriented novel, an exposition of the political atmosphere of
today. it is no more men of vision and high ideals who
control politics today ; rather, politics has created its own
special breed of characters, characters who are compelled
not by their conscience, inner courage or convictions, but

by the pressure of situations. Such characters are no more
than slaves. The ambitions of each slave is to have whiphand and this vicious disease is corrupting all classes of our
society. But does man give himself up so easily to the
pressure of situations ? Does he not revolt at all ‘? On this
level the novels is situation oriented as well as a protest
against the existing situation.
'
The sprawling structure of the novel with its teeming
characters had to be mercilessly edited, altered and even

re-written to fit within the given playing time. This endeavour
was shared equally by Mrs. Amal Allana, director of the
play. The script, prepared along the lines suggested by her,
underwent so many more alterations during rehearsals that
it would be more appropriate now to call it a joint experiment
conducted primarily by Amal Allana, Prem Matiyani and
myself.

