Interpretation of Othello
The origin and conception of Othello remains still a mystery.
We do know, however, that this play was ﬁrst performed
in the Whitehall court of" James I in 1604.

Since then, though

countless actors have attempted to portray Othello, only
few have succeeded in presenting something excellent and original. We shall deal here

with the very few

who

are still

famous for their renderings of Shakespeare’s ﬁnest tragedies.
E D M U N D K EA N

Kean’s Othello was a wild impassioned Moor who, at the beginning, was digniﬁed, controlled and composed. Iago’s mischief
showed its effect on Othello in a deep agitation of jealousy,
in a low-voiced faltering affectation of'occasional ease, bursts of
intolerable anguish and in the depiction of outraged dignity.

His farewell to the tranquil mind was as pathetic as a lover’s farewell to a mistress. Each farewell was spoken with a division of
the syllables, strongly marked, while he gave no importance to
the “plumed troops” and “great wars”. The melancholic note
predominated and the speech emerged as one big mass of regret.
His head shook, his visage quivered and he used mild quiet tones
more awful than any loud proclamations. Leigh Hunt spoke

of Kean ending his Othello with a desperate savageness of
revenge, a half-exhausted reception of the real truth and, ﬁnally,
in the resumption of a kind of moral attitude and dignity, at

the moment when he used that ﬁne deliberate artiﬁce and sheathed the dagger in the breast.
The outstanding weakness that lay in Kean’s interpretation was

that, though he showed up all the violence, extravagance and
ﬁerceness of Othello’s passion, he indicated nothing of the
misgivings, helplessness and sinking into despair. It came to a
point when Othello rasped on the nerves, and what should

have been a heart-rending climax became a rant. His performance held touches of artiﬁciality and of studied art, lacking
out
spontaneity. Despite all this, Keanls interpretation stands

as a landmark in the history of this play’s performance.

T O M M A S 0 SA LV I N |
The next distinguished interpreter of this role after Kean was
Salvini. His Othello was utterly unlike anything his generation
had seen. It was magniﬁcient in the way he showed the slow
change of O’thello’s character and in the way he developed the
emotions of the Moor step by step with the greatest of detail.

