ge and passionate
Othello f'or Salvini was a barbarian, whose sava
lization so thick
instincts were concealed behind a veneer of civi
other than he
that he was scarcely conscious that he could be
courteous.
appeared. Basically he was friendly, loving ond
blood, the
When the poison of jealousy fermented in his
and the civilizing
strife between animal nature, on the one hand,
sharp. Eveninﬂuence of custom, on the other, became long and

and the
tually the barbarian triumphed over the civilized self,
pses
concluding scenes, if not wholly savage, exhibited mere glim
ly tested,
of those restraints, which, in Act III, though bare
e, was
remained dominant. Salvini’s picture of Othello, therefor

it
that of a noble animal turning piteously in the toils in which
had been enmeshed, its efforts at escape serving only to render
its position in the mire of self destruction more hopeless and

desperate.

'

In the Senate scene, Othello was calm and with sustained dignity. A mere glimpse of his true nature, his ﬁery impetuous disposition, was seen, however, at the appearance and entry of Des-

demona. He covered her with a look of extreme tenderness.
The look became burning until, forgetful of all restraints,
he enf'olded her in his arms. Later, he turned with a gesture

of apology to the Senators, as the recollection of the august
presence around him overtook him. There Othello was almost

schoolboyish in love and the desire to please. Only the brawl
scene in Cyprus helped indicate Othello as the commander of
men.
The very ﬁrst actul change in Salvini’s Othello was seen when
the duel with Iago commenced, and the uneasiness of suspicion

was gradually communicated to the mind of Othello. The audience beheld him almost laugh off Iago’s suggestions, until the
more he laughed the more the evil transﬁxed itself in his

mind. The slowness to drink in suspicion and the manner in
which the presentiment of evil was transﬁgured into horror and
rage, were perhaps the most strikingly original characteristics of

his interpretation. A touch of childishness was again seen in
Othello when he begged Iago to help him.
The famous farewell to his former occupation was delivered

with great pathos. It was a farewell to his better self. When the
voice of Iago broke in on his thread of reﬂection, Othello lost
all control. He seized Iago by the throat and almost throttled
him. Restraint, however, reasserted itself and Othello stood mute

in apology. In Act I V, Othello extended ill-worn courtesy to

