Desdemona, revealing a menace in his eyes which burned with
the lurid light of resolution. It was felt here by Stanislavsky that
Salvini’s Othello was furiously happy when he saw what he
thought the conclusive proof—-the handkerchief in Cassio’s hand.
It is generally believed by critics that in the very last scene

Salvini undid the beauty of the former scenes and sacriﬁced the
interests of Shakespearian intent by letting the barbarian ferociously triumph over the civilized self. Salvini dragged Desdemona by her hair to the bed and strangled her with a violence
that took delight in its ofﬁce. Later, when motionless and with
a glazed eye he learned the awful truth, he staggered forth with
an open mouth, a countenance charged with tragic passion, and

delivered himself to a wild abandoned grief, inarticulate in
utterance, and accompanied it by beating his head with his hands.
At the very end, Othello slit his throat with a scimitar, imitating
vocally the noise of breath and blood escaping from a severed

wind pipe.
CO N STA N T I N STA N I S LA V 8 KY
When Stanislavsky produced Othello, after
Salvini, he
made the mistake of evolving an Othello who was an unhappy
mixture of Salvini’s interpretation and an Arab whom Stani-

slavsky had once met. The expected result of this was a confused conglomeration of elements, making an entity that no one,
not even Stanislavsky, could rightly understand.

His production held a few notable and unusual elements. To
begin with, Stanislavsky started Othello with a gondola
ﬂoating up the stage along with the sound of splashing oars. In
the scene between Brabantio and Roderigo, the household was
shown slowly coming to life. Servants ran after the abductor,

sleepy ﬁgures opened easements and soldiers buckling their
armour came swiftly to the open to climb into the already full
gondolas.

In the Senate scene, Stanislavsky gave all the people present
there black masks. The Cyprus scene also gained new proportions. Cyprus for Stanislavsky was Turkey. The disparity between the atmospheres of Cyprus and Venice was emphasised.
Cyprus was oriental, stark and bare against Venice which
maintained all the pomp and splendour of the West. Later, when
the brawl scene took place, the implications behind it were

widened to a point where it ceased to be a ﬁght among individuals, and became a Cypriot riot. It was thus natural that

