Othello should view this, as he did, with severity and strictness.

On the whole, however, as Stanislavsky himself terms it, there
was an overstraining of muscle and voice, with no underlying

development of meaning. Whereas the play needed mathematical working out of emotions that took a good man to
the very heights of animal jealouly, Stanislavsky just followed
vaguely his intuition. The net

result was that the Othello

which emerged was also vague and incomprehensible.
LA U R E N C E O L | V l ER
Olivier acted for the ﬁrst time in Othello in 1938. He played

Iago. It is interesting to note the original interpretation

he

conceived. After conferring with Dr. Jones, the eminent psychia-

trist, Olivier decided that Iago had ruined Othello, not because
he hated him, but because he loved him subconsciously, with
a love the homosexual foundation of which he did not understand. Iago wanted Desdemona’s death because he was jealous
of the attention and love she received from the Moor. Thus

the 1938 Iago was not an intense dark villain but a smiling
smooth and slightly eﬁ‘eminate character.
In 1963, when Olivier approached the play again, he was trou-

bled by the feeling that the play belonged to Iago who alWays
managed to make the Moor look like a senile idiot. “If I take

it on,” he said, “I don’t want a witty Machiavellian Iago. I
want a solid honest-to-God N.C.O.”

The settings were to be sparse and simple. The main idea underlying the production was that Othello was a man essentially
narcissistic and self-dramatising, “a pompous, word-spinning,
arrogant black general,” a man too proud to think himself

capable of anything as debased as jealousy. The knowledge
that he could be jealous destroyed him, and he went berserk.
For Olivier, Othello was, at the ﬁrst glance, a man with an

easy rolling gait, enormous sly eyes, and a tender tigerish
smile. He displayed a sophisticated Negro, wise enough to
conform to the white man’s idea of a black man, with a deve-

loped sense of racial superiority. With his soldiers and Venetians he was quiet-spoken, conﬁdent in the knowledge that his
presence was enough to command respect. With the Senators
Othello was quietly condescending. While recounting to the
Senate his success with Desdernona, he ranged between gentle
amusement and proud selchongratulation. “Upon this hint
I spake,” was preceded by a smiling shrug, the actor referring
to the hint as an amused understatement.

