In Cyprus, Othello changed ever so slightly to indicate a man
more at ease with the Cypriots than the Venetians. He embraced Desdernona when he met her, quite beside himself with
deep internal joy, barely able to speak. Iago’s ﬁrst song was
a homesick soldier’s lament in Olivier’s Othello, instead of
the usual rousing chorus. The CassioaMontano squabble, as
with Stanislavsky, developed into a popular riot, mutinous
Cypriots rebelling against their Venetian overlords.
The Othello-Iago sequences changed brilliantly, so that no
sooner did Iago mention Cassio, than Othello himself took the
initiative by quizzing him with a concentrated persistence. The
notion of being hit by jealousy was, when dropped by Iago, met
with angry incomprehension. Later, Othello exploded in outrage,

while Iago was almost frightened by his ferocity. Later still,
when ego reasserted itself, “Why did I marry ‘2” was uttered
with the ‘1’ heavily stressed, almost to say “Why me of all
people?" “Farewell the tranquil mind” was an animal moan of
desolation with Othello pacing back and forth on the stage.

The whole approach that made Iago credible was based on
the direction that Iago should really believe that Desdemona
was sleeping with Cassio.

It also made Iago’s hypocrisy per-

fect and impenetrable. Thus Iago almost burst into tears while
recounting Cassio’s dream. A little later, Othello’s “Now by
yon marble heaven,” was a surging atavistic roar. He tore off
the cruciﬁx from his neck and threw it into the air. Othello
was a Moor again. Another curious touch of Olivier’s was found
in the handkerchief scene with Desdemona. Here the words
“The handkerchief,” are repeated three times. The climax is
usually attained in the third cry, but Olivier reached a climax
in the ﬁrst two utterances, and in the last he uttered the lines
like a desperate suppliant, whimpering for reassurance, his

hands clasped before him in prayer. “Naked in bed Iago and
not mean any harm ‘2” was murmurously chanted like a satanic litany. The two men swayed from side to side, locked
in Othello’s pain. Thenceforth, Othello, the supremely self:
conﬁdent egocentric, was at the mercy of Iago.

The murder was accomplished with relentless implacable
precision. Honour having been offended, the penalty prescribed
had to be enforced. When the truth was revealed and Emilia
had her say, Othello knelt on the bed, hugged the limp form of

Desdemona, slashed his throat with a hidden stiletto and slumped over her like a falling tower.
Rita Puri First Year

