AN APPROACH TO “O'I'I'IELLO”
A summary of discussions held with the cast
in the course of rehearsals.
in interpreting OTHELLO we are concerned not only with
discovering a style that can effectively communicate the mean-

ing of the play, but with deﬁning an attitude of mind that will
reach beyond the rehearsal and performance of a play into
social behaviour.

This is an attitude that is questioning, that scrutinises social
situations rather than emotional states; an attitude that is not
obsessed with the psychology of individuals no matter how
“great” or interesting, but rather with the signiﬁcance of their
effect on others. We think of them not as extraordinary

individuals, a law unto themselves, and preoccupied with the
uniqueness of their individual emotions, but as beings living in
a society to which they are responsible, and to
accountable for their actions.

which they are

OTHELLO’S PASSION 85 RHETORIO
What we think and how we think affect our actions, and our

actions affect those around us (and those around us are not to
be regarded as insigniﬁcant and passive individuals caught in

the maelstrom of our (in this case, Othello’s) unique passion.
There is nothing unique about Othello's profound love for Desdemona— a common prostitute such as Bianca loves with the

same sincerity, intensity and blindness.
And so we do not allow the characters to sweep us off our feet
with the force of their rhetoric. We judge them by the choices
they make. We stand apart and watch them do this, rather
than the three other alternatives left to them, and, unmoved

by their rhetoric, we judge them by the decisions they take.
W e are suspicious of the passions of such seemingly romantic
characters as Othello. Actually in our interpretation we are not
concerned exclusively with his feeling of betrayal and his deep
jealousy. Rather we are interested in this phenomenon, namely
that men with a strong propensity for evil (such as Iago) use
the goodness of human beings (such as Othello, Desdemona,

Cassio etc.) and turn that very goodness against themselves.
These “good” human beings are destroyed by their own positive
qualities, i.e. their unquestioning trust, their faith, their innocent

blindness, their inability to see and comprehened a scale of
values other than their own. To ﬁght evil, one must recognise

and comprehend evil, and expose it for what it is. One cannot
remain, as Othello, Desdemona and Cassio remain, passwe
victims. Goodness tends to be passive, complacent, assuming
that all is and will continue to be well with the world, and that
virtue is its own reward. Evil is ferociously active. It has amazing
energy, resourcefulness and imagination. All that Iago .does is
to set each character on the path of his own self-destruction.
Such diabolic understanding and abuse of human nature is
surely something that we have experienced on a huge scale in our
own time: how Nazism turned a whole nation against its own
reason; brain-washing of all kinds—the capacity to make people
believe whatever you wish them to believe and to make them act

according to your designs, through insidious propaganda, or

