mentalism in the icy water of egoistical calculations. It has
resolved personal worth into exchange value. In one word,
for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, it has
substituted naked, shameless, direct brutal exploitation. It has

stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto honoured and looked up to with reverent awe. It has torn away from the family
its sentimental veil, and has reduced family relations to money.”
Thus the play takes place at a historically important point when
society is undergoing a fundamental change—the ruling classes
are losing their grip and giving way to the bourgeois middle

class. Shakespeare regards their decline as tragic. These great
reroic ﬁgures are too idealistic for the new harsh reality that
surrounds them. They have to die simply because they have no
place in the new world coming into existence around them.

Macbeth ’s belief in superstition and witchcraft, Lear’s patriarchal
ideas, the blood feuds of the Capulets and Montagues in R0MEO AND JULIET are all feudalistic ideas which have to die.

THE DIALEOTIGAL APPROACH
Then comes the question of “dialectics”. Now that we can see
the play objectively we can observe the contradictions in events

and personalities, the relativity of actions. One observes for
example certain self-indulgent, bombastic and arrogant qualities
in Othello which one draws attention to instead of blurring over.
One brings forward his lack of shrewdness, his blindness not as
positive qualities, but as negative ' ones—as deﬁnite inexcusable
' weaknesses on his part.

Approaching characters dialectically one sees them as human
beings full of contradictions reacting differently in different situ-

ations. One has to be careful with characters like Iago and, despite their propensity for evil, avoid painting them only black
but try to discover valid motivations for

their

behaviour.

This is particularly difﬁcult in the case of Iago who does
not reveal himself even to the audience and remains adamantly

uncontrite to the end. His economic situation, he naturally feels,
is not commensurate with his practical skill and intellectual su-

periority. His resentment against well-to-do fools like Roderigo
and inexperienced ﬂamboyant playboys like Cassio is therefore

quite understandable. Inherited wealth, social prestige and in—
ﬂuence in the higher classes seem to get the undeserving positions of authority, whereas perseverance, professional devotion

and inherent talent which Iago has in considerable measure, lead
only to frustration.

THE SETTINE
The setting is deliberately bare, shorn of any ornament, so that
the situations are emphasised. The audience should be made to
concentrate on the issues involved.
An absolutely bare stage can represent any locale.

We started with an elaborate stage with many levels (model on
view in the foyer) and ultimately arrived at this simple scenic
statement.
THE COSTUMES
On the whole the Costumes are basically simple acting costumes; dark trousers and a dark vest. On this, upper garments

suggestive of the.character are worn. The acting costume is used
to emphasise clarity of outline, both in silhouette as well as in
movement.

