2
(Pingala) are sharing
In the prelude, two maid servants of the Queen
, out of love for the
conﬁdence. One tells the other how the King
lessons in music to
Queen, has employed a music teacher to give
her is none other
Pingala. But the other reveals that the music teac
engaged and also
than a prince (Sarvajnya) to whom Pingala was once
r.
that the two are showing undue interest in each othe
for the music
In the main Act Pingala is seen anxiously waiting
emns women
teacher. The latter is really a spy and in a soliloqy cond

as unintelligent.

Pingala is a noble woman who, though attracted

s that
more and more towards Sarvajnya, restrains herself. She know
ideal for
she is a queen and, therefore, her behaviour must be an
ne
others and also that her husband, who is known for his huma
approach towards the world, loves her dearly. Sarvajnya, however,
met
who, in league with Vipasa (the lovely beauty whom the king
earlier) is acting as a spy, only tells the Queen rthat Bhartrhari is not

the standard husband she is boasting of but is actually in love with
another woman. The queen shocked at this, faints. After she has

regained consciousness, news is brought to her by the Chief Minister
that the victorious armies of Bhartrhari are returning to the Capital.
The King, however, has gone to a nearby forest for hunting and would
return later.

Pingala already shocked by what Sarvajnya had told

her, is wondering whether the news about some woman entering the
King’s life is, after all, true. Here ends the 2nd Act.
In the Prelude, we ﬁnd Vidusaka rather distressed at the “fall” of
his friend—the King. The latter is now too deep in love with Vipasa
and is enjoying her company in a nearby forest.

A ﬁsherman comes

along and has a message to deliver to the Chief Minister.

The

message narrates how the horse on which Vipasa was riding slipped in
a rivulet and how she had become unconscious. The Chief Minister
orders all necessary help to the King’s camp site.
In the main Act erotic songs come out of Bhartrhari’s mouth.
He is longing for a complete union with Vipasa (Asasmahe
vigrahayorabhedam).

Vipasa has regained consciousness.

The King

out of love offers her the magic fruit but she does not eat lit at once.
On the contrary she is worried that in the Palace, where the King will
soon take her, she will get a very inferior position and the Queen
will be jealous. Bhartrhari, however, assures her that while he loves
her, everything will be alright. While he is about to embrace her, the

