3
Chief Minister and the jester arrive, and the King goes to the Capital
in a special palanquin brought for him. Here ends the third Act.
In the Interlude, the Chief Minister and a spy (Aniruddha) are in
conversation. The Kosala has again attacked the Kingdom and news
about the army movement is somehow reaching the enemy (Kosala)

because enemy agents are Operating in Ujjayini.

By chance Sarvajnya

and Vipasa arrive there and the Chief Minister and the spy‘ go in
hiding and overhear their conversation. It is clear (that both Sarvajnya

and Vipasa are spies and have plotted to kill Bhartrhari.
received instructions to that effect from their king (Kosala).

They have
Vipasa’s

so called love for the King is a pretence. She, on the contrary, parts
with the magic fruit so lovingly given {to her by the King and asks
Sarvajnya to consume it.

In the main Act the King and Vidusaka are in conversation. The
King is in a dejected mood. A11 is not well with the ﬁghting going
on against Kosala. Meantime, the: King has to keep his engagement
to attend a dance by Vipasa when the Queen (Pingala) sings beautiful
songs taught by Sarvajnya to her. The King is pleased and offers
gifts to all. But (the Chief Minister curiously suggests that Sarvajnya
deserves only one prize viz. death. All are surprised but his man
(Aniruddha) brings in the letter from Kosala which he got from
Sarvajnya’s house. Vipasa admits her guilt and also says. (that she
who was only feigning her love for the King, had given the magic
fruit to Sarvajnya—her real love.

The latter has therefore become

immortal. Meantime the queen produces the celebrated fruit which
Sarvajnya—while making false love to her—had given it to her. All
this makes Bhartrhari despondent and he composes the famous poem
(Yam chintayami Satatam etc.). He has decided to renounce the world
and his son Vikrama is to take his place.

(Sringara) to Vairagya is complete.

His transformation from

The Brahmin who had presented

the magic fruit comes and takes it away since none seemed to deserve
it. The play ends with an epilogue which shows how ﬂeeting are

the things that we value so much in life (Ayuh Kallolalolam
Katipayadivasasthayini youwanasreehi etc.)

