8
a tornado of destruction and an all-out pandemonium in the city
streets. For this act he has been rewarded by a stole from a digniﬁed
man who has nothing else to offer in appreciation. Vasantasena,
realising that it was Charudatta who exchanges the stole for an ornament hurries to the balcony with Madanika to have a look at
Charudatta,

ACTS III & IV (our Act III)

Charudatta and Maitreya return from a musical concert late at night.
They retire to their beds, when Sharvilaka, in order to free Madanika
from Vasantasena’s service, enters Charudatta’s mansion by housebreaking with the intention of robbery. Maitreya, a simpletion,
mistaking him to be his friend deposits the jewellery of Vasantasena

in the hands of Sharvilaka. Radanika, the maid-servant, learns of the
mishap and informs Maitreya, who makes Charudatta aware of the
robbery. Both of them are restless, when Charudatta’s wife offers her
string of precious stones in compensation. Charudatta immediately
sends Maitreya to give it to- Vasantasena.
Sharvilaka goes to meet Madanika who does not approve of the fact
that it should have been Vasantasena’s deposit that was stolen, that the

house robbed should have been that of Charudatta.
of saucy and humorous

banters

After an exchange

and repartees they decide

that

Sharvilaka should go to Vasantasena under the disguise of a messenger
from Charudatta and return the ornaments. But Vasantasena is clever
enough to understand the developments between Sharvilaka and
Madanika and hands over Madanika to him, Maitreya then comes
with the string of precious stones and offers it with apologies on

Charudatta’s behalf. Vasantasena sees through the whole game, yet
keeps silent, accepts the string and asks him to tell Charudatta that
she would be going to see him in the evening.
Act V (our Act IV)

In Charudatta’s garden Maitreya narrates to Charudatta, with a childlike indignation, the incident at Vasantasena’s house. A little later,
Vasantasena and the Cheti arrive. Maitreya enquires as to the motive

of their visit. In the following conversation the situation concerning
Vasantasena’s deposit is cleared and the Act ends in a heavy rainstorm accompanied by thunder and lightning.

