NAUTANKI
[ Its Signiﬁcance to the Indian 'I‘heat‘iE
‘

Nautanki is one of the most popular traditional theatre forms of India. It is popular
mainly in the state of Uttar Pradesh and other adjoining Hindi and Urdu speaking regions
"

…

such as Madhy-a Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and parts of Punjab.

The Nautanki form has evolved itself from different sources and streams of Indian

culture which is revealed most powerfully and distinctly in its themes, dialogues and
songs .
\ ५ ' व्य,

This form of folk drama owes its origin to the medieval tradition of dramatic
recitation, singing of Ballads and dancing.

It acquired a full‘ﬂedged operatic form by I. the
. . - . `क्वे '३ ३

middle of the 19th century.

Nautanki plays are based on a variety of themes and stories.

woven around Romantic Legends, Heroic Ballads etc)

Most Nautankis are

The advent of freedom in this

country has encouraged Nautanki presentations of contemporary themes

and

social 4

problems. In fact, in recent years Nautanki has captured the imagination of the common
man in India once again.

Nautanki is really a Folk Opera and hence, music plays a predominant part and is
perhaps the richest feature of this form. Such diverse styles of music as ‘Qa‘wwali‘,
‘Ghazal‘, ‘Sher’, ‘Doha’, Thumri’ etc. which are

‘very Well suited to express dramatic

sentiments have been assimilated and have proved most effective. Moreover such folk
styles as 'Alha’, ‘Chaubola’, ‘Lavan i’, ‘Mand’ etc. have also been fully exploitedt

The dramatic vitality and power of Naut-anki manifests itself fully on the bold and
ingeniously manipulated strokes of ‘Nakara’ (the drum), which sustains the performance
by holding as it Were together, the diﬂ‘erent operatic pieces and by setting the pace of
rhythmic movement and tempo of the performance.

The tonal quality of this instrument helps in heightening the emotional power and
in accentuating the dramatic e-ifect of the songs.

Despite its popularity, its dramatic vitality and the power of its music, the form
as a whole has lost much of its original power almost degenerating into a cheap and vulgar
immitation of the Parsee theatre: From the illusionary and stylised production it is now
growing into an unlimaginative realistic production.

Several conventions of the platform stage are being discarded in a Nautanki presenThis change in the form of the stage and in the methods of preSentatio‘n has also

tation.

affected the structure of Nautanki.

‘Ranga’ the narrater is no more required because

there are curtains to indicate the locale and change of scenes.
together with the ﬁlm songs and dances with which a modern

All these inﬂuences,

Nautanki

performance

is more often than not packed, are greatly undermining the Vitality of this folk play.
However, efforts are now being made to save this ‘form’ from degenerating further.

We have decided to make some humble eﬂbrts and create such conditions as would help in
generating a sympathetic atmosphere for this ‘form’ among the theatre lovers of our
c e u n t ry .

I As a ﬁrst step in this direction, we are sponsoring a few traditional Nautanki
parties in Delhi-one such party will entertain you this evening. ५

