S - C E है N " E S

ACT

I

Madnotsava is in full swing. Enter Queen Vasavadattt with Kanchanmala,
Sagarika, and Susangita. They all wait for the king, who also joines them. The Worship
of Kamdeva starts. While this worship is on, Ratnavali, who is Sagarika in this Court
falls in love with the king, taking him as real kamdev. All go out but Ratnavali
remains sitting there lost in thought.

A CT

|l

Ratnavali is love-sick. She is busy painting king’s portrait. Susangita enters and
notes this. She is very much affected by this and draws another portrait on the same
canvas, of Ratnavali and calls it Rati—wife of Kamadeva. In the dialogues between
these two young maidens, the love of Ratnavali for the King is forcefully revealed to the
extent that Ratnavali reaches a state of ecstacy and faints_ Susangita nurses her and
takes her away. Enter King and the comedian Basantaka. The look at the canvas which
has been inadvertently left there by Ratnawali. They are pleased to see the two . portraits
together. King declares his love for her. Enter Ratnawali and SUSangita & with the
help of Susangita and Vasantaka, they meet each other. The King makes love to her.
She feigns anger and goes away. Enter Queen and Kanchanmala. They also look at the
paintings and the the queen realises that the king has fallen in love with her maid
Sagarika. She quits in anger. The king also quits followed by the comedian.

A CT

I|l

Ranga tells us a conspiracy is, afoot. Susangita has put all the stately garments
on Sagarika who is looking exactly like Vasavadatta, prepared to meet the king. But the
Queen seems to know about all this. While she is expressing her doubts to Kanchan-mala
the comedian Vasantaok mistaking her to be Sagarika addresses both of them as i f they
were Sagarika and Susangita. They both remain quiet and do not reveal themselves till
they are addressed by the King himself. The king on knowix; g this is very much ashamed
and pleads to the Queen about his innocence. The Queen leaves in great anger. The
king is also about to leave, when Ratnavali enters putting on the costume". of the Queen
herself. She prepares to hang herself. As soon as she goes to the tree the comedian intervenes. The king persuades her not to kill herself, although she says she has no charm left
now in living. The kings ucceeds in convincing her of his love towards her, but at this moment
the Queen enters and listens to everything. She is very angry and orders the comedian as well
as Ratnavali to be arrested and brought before the court for trial. At this moment enters
the
chief
minister
Yogandharayan
and
the
minister
Vasubhuti,
Vasubhuti tells the reason of his coming and recognizes Sagarika who is no other than
the princess of Singhal. Everyone becomes curious,’ The chief minister Yogandharayan
tells the reason as to why he kept this fact a secret from everyone in the court; that
Sagaraka was Ratnavali herself, that on the prediction of a Soothsayer that king would
alone become an Emperor who shall have Ratnavali as his queen. He asked the king of
Singhal to marry Ratnavali to king Uddyaha who refused on this plea that Vasavadutta,
his ﬁrst daughter was already married to him. Upon this the news spread there that
Vasavadutta was burnt in some ﬁre. On hearing this news the king of Singhal agreed to
send Ratnavali to the court of Udayana. On the way a storm came but Ratnavali was
saved and brought to the court by the chief minister himself who placed her there with the
sole purpose of attracting the king and in this he has succeeded. All are surprised as well
as pleased, to hear this account and Queen Vasavadutta herself gives her sister
Ratnavali’s hand in marriage to the king Udayena.

