के

'य-आरे-.- -. '- . -.-. - ":- . . '-]: martil rt

Part of the IIC Experience, a Kathakali
dance presentation left Aruna Bhowmick
admiring the stylized classical dance
drama

athakali ls a stylized clas3 sical Indian dance drama,
,.
noted for the attractive
make-up of characters, elaborate
५ costumes, detailed gestures and शु

sions or rasas, body, and impressive eye
movements.
The main facial expressions in
Kathakali are the “navarasas ” or Nine
Tastes, and an elaborate make-up code,
the colours denoting the satt, rajat and
tamas defining each character, with the
necessary combinations and overlaps. In
an ingenuousmove, the curtain was effectively substituted by two people holding
up a heavy satin sheet, about 6ft by 9 ft. "
between scenes.

well-defined body movements '
presented in tune with the
anchor, playback music and
complementary percussion. It
originated in the country's present day state of Kerala during
the 17th century and has developed over the years with
improved looks, refined ges- ,
tures and added themes besides '
more ornate singing and precise
drumming.
Duryodhana vadham, a scene

की

दृ

from the epic Mahabharata, a ३

मैं

90-minute performance by है
Vayaskara Aryan Narayanan है I

Moosad (1841-1902) was recent- ’
1y presented by Guru Sadanam

‘k

की

While the Fountain Lawns get alive
८
in the evenings, the Gandhi King Plaza
“ is abuzz through the day as Delhi based

French contemporary artist Christine
Margotin’s life size bronzes in Portraits

' of Childhood draws Viewers.
प्री .,

"गु-शि-ल-प्रन . हृ... ३३९ . ३ f

Balakrishnan, with artists from The International Centre for Kathakali, New Delhi, as
part of the IIC Experience. In an interesting
reversal of the traditional practice of all characters played by men, here four of the Pandavas~ Bhim, Arjun, Nakul and Sahadev~
were women performers, whereas Draupa-

di was enacted by Kalamandalam Anil
Kumar. Sadanam Balakrishnan enacted
Duryodhanan; Sadanam M.N. Harikumar
played Dussassanan, and Kalabharath
Kalyanankrishnan enacted Dharmaputrar,
with Hemant Harikumar as the energetic Sakuni. Kottakkal Jayan and Kalamandalam
Manikandans provided excellent vocal accom-

v….८ .

paniment as did the rest of the musicians.
Considered the best and one of the most
dramatic scenes in the entire Kathakali
repertoire, the artistes enthralled audiences,
performing to a full house, the weather
being so right for open air performances in
the Centre ’3 Fountain Lawns. The dance drama
takes off from the well-known scene of the
game of dice and the encounter between the
Pandavas and Kauravas.
The dancers fullfilled all vital aspects of

the form ~ concentration, skill and agility,
taken from the ancient martial art of Ker—
ala, Kalaripayattu, the story is enacted purelyby hand movements or mudras, facial expres-

Only one of the nine works is made
in fiberglass, the other eight in patinated bronze. Not only is her capturing the
instantwonderfully expressive and sensitive,
the nature and tone of the patina breaks the
grim tones of bronze, the pastel shades way

more suitable for children.
Margotin examines what childhood
should be ~ playing, skipping rope, splashing on a puddle, blowing bubbles, or savouring ice cream, throwing a tantrum, or dazed
after a nap, each expression and article ,_
depicted with great ﬁnesse.
A chemical engineer and business admin- .
istratorby training, Margotin is largely a selftaught artist who works in 3 D.
Also being sold are hot refreshments at
the open Café on the lawns!
r '

gagtﬂir" 'W’" ’ ३"

