Author's Note

[1.11-15 play (called in Marathi original Andhar Yatra—A Passage to Darkness) is about
Vasundhara, an attractive, civilised, sophisticated and accomplished woman and the
four men in her life. She was once married to Parikshit, a petty entrepreneur who saw
some 'exchange value' in Vasundhara’s handsomeness and used it to extract some

licenses, grants and the like from a minister, Daulatrao Rajemane. Vasundhara leaves
Parikshit but in the process discovers the human being in Daulatrao. Her experience of
married life with Parikshit has been so devastating that she has made up her mind not
to marry again. She believes in leading an ’independent’ life, ’parallel’ to others. While

teaching Sanskrit in a local university she gets emotionally and physically involved
with a Marxist Professor, Shreepad. She also discovers a 'radical' student leader,

Ashwath, whom she dreams of grooming as her son.
The action which provides the background to the play is set on the border of
Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. In spite of her best efforts to persuade him against it,
Ashwath gets involved in the radical politics of that region. A doctor from the
'I‘elengana region is killed. Ashwath decides to go there to organise protest against what
clearly was a police killing. The doctor was killed obviously for his 'wrong' politics.
Shreepad tries to persuade him not to go, as in his view, the radicals, simply unrnindful
of the repressive power of the modern state, are themselves getting killed because of
their adventurism. 'You must retreat when the enemy advances', Shreepad quotes Mac

to Ashwath. Vasundhara finds Ashwath’s radical and even the more moderate
enterprise of Shreepad futile. She appeals to Ashwath not to go. In a life which has been
one long story of pain and separation she does not wish to lose Ashwath. A
traditionalist of a kind, Ashwath and his future are her only hope. Ashwath goes
nevertheless and inevitably gets killed in a police encounter. Daulatrao tries and uses
his politics to ’save’ Ashwath but he does not succeed. All that he achieves is to

forewarn Vasundhara about the tragic fate that is awaiting Ashwath and possibly
Shreepad. They are the modern Abhirnanyus entering a modern Chakravyuha.
Shreepad is hurt by Ashwath’s death and with Vasundhara’s almost existential
concurrence, decides to throw in his lot with Ashwath. He is promptly arrested by the
police on the obviously trumped-up charges of murdering one of the ’radicals’ there.
The world, and indeed all hope, have finally ended for Vasundhara. Her attempts
at an independent, parallel living have come to nought. At one level Vasundhara also
embodies the dilemma of our civilisation. At another level she embodies the dilemmas
of the fragmented Left movement in this country wherein everyone lives independently
and parallelly of everyone else. Everyone concerned is keen to walk into a Chakravyuha
and turn the dilemma of the radicals and leftists into one long passage to darkness.
Vasundhara’s tragedy is in one sense both the past and the present of this society. As an
author I can only hope that it is not its future.
(31’. DESHPANDE

' श्या ० - श्न? १

