THE ENVIRONMENT AND YOU

A

is for Action that you can do. By the time you read this sentence eight acres of forests

will have disappeared forever so use paper carefully-by writing on both sides of a page
and using the back of old bills to write on you, can reduce wastage by 50‘70 Avoid using
paper napkins and remember recycled paper notebooks are available on your ration

card.

‘ '

is for the Beauty without Cruelty’ campaign, whicheducates people about how cruelly

animals are persecuted for the beauty and fashion industry. Did you know for instance
how many deer are kllled to make a single bottle of musk perfume ? or the cruel way in t
which snakes and crocodiles are skinned to make handbags and wallets ?

is for the Chipko Movement, which‘ comes from the word CH IPKANA to STICK’.

It

was formed by the hill people to stop the cutiing of the beautiful forest which they and
we need to survive.

Forests give us fresh air to breathe and hold the soil together,

Trees in the mountains mean water in India’s rivers.

is for Delhi, that is fast becoming a desert

10,000 tonnes of dust enter Delhi daily,-

resulting in a drop in the moisture level of the air.
seven of every ten diseases are caused by this.

Delhi’s water is not clean either

How can you help ? By talking about

the issue, organising yourselves into neighourhood groups to protest against any
anti environment action,

is for World Wildlife Fund, established in 1969 with two objectives of safeguarding
and restoring the country’s natural environment: plants, animals, forests, air, water,
soil, landscape and other natural resources - WWF, India Finances specific projects,
promotes conservation education, creates public awareness and raises funds to support
these activities.

stands for those animals whose very lives are endangered, and who may soon comp-

letely disappear.

These include the pygmy hog (in India and Bhutan), the orinoco

crocodile, the Madagascar land tortoise and several types of rhinoceros among others,

