B.

Specific Projects proposed by the candidates.

Preference will be given to projects not

covered by scholarships from other institutes and which have a relevance to the Indian
situation,

0 Independent self-directed research or projects, to be carried out partially or entirely
abroad. Candidates are expected to provide details of proposed programmes.
0 Special training over a given period for research, study or professional improvement,
to be carried out at leading institutions abroad. Evidence of agreements With, and
admission to, such institutions is required.

SELECTION

CR I TER I A

The Selection Committee is responsible for selecting candidates, and for advising, if necessary, the most suitable courses. Criteria are :
. Potential and motivation of the candidate.
The candidate must show enterprise and the capacity to make an impact on one’s
environment; the drive and energy to transform ideas and experience into reality; and
the ability to take full advantage of all aspects of one's experience abroad.
0 Achievement and evidence of initiative.
Candidate must provide evidence of initiative and achievement.

They must show that

they have already played a prominent role in some field such as the arts, business,
communication, debating, journalism, social work, spot, technology or the theatre.
(These fields need not necessarily be related to the proposed course). Age and Opportunities available would be taken into consideration.

८ O Suitability of preposed course

The lnlaks Scholarship must be geared
would be evaluated on the appropriatensss
gramme abroad and its practical impact on
Candidates would have to give reasons for
or training in India.

to the requirements of the candidate; who
of the proposed courses of study or prohis career.
going abroad rather than pursuing studies

PROCEDURES A N D T E N U R E
Scholarship are open to Indian citizens who hold good degrees from a recogni
sed Indian

University and are resident in India. They must be under 28 years of age on the date
of their
application, and single. Marriage during the scholarship period is
not permitted.

The Selection Procedure is made on the basis of written applications and is followed
by a
number of personal interviews.

