Application forms are obtainable between July and August each year from : I NLAKS SCHO-

LARSHIPS, PO BOX 2108, DELHI-110007. They should be completed and retnrned' only
between 1st July and 31st August and should include:
0

Evidence of age.

0

Evidence of admission to a university or course if other than Oxford, Cambridge, London
School of Economics, Imperial College or Harvard Law School.

Q

Alternatively, in the case of specific project, full details of proposed project must be
submitted.

0

Candidates for courses in Architecture, Fine Arts and related subjects must submit
nine photographs or colour transparencies of recent creative work giving the size of'the
orininal, the materials used and date completed, These would be returned to the
candidates.

6

Evidence of any kinc which a candidate feels will illustrate his abilities.

0

Two stamped self—addressed envelopes (4” x 9”).

Applications are assessed in September and October each year.

I
Personal interviews usually

take place in October in Bengalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, and in other places when necessary. The final interviews take place in December in Delhi.

The Scholarships cover return travel, tution feesxand adequate living expenses for the period
granted. Tenure of other scholarships, teaching assistantships or part time jobs are permitted, and, if obtained befere the application, will be regarded by the Selection Committee as a
positive factor when assessing candidates.

Inlaks Scholarships are awarded for one or two years only. No three pear scholarships are
g i ve n .

BA C K G R O U N D
The Foundation was set up in 1976 and is an approved charity in tne UK and in the USA
according to the respective laws. It operates from Delhi and London. The principal activity
of the Foundation is to provide scholarships to young Indians to go abroad. Up to now the
Foundation has granted 120 scholarships.
The Foundation has agreements for admission with the following institutions :—

Cambridge: Churchill College, Clare College, Trinity Hall.
Oxford

: Balliol College, New College, St. Anne's College, St. Edmund Hall, Trinity College.

