MUSIC

THEATRE WORKSHOP

Over the past seven years, the Music Theatre Workshop has come to be known as
almost an alternative educational experience in theatre and music for children. Our emphasis
has been on the creation of original musicals, researched and written almost entirely by
children, that powerfully reflect the reality of life around us.

Kids'tuf, created by the MTW members along with Barry John and Param Vir was our
first original musrcal. lt evolved out of an eight month long period of research, discussion
and information and looked at the pressures on young people from school, family and society.

Besura Desh was a parable reflecting the inherent contradictions in contemporary Indian
society, and explaining how most of the ecological issues confronting us today are generated

by the power elite. Set in an imaginary country that is ruled by a council of the Free (Where
freedom is available for sale!), the play follows the future of two street entertainers who
finally find tribal support to overthrow the existing government. Inspired by the Chipko
movement among others, the play delighted Delhi audience in 1982.
‘Sixteen Stuck Still Running’ was our next original musical created after intensive collabo—

of an adolescent
ration with Sanjivini, the society for mental health. It dealt with the problem
human, the play
caught between childhood and adulthood, peers and family. Sensitive and
by an hour long
reached out to various different Delhi schools, where the show was followed

discussion on the problem of growing up conducted by Sanjivini and MTW members.
for us. Avoiding the form
In 1984 came ’Fall Out‘ on the implication of the nuclear issue
s of a nuclear winter, the musical
of either intellectual debate or the depiction of the horror
high achiever at school to victim
followed the disintegration of its anti—hero Abhimanyu, from
play from the finding of a U234 contaof his own creation : the bomb. All the events in the

old were based on actual events.
iner in a junkyard to the building of a bomb by a 17 year

t culture of our times, whether
For us the bomb was merely a symbol of the prevailing violen
destructive competition in the
it be in the marketing of ‘Superguns’ as toys for kids, self
adults in the play.
school system, or the armament dealing world of

nunalisrn in India from the national
Azaadi came next, a close book at the genesis of cornr
deeply disturbed several workshop partici—
movement onwards. As the 84 riots in Delhi had
of a
ss our concerns.
pants, we felt the need to explore and expre

The play took the form

s, culminating in a song which asked whether
collage juxtaposing contemporary and past event
The separation of ‘Us’ from ‘Them‘, political
the freedom struggle was over or just beginning.
cted in a production that deeply disturbed its
interference, communal history were all refle
ction used puppets, pad painting with slogan
audience. Performed in an arena style-the produ

.
Writing and stylized movement to dramatic effect

