’,

] _

w > ll
Other than these original musicals, adaptations have also been performed by us. ‘Demons
of Bara Tooti' was an adaptation of Denise Cofeys’ ‘The Incredible Vanishing with original lyrics
and music, and played to audiences in the age group 8-12. Gogol’s perennial favourite,

‘Government Inspector’ was transformed by us into an hour long musical.

This evening's

production of ‘Sher Nikal Kar Bhaga’ is once again an adaptation from the brilliant original
‘One Cool Cat’ by John Lange. For the first time the MTW has experimented with the use
of regional language flavours in Hindi. The songs and music are entirely original and largely

created by MTW members.

Several of the performers this evening are on the stage for the ‘

first time, the older MTW members being ivolved with the production, design and administration areas of the. play.
Other than the production of large scale musicals, both original and adaptations, the
MTW has also performed on a smaller scale. Three evenings of one act plays, directed and
produced entirely by MTW, have been done so far. Also two evenings of music performances
have been held. We from in the future to produce more such work on a smaller scale.
The MTW is a regular training programme in the arts for young peOple in the age group

9.

We meet regularly every Sunday from 10 am. to 1 pm. at 3-41, Nizamuddin East.

The

juniors (9—15 yrs) who you see on stage this evening have a programme which includes
theatre and improvisational work, music and movement, music composition and singing, play '

and poetry reading and art work.

The seniors (16) other than the above also work more on

music appreciation, creative writing, play analysis and direction etc. The MTW is an independent registered society, and is not affiliated to any other institution.

Over the past few years, with the assistance of INLAKS and ICCR, the MTW has supported scholarships for several of its members who are interested in making a career in the
arts. Among others Praveen Swami, Saam Trivedi and Shailen Tuli (composer of the
music this evening) have had the opportunity of training at the best British Music schools fog»
periods ranging from a few months to two years. We from in the future to help find similar
support in the field of theatre and television for talented workshop members.

Our audience policy has also been slightly different to that of others in Delhi. Rathé
than only reaching out to the public school child, the MTW has felt the need to includ
marginalized groups.

We are extremely happy therefore that this production will not only b;

seen by government and public school children, but also by children from Mobile Creches
Ankur and Spastics Society of India.

l*

