'रै
. ‘ 4
" AK l N G A DIFFERENCE

८३५3

. N J /,.r_’1

/4

NYC street art takes a stand for human rights in Iran
Murals draw attention to a journalist's
campaign for press freedOm in the nation
ASSOCIATED PRESS
New Ybﬁepgﬁfm 22आँ

Bahari, whose story was

told in Stewart's ﬁlm Rosewo-

A woman in a head scarf, 27

ter, hopes the art will attract

feet high, gazes piercineg
from the side of a Brooklyn
brownstone. A ﬂock of spraypainted birds breaks free
from shackles on a Manhattan
building. A Harlem mural
shows a giant teal gazelle
against a black background,
barren trees and a peacock
leather.
They are among about a
half—dozen murals painted
around New York City and jersey City, New jersey. to draw attention to journalist Maziar
Bahari’s campaign for press
freedom and educational access in Iran, where he spent 118
days in a jail after an appearance on The Daily Show with
1071 Stewart.

the attention of diplomats attending the UN General Asl
sernbly and spark a conversation about human rights. He
has founded a non-proﬁt
group, Not A Crime. to focus
on journalism and education
for lran’s largest religious minority, the Baha’i, a group that
believes in one God and emphasizes that humans are
equal and diversity should be
cherished.
“We want to create a discourse in the city so when
world leaders, different delegates corneto New York in September, at least some of them
L
- ,,
will talk aboutthe situation of '
the Baha'is in Iran, some of Argentine artist Marina Zumi paint5 a Iarge gazelle mural on the
them will talk about the jour- side ofa New York buildingAP

nalists in Iran," Bahari said.
Bahari was working for
Newsweek magazine in june
2009 when Iran's Revolutionary Guards took him from his
mother’s home in Tehran on
espionage charges based on
video of him joking with a
Daily Show correspondent
about being a spy. Duringfour
months in Tehran’s Evin prison, he was beaten, held in soli.tary conﬁnement and suffered psychological torture,
he said.
With more than 30 imprisoned journalists, lran is second onlyto China in jailing reporters, according tq the
Committee to Protect journal-

ists. Cases like those of Bahari
and jason Rezaian a Washington Post reporter held in Evin
prison for over a year on espionage charges have spotlighted the issue.
The Brooklyn mural isa likeness of Atena Farghadani, an

artist and activist serving a 12year sentence in Iran for creating a cartoon that criticized a

law limiting women’s access
to birth control. The mural,
created by artist Faith47,
shows her without a mouth.
Ron English is painting a
large, oﬂicial-looldng warning suggesting that photograi
phy is not ' permitted. Street
art is a perfect vehicle for delivering such political messages, he said— “Everybody experiences it." Argentine artist
Marina Zumi, who created the
Harlem mural. said she hopes
the work sparks conversations about social justice.
Passer-by Parris Douglas
was drawn to the gazelle Zumi
was painting. “I feel like this is
liberating," he said after asking Zumi what prompted the
mural. “It's the fact we’re allowed to express how we feel
with anyone saying or telling
us what we can and can't do."

