Ek Aur Bhagwadujjukyum

A Contemporanisation

India has lost and gained much in the historical process. The transition from colonialism to
independence should have produced a flourishing culture seeking to re-establish its identity.

Unfortunately, much of what is being done in the name of culture is steeped in a time bound tradition or has no roots at all. The only surviving tradition of the clasical theatre
has not changed in the last one thousand years. There are a few good playwrights who
are striving to create a popular, living theatre, but their number is limited,

It becomes

imperative, therefore to go back to our traditions and seek to establish a theatre, not
only relevant to our times and society but one which is readily understandable to our
audiences.

There is a sad lack of serious experimentation with traditional material - this is mostly due
to a feeling that our tradition is 'Sacred' and cannot or should not be changed, or, a

feeling that the traditional theatre did not deal with problems that the modern theatre
attempts to tackle and that it connot have any meaning for us.

It is for this latter reason that we must strive to illustrate the validity of the traditional form.
There are two

ways of doing this,

One is to use the material and themes of the classical

plys in order to show that the traditional theatre did in actual fact rel-ate to the society of
its times

Secondly we may use its method and style in relation to modern themes.

The question of traditional style and form is a very controversial one.

Thus, in 'Ek Aur

Bhagwadtjjukyam’ we have chosen to experiment with the theme of the play.

The idea

being, not to produce the play in its given form and experiment with the style, but to
rewrite it as Bodhayan may have written if he had been living in the twentieth century.

This has literally meant a literal transformation of the text.

We have taken the problems

that were dealt with in the text and point by point related them to contemporary society.

N’O N - GROUP

