A BOUT 0U R SELVES
The Parvatiya Kala Kendra, a representative organisation of Kumaon and
Garhwal hills, was established in 1968. Its ﬁrst programme of folk songs and
dances of Uttarakhand was presented in 1969 in the presence of late Smt. Indira _
Gandhi, the then Prime Minister. Since then, Parvatiya Kala Kendra has been
engaged in the task of preserving and popularising the folk culture of Uttarakhand, contributing in its own way to India’s national culture.
The ‘Kendra’ can boast of an impressive record during the last ﬁve years.
Its major production ‘Rajula Malushahi’, staged at the Karnani auditorium in
February 1980 and, following persistent public demand, again from May 19 to
25, was considered a landmark. That was followed by Gangnath, a ritualistic
folk tale, in 1981. ‘Ajua Bafaul’, a patriotic ballad was staged in 1982. In 1984,
Mahabharata, based on the famous Pandav ‘jagar’ style of Garhwal, was presented in Hindi. Parvatiya Kala Kendra’s latest production ‘Rasik Ramola’,

was staged at the AIFACS Hall on October 7 & 8 in 1985.

All these produc-

tions have been part of our commitment to present on the contemporary stage
the rich heritage of folk ballads and folk tales sung for centuries in the central

Himalayan region.

‘

On the basis of the theatrical experience acquired in transforming these
ballads into operatic varsions, Parvatiya Kala Kendra has been moving in the

direction of laying a foundation of a distinct theatre of Uttarakhand.

This

could also possibly be the only way to save these ballads from extinction. The
Kendra has been trying to forge a link between the ballad singers of Uttarakhand

and the modern generation of Kumaonis and Garhwalis dwelling in big cities
and towns elsewhere in the country.

By passing this art on to the boys and

girls who participate in these presentations and also to those who watch them,
the Kendra hopes to be able to manage to preserve the cultural wealth of Uttarakhand. The task is difﬁcult and needs considerable ﬁnancial support but the

goal is nonetheless, quite inspiring.

It is this inspiration alone that has. kept

the Kendra’s team going for several years, despite heavy odds.
Parvatiya Kala Kendra has also been engaged in yet another project :

Presentation of Ramlila in Uttarakhand style.

This form of Ramlila has unique

features, inasmuch as it blends meticulously the classical, folk and theatrical
forms of the narration with the verses of Tulsidas, giving the whole presentation
a colloquial dimension, without compromising on the depth and versatility of the

poetry of Ramcharitmanas, the Uttarakhand Ramlila borrows generously from
Urdu, Hindi, Avadhi and Hindustani.

Two episodes from the Ramlila—‘Ram

