J'EETU BAGDWAL : A SYNOPSIS
Vishwa Mohan Badola

Sung through centuries all over Garhwal, the ballad of Jeetu Bagdwal has
undergone, quite understandably so, numerous changes in its story-line. In the
absence of any authentic chronicle of Jeetu‘s life, it is diﬂicult to sift the
historical from the romantic in the various versions now available. Yet what
has remained intact in all the versions, is the basic tenor and temperament of
the episode. i e., Jeetu’s unﬂinching love for the land where he lived and his
rejection of heaven as an alternative to or a betterment over the earth.
Besides, some versions talk very strongly about Jeetu’s decision to distribute
all his holdings to his people. If that were true, it is amazing that someone

in the 14th century (circa) should be visualising a “people’s raj” when the
concept of democracy had not even emerged in the west.
The production of “Jeetu Bagdwal”, which you are about to witness now,

relies heavilly on these versions not because they suited our artistic approach.
but because they appeared to be the most plausible ones.
The opera opens with villagers from what was once Bagudi, the freedom of
Jeetu, celebrating the harvesting season. In the midst of the festivities, the

ghost of Jeetu appears on the scene and narrates the reasons leading to his sad
demise centuries ago.

From here, the opera takes off in ﬂash back.

Jeetu is extremely worried over the fact that while it has always been
raising everywhere around, his ﬁelds have remained dry; nor has he been able

to carve out a canal from Bhagirathi. A village elder tells Jeetu that all this is
because of a tyrant “masan” who has been frustrating all efforts to bring

prosperity to Bagudi.

Jeetu vows to take care of the “Masan”, overpowers

ng
him and orders him to construct a canal. While his villagers are celebrati
among the
the event, Jeetu announces his intention to distribute his land
earth
mother
the
villagers and exorts them to take maximum advantage from

l
but warns them, at the same time, to refrain from disturbing the ecologica
३
'
balance of the area.
It is time now to begin sowing the ﬁelds of Bagudi and the family purohit
does
is mandated to ﬁnd out an auspicious day for the purpose. The purohit

Sobhini,
so but also advises that the ﬁrst sappling of paddy must be sown by
to bring
Bagudi
Jeetu’s sister married off to a distant place. Jeetu leaves
experiencing bad
Shobhini, ignoring his mother’s warnings that she had been
omens and, as such, should put off his departure.

