Proﬁtability Through Performance
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd.
Backed by an outstanding track record in hydro—power devein
lopment ...... NHPC is heading for still higher performance levels
this area of vast potential.
From a meagre 1,700 MW in 1950, India’s installed power
generation capacity has shot upto 47,000 MW by March 1 986.
The power deficit, however, is still large...and growing. By the
close of this century, the total installed capacity is planned to
rise dramatically to 1 ,40,000 l\/lW-of which hydro—povver will
have a significant 350/O share.
The Key to Growth
With demand for power fast increasing, hydro—power has
acquired paramount importance, thanks to its high economic
Viability and vast potential of 1 ,00,000 MW—of which only 15%
has so far been exploited. Rapid hydro—power development is
thus the key to accelerated power growth ..... and the use of latest
technology Will help shorten substantially the gestation of hydropower projects.
NHPC : Outstanding Performance
Prominent in the hydro-power sector is NH PC-wh ich, in just ten
years, has built up an impressive track record : 3 projects
commission, 5 under construction, 8 on the anvil and many more
under investigation. Employing the latest in technology,
construction methods equipment and management systems...

N H PC has achieved remarkable results and today has projects in
hand involving investment of over Rs. 3000 crores.
NH PC has ma inta inedexceptiona lly high standards in
performance—and profitability. With a capacity utilisation of
80% the Corporation earned a gross profit of Rs. 36 crores in
1 9 8 5—86 . Profitls expected to rise to Rs. 40 crores in
,1986-87...and still higher in the coming years.
Backing this performance is a professional, result—oriented team
which has total capability In the fields of investigation, research
development, construction, operation and maintenance of
I
hydro-power stations. . .and complete expertise covering El--IV
transmission and sub-stations.
A Confident Future
With an impressive. project
line-up . NHPC looks confidentl
'
_
to t
future. And to gu1dmg the country towards an era of self:
he
suffucnency_1n power. . .through the clean, pollution-free renewable
and perennial power potential of water.
'

NHPC Generating power..-.profits...prosperity.
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd

(A Government of India Enter rise
Regd. Office : Hemkunt Tower, 98, llilehrZi Place
New Delhi-110 019.

