About four years ago a few of us started
our education in theatre under the guidance of
Smt Tripti Mitra. We, who were enthusiastic
about drama and seriously wanted to learn about
theatre, came to her for prOper training. She.
noting our enthusiasm agreed to give us lessons
on drama. Initially this did not begin as an institution. But with the increase in the number
of the students it took the shape of an academic
school. We took the name "Aarabddha".
At first teaching proceeded through recita-

tion, voice projection and voice modulation.
Then our Principal decided that she would give
us an . overall education in the theatre ( bath
verbal and non-verbal language of the body )
through working on a "Classic"- hence we started
on "RA‘KTAKARABI". First we presented a
play-reading. Upon wettest from the intellectual
public we put “RAKTAKARABI” on stage on
14-84. And we continued with many more
pertorrtenoes as it was being highly acclaimed
and praised by the publicat-large
Simultaneously classes were being taken by Sarbasri
Tapas Sen (lighting), Khaled Chowdhury (Set
decor and roots of theatre) Jogesh Dutta (mime)
and Tar-it Bhattach'arya (music) . We have also
staged 'Hazar Churasheer Mae" based on
Mahasweta Devi‘s novel and organised by Nandikaar on June 30 1984 Atter this we started work
on a lyrical drama of Tagore (“Grihaprabesh”)
and we also staged "Durasha” based on
Rabindranath's short story.
On 25th Jan '86 we organised a programme
celebrating the reverred memory of Maharshi
Manoranian Bhattacharya, one of the originators
and leaders of the modern theatre movement in
Bengal. Mrs Saraiubala Devi, Mr Debnarayan
Gupta, Mrs. Tripti Mitra reminesced about the
Maharshion the occasion. The students then
read out ‘ Chakrabyuha“ a play by Manoranjan
Bhattacharya and most apprOpriately too. as we
were then studying blank-verse in the theatre.
in this time we have also been able to

bring out two journals on drama.
Our work is progressing with disciplined
enthusiasm, surely and strongly. Currently we
are about 25 students in number. We do our
work in Mrs Mitra's one small room kept aside
for this purpose. There is hardly any space here
Hence our rehearsal space
for sets or furniture
Yet we continue undaunted
is very limited
because we love and reSpect our work and our

teacher. We have been helped, in our moments
of need, directly and indirectly by many. We are
most grateful to them. And we offer you our
beloved audience here our hearty and cordial
greetings today.

