DRAUPADI—Through My Eyes

I) erceptions are highly subjective, because they emanate from an individual
point of View. They are coloured by psychology and physicality of the
perceiver. Thus, Draupadi was seen through Vyasa’s eyes and described through
the prismatic perceptions of the Pandavas, the Kauravas and Krishna. Except
Krishna, all men saw her in parts; not the totality of her. This is the eternal

paradox of the Fullness of Being like Krishna and Draupadi whose essence eludes
most and can only be experienced in parts. She is Prakrz'ti, the cosmic principle
of creation and Dissolution. She is Kali, the dark’ goddess who plays with Time,
creating it and devouring it. She is the concept of karma (action) incarnate;
Draupadi is every woman. I have been her companion since my childhood. She
fascinated me all along my adolescence and youth. Then she began to occupy
centre-stage in my psyche and since past five years demanded abhivyakti.
I am looking at Draupadi from inside out—not the other way. All the narratives
and descriptions about her do not tell me about those poignant moments, and there
were many, in her life when she must have reacted sharply, forcefully or shyly,
must have made her stand clear to one and all and maintained her dignity and
self-respect in the face of unspeakable outrages against her person.
I am thinking of the new bride—-shy, playful, young and beautiful, dreamy
perhaps, looking forward to a warm, loving embraces from the handsome, manly
Arjuna whom she garlanded at the swayamvam (as she was. not free to choose her
husband according to her will as in the case of Rukmini or Indurnati but like Sita
bound to marry the man who would match up to the difficult conditions set by
her father. This was not swayamvam in the true sense). Following him out of the
royal palace and through the city to the far away hut of a potter where the five
brothers and mother Kunti are staying incognito, she is confronted by a strange
and rude shock as a welcome to her new home. In response to Arjuna’s gleeful
announcement, “See, what I have brought today”, Mother replies, "Distribute it

equally among you.” This is said from inside the hut and we are told by Vyasa
and other commentators that as Kunti came out and saw Draupadi and Arjuna
with the victory-garland around his neck, she regretted her words. ' Yet as her words

