and repercussions over centuries; a shameful event of cosmic dimensions. The

denudation of Earth—Nature—Prakriti—Draupadi—causes holocausts to this day.
Today, our newspapers invariably carry stories of similar shameful acts in Bihar,
U.P., Haryana, Punjab, MP. and other states. Woman is used and abused, often
to settle petty scores between clans and families. So, what has changed? Are our
claims to being a progressive and humanistic society tenable?
There are a myriad of dimensions to the perSona and story of Draupadi. She
is larger than life yet very much a ripple on the river of life. She reﬂects the universal
womanhood—proud, digniﬁed, unbending, rnagnanimous, articulate and uncomprornising.
I stood at the point in my life and career when I was ready to take a quantum
leap deeper within myself and work out a significant change in my style of working
and my dancing. Natya comprises dance, music and theatre—the only tradition that
remained to be tried out. So, I took the initiative to propose to Amal Allana whose
plays like ’Mahabhoj’ and ’Himmatmai’ are milestones in the history of Indian theatre
to join hands to create something different, i.e. dance in theatre. I started front the
premise of delight in our work of exploration, trials, search and deeper understanding
of characters, situations as well as elements of theatre and dance that could coalesce

as a unity. I have not for a moment been worried at the prospect of success or
failure. Those terms are not applicable here for the simple reason that the journey
is always more rewarding than the destination and in a case like this when the
goal is to experience the joy of unravelling the mysterious processes of creativity
and the delight of getting to know those magnificent yet very human characters,
the whole exercise becomes meditative.
I am deeply indebted to several scholars, who are also friends, for their
enthusiastic and consistent support in the form of discussions. For Amal Allana I
reserve my unstinted admiration. Her professionalism and deep involvement in the
project from the very beginning, her detailed and careful direction have taught me
things about theatre that might have remained hidden otherwise.
Nissar Allana’s sense of aesthetics, design and lighting is truly enviable. I am
grateful to him for his total involvement in the production. Neelabh was an example
of patient and painstaking script-writer who attended to the script six times to
accommodate all my views on the characters of Mahabharata and my understanding
of the situations. His own interpretation and study is reflected in the use of language
and idiom.
To Manohar Singh my deep gratitude for altering his film schedules to suit
our time-table and to have stayed back to help out with various unforeseen exigencies
back-stage. All the musicians and vocalists like Shubha Mudgal and Rajagopal were

