DRAUPADT

rII-1 he story of the Mahabharata centres around the simple and complex,
straight and circuitous patterns of human relationships, and most centrally
those between male and female.
“In the beginnning the world was only the Absolute in the shape of a
Person. Looking around, it saw nothing other than the self. 71111] then it said,

‘I am.’ From this arose the name ‘I’.....But this Person was afraid because
one who is alone is afraid. This one thought to itself, since there is nothing
else than myself, of what am I afraid?’ It is true that it is from a second
that fear arises; but it is also certain that the one who is alone has no delight.
It desires a second.....lt was so big and heavy that it fell and broke in two.
and from that arose the feminine and masculine. Therefore the body is one
half of oneself, like one of the two halves of split pea, and the space is filled
by the feminine," says Brhaddranyaka Upanisada.
The space of the Mahabharata is filled by many female characters, but
it is Draupadi who holds centre stage. Her character reveals the many
dimensions of feminine independence. As the Prakrti she has to bloom in
relation to the Paﬁcha Mahdbhﬁtasuthe five Pandavas. If one of them is missing

Prakrti is incomplete. Although Vyasa resorts to Kunti’s peculiar blessing as
the cause of this unusual social arrangement, for Draupadi the feminine or
Malaprakrti of the Mahﬂbhdrata, it is natural.
Draupadi
confident enough to choose her love as her husband,
despite the risk :imrolved in hitting the eye of the fish roving overhead, but
her mother—in-laws unusual blessing must have disturbed her life and her
romance. But, with the very significant quality of the feminine, she accepted
the situation and made it work for her, so she was not the servant of the
five husbands, but they were competing to be her servant.
Draupadi accepted the responsibilities that went with the many relationships in her very full life. She was a loving wife, and a caring mother and
grandmother. She saved her family from disgrace by satisfying the hunger
of ten thousand mendicants led by the irrepressible Durvasa. As counsellor

