THE TRADITION OF SOLO DRAMATIC DANCING

N atya interpreted at a general plane refers to theatre as a whole. The
specific and technical meaning of natya is ’dramatic dancing’. The Indian
art dances have three basic kinds of dance movements, i.e. nritta, rzrz’tya, and
natya. Nritta is non-narrative and abstract dancing. Some translate nritta as
’pure dance’. I am averse to this expression because it suggests that the
expressional dance is ’impure’! Both nritya and natya are expressional, but while
the former is poetic, the latter is dramatic. In Izritya most of the words sung
are mimed, which gives a rare poetic depth to the performance and an evocative
character. In natya the words are not mimed and the import and emotive content
of a group of words may be one or more sentences. All the three kinds of
dancing can be presented both in solo and in group format. In Manipuri and
Kathakali the presentation is invariably in group format, if performed strictly
according to the tradition. The presentation of either of the three kinds of
dancing in Odissi, Bharatanatyam, and Kathak is traditionally solo.
The expressional numbers performed in any style of art dances ingeniously
blend the poetic and the dramatic elements. In all the sancharz' passages the
dramatic or natya elements dominate. In fact, the two kinds are not divorced
from each other but complementary. Solo natya has two traditional streams,
one is predominantly theatre and the other unmistakably dance. The Natyashastm
discusses ten kinds of theatrical presentations called roopaka-s. Among them one
is bhana which is performed solo. Bhana may or may not use dance elements
in its presentation. But natya can not be performed without dance elements
In the performing art traditions of the country a few are presented as solo natya
such as, nangz'ar—koothu and chakiar-koothu of Kerala. They are performed solo
and are dramatic dancing and should not be confused with bhana. They are
out and out solo rzatya traditions and are intimately connected with koodz'attam,
the exalted Sanskrit theatre tradition. In fact, koodz'attam is the only surviving
Sanskrit theatre that closely follows the Natyashastm.
The chakz’aars and the nambiars have kept this form of theatre alive for
centuries. For koodz‘attam all actors come from the chakiar community and
musicians and actresses from the nambz’ar community. A nambz’ar community

