woman is called nangiar. When an actress of the koodiattam theatre performs

solo natya throughout, it is called narzgiar-koothu. Similarly, when an actor of
the theatre presents a solo performance, it is called chakiar—koothu. When they
perform together it is koodiattam which literally means ’performing together’
Although the tradition of 'narzgz'ar-koothu is on the lowest rung of the ladder,
fortunately it still survives in Kerala. Efforts are being made to revive the
tradition.
Thus Sonal Mansingh’s ’Draupadi’, a solo natya, is an attempt to revive
a rare aspect of our performing art tradition. By choosing a mythological
character Draupadi, the heroine of Mahabharata, she has adhered to the aesthetic

principle of our performing art tradition.
Abhinavagupta the Great in the sixth chapter of his Abhz'naUa—bharati, a
commendable commentary on the Natyashastra, has categorically stated that for
the right kind of rasa-m'shpatti, i.e. deeper experience of aesthetic relish, one
should not select a theme that is social or historical. There is a reason behind
it. The Indian art aims to present a taste of life in a majestic manner so that
it is rightly comprehended in its entirety. Life is nothing but a chain of feelings
which need to be tasted again and again. Some feelings, however, like disgust
can be experienced but none will like to taste it. To make it worthy of being
tasted it has to be properly prepared like a dish. None will like to taste a
karela (bitter gourd) when raw. But as a dish it becomes palatable, because
the culinary art has converted the loukika (real/raw) taste of the karela into an
aloukika (alienated) taste which is acceptable. According to Indian aesthetics, the
performing art must convert the loukz'ka taste of feelings into aloukz'ka, so that
the intellect does not reject it. Such experience adds meaning to life.
Therefore, in Indian performing arts, realizm (loukz'kata) does not enjoy a
high status. Realizm is considered less suitable for serious presentations; that
is why all our great epics and dramas hay e mythological or legendary themes
and not social or historical ones.
The difference is same as between myth {toukz’ka) and fiction (aloukika).

Writing fiction is comparatively easy. To be a powerful myth-maker one has
to be a genius. All serious modern thinkers, right from Freud to Joseph
Carnpbel, have ascertained that myth profoundly influences human life, and
Indian thinkers have given much more importance to myth than history. History
talks of things past, myth talks simultaneously of things past, present and future.
Therefore, Draupadi is not a woman of the past like Cleopatra. Draupadi was,

she is and she will rejuvenate till Time fails.
In this presentation, Sonal has let her body and talent out to Draupadi
through the mediation of Amal Allana.
Iiwan Pani

