D I RE CT OR’ S NOTE

'I" 0 go beyond the literal and extend performance language to become more
acutely expressive of that lirninal world which lies between sleep and
waking, a world in which we experience most intensely, is the raison d’étre
which has initiated this experiment. The attempt has been to engage in a dialogue
where the boundaries that essentially divide theatre from dance can be explored.
This work has compelled both Sonal and myself to once again discover those
elements that essentially constitute dance and theatre, see how they differ, and
then using the ‘expressive power of both, reassemble them in perhaps new
combinations.
Sonal Mansingh is a classical dancer, and one of the things that has become
most clear to me during this process of work with her—is that in classical dance
the act of communicating is so strongly internalized, turned inward, to the extent
that the dancer’s stance is a meditative one. Dance per se is the act of meditating
and communicating with the Divine and not, as we do in the theatre, with live,

pulsating audience, whom we look at, speak to and reach out towards. This to
me is a fundamental point of divergence between both idioms. In terms of theatrical
expression classical Indian dance would perhaps come closest in this sense to the
Noh drama of Japan. It is the basic stance adopted by the dancer then, that has
a direct bearing on the use of all other elements of expression, be they movements,
use of space, rnudras, abhinaya, etc., all of them becoming internalized as a
consequence.
To retain this stance is crucial because without it dance would lose its essential
quality. Our problem then lay in how to exploit this stance in terms of theatre.

As a ﬁrst step from dance to theatre was the creation of the text which although
it has a narrative element, does not rely on a strong linear movement. Its flexibility,
in terms of dance expression, lies in its use of constantly shifting perspectives of
telling the tale from Ist to 3rd person and juxtaposes time past and present.

Another aspect of dance which is of singular interest to me is the ﬂuidity
with which the dancer can transform herself from one role to another. Here in our
production, we have attempted to emphasize this aspect, but in theatrical terms.

The transformation of Draupadi from fire to becoming a woman, to becoming Arjun,
and later Bheema as also when she knows the various aspects of herself as Krishna,
Panchali, Yagyaseni, Mahabharati etc. These transformations into Various roles have

