ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE CENTRE

r'I" he Centre for Indian Classical Dances looks back at the seventeen years
since its establishment with great satisfaction and takes pride in the fact
that despite limited financial resources it has set some trends and pioneered
a few projects. Their main objective being to promote Indian art dance and
music while retaining their traditional authenticity.
The Centre has set trends like that of the Festival of Young Dancers. The
first such festival was held in 1980 and then in 1981. Prior to this only the
Sangeet Natak Akademi at New Delhi held such a festival financed by the Indian
government. Now quite a few follow the example. The dancers who featured
in these festivals are now established. A few names are: Leela Samson, Bharati
Shivaji, Ram Mohan, Krishan Mohan and Bhaswati, Geeta Ramakrishnan and

Deepti Omcheri.
Another trend that the Centre has set is to organize intensive dance
appreciation courses. In 1980 the Centre organized a six-day dance appreciation
course covering three predominant solo styles: Bharatanatyam, Odissi, and
Kathak. Each style was given two days and eminent dancers and scholars like
Birju Maharaj, Sonal Mansingh, Iiwan Pani, Saswati Sen, and Puskala Gopal
conducted the workshop. A similar course was held in 1981 covering Kuchipudi,

Manipuri, and Kathakali, conducted by eminent gurus like Vempati Chjnna
Satyam, Singhajit Singh, and Sadanan Balakrishnan. The scope of the course
was expanded in 1992 to include the inter-relationship of dance and music. This
time only two styles, Kathak and Odissi, were taken up and each was covered
over three days in three sessions.
Holding a festival of art dances or a programme with a central theme
is yet another trend set by the Centre. In 1978, the dance festival concentrated
on the theme ’Krishna Legend in Classical Dance’. Each dance programme such
as, Bhaktidhara, Dwivarna, Shishira-shringara, lagannath-samkalpa, Devi—chandrika,

Madhurotsava, and Dharma-shringam, had a central theme. The aim being to
enhance some of the subtle as well as magnificent aspects of our dance and
music traditions.

