“theatre स्साहेंक्याड्डिहूँआंडेश्याड्डे

6

Crime thriller made
chee<yby humour ५
ne afternoon, as the
city‘s theatre buffs
gathered at an auditori५ um awaiting one of the most
celebrated detective stories of
the globe - Sherlock Holmes
in The Hound ofThe
Baskervz'lles byAadyam theatre — the curtain rose to a
rather unexpected scene.
Holmes, his aide Dr Watson
and Sir Henry Baskerville
were sitting in a steam sauna
wrapped in towels discussing
a threat letter Sir Henry had
received. That’s when the audiencerealised this would not
be the familiar spine—chilling
tale of the hound and the Baker Street man.
This version of Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle’s work is an
adaptation by Steven Canny
and John Nicholson. But can it
live up to the expectations
from the cult novel, and the
most loved detective who
could tell a tale of a walking
stick just bythe look of it?
well, there seemed to be only
two ways one could take this
adaptation—for those who appreciate a cheeky sense of humour could love it, while the
others who could only hate it.
But for the director of the
play Akash Khurana, “the
classic Sherlock Holmes mystery has inspired many versions for the stage and screen
over the years, but this adapta—
tion is the ﬁrst funny take on

the original that I have
५
come across”.
“I was particularly intrigued
by the challenges it posed on
the inventiveness of the theatre artists, notjust actors but
designers, stage managers,
wardrobe people and stage
hands,” Khurana told IANS.
Originally written byDoyle
is a mystery surrounding the
death of Sir Charles .
Baskerville, with a mysterious
‘ look of terror on his face and

paw prints of a gigantic hound
etched around his body.

Holmes, along with Dr Watdulging in quick costume
son unravel the mystery surchanges - during which techrounding this death and save
nical glitches seep in throughSir Henryfrom being the next , out the play.
victim of the beast.
As the curtains rise, audiMakes one wonder if the
ence witness Sir Charles
plot isn't a rather too intense
running for his life, the set
mystery, etched in the minds
lights perfectly setting the
of millions, to enable a comieerily scene. But as soon as he
cal twist.
dies, the lights are on, and the
Khurana’s play has a ﬁveactors are on stage prompting
mernber cast, who themselves each other over missing lines,
play all the other roles by inand soon make decisions to

. redo the play after few minout, something an army docutes into it!
tor like Watson wouldn't play
These kind of meta-theatri- along with.
.
cal instances keep adding to
After a short recess, the acthe plot throughout the play.
tors came back on to the stage
One could question if these
and bring back the meta— thewere taking away the essence , atre aspect into the play. The
ofthe play established so far.
artists, who express disapSherlock, played by Karan
pointment over a'tweet which
Pandit, although with his good said the play was rather ‘slow’,
looks ﬁts into a what a Holmes quickly recap the whole play
can be, never quite gives out
within minutes. Considering
the Sherlocldan deductions of the role changes they needed
the mysterious around him.
to do, this one aspect was
_ The play also seemed like its quite commendable.
being rushed through, when
Vivaan Shah, the younger
such intriguing details which
son of the theatre genius
usually catch Holmes’ attenNaseeruddin, merely plays
tion are left behind.
the role ofa convict who only
And Dr Watson, who serves has to run across the stage.
as an important catalyst for
And Stapleton and Miss StaHolmes’ function, as the
pleton, both played byKaran
American mystery writer
Pandit, sport some rather anWilliam _L DeAndrea said,
noying accents.
takes the role of a comic in
All in all, one would quesKhurana’s play.
tion if the genius writer's
Played byArghya Lahiri,
greateststory was lost in the
Dr. Watson bears an ignorant effort of giving a comical spin
look but spurts out rather
to. But where was the real
mystery solving?
cheeky comments through,

/

