humanistic hypocrisies by demanding and obtaining a complex
compassion for a wide range of the least lovable, least cosy
and least glamorous of human beings.’ (Angus Wilson)
‘A theatre that wishes to stay alive needs passion and
contemporary relevance (sometimes known, sneeringly, as
“ephemeral journalism”). Elegance, good taste and verbal

tnelliﬂuence, though excellent qualities in themselves, are
inadequate substitutes. John Osborne supplied the missing
ingredients at a time when it seemed that their absence was no
longer even noticed.’ (John Arden)
‘We owe so much to you”, Staupitz tells Luther in the last
act of John’s play. We all do. John Osborne brought back
honour, substance and dignity to a theatre which had been fed
for decades on “shells f'or shells, empty things for empty men”.

JOhn was the ﬁrst in the breakthrough of the dramatists who
have crowded in since 1956. But their breakthrough could only
have happened by the authority and humanity of his voice. He
is unique and alone in his ability to put on the stage the
quick of himself, his pain, his squalor, his nobility —
terrifyingly alone.’ (Tony Richardson)

"The strength of his start was a deliberate parochialism. Instead
of exploiting the deep, narrow ground he had deﬁned —— as his
many imitators persist in doing — Osborne moved into history,
into societies and styles of feeling radically different. Witness
his return to Lope de Vega, the dramatist of a complex,

hierarchic society —-- it, too, poised on the edge of decline.’
(George Steiner)

‘Look Back in Anger was painful in its accuracy and immediacy,
even for those people who would not ever have agreed that
‘there were no brave causes lef't’. Osborne struck a representative note, he summed up the sense of inverted rage, the

bitter raging against the cramped, pusillanimous forms of life
which stiﬂed Jimmy Porter. If Porter was unbearable, as the
stiffer critics said, it was because many of us were on the edge

of ﬁnding all our relationships unbearable. And what we

found in Look Back in Anger was the language which, at least
at that moment, contained something of our sense of life.

Constantly critical, it yet called out something more than a

reaction in us: it gave us lessons in feeling.’ (Stuart Hall)

4

