A Letter to my fellow countrymen
(I96! )
This is a letter of hate. It is for you, my countrymen. I mean
those men of my country who have deﬁled it. The men with
manic ﬁngers leading the sightless, feeble, betrayed body of my
country to its death. You are its murderers, and there’s little

left in my own brain but the thoughts of murder for you.

I cannot even address you as I began as ‘Dear’, for that word
alone would sin against my hatred. And this, my hatred for
you, and those who tolerate you, is about all I have left and all

the petty dignity my death may keep.

No, this is not the highly paid ‘anger’ or the ‘rhetoric’ you
like to smile at (you’ve tried to mangle my language, too).
You’ll not pour pennies into my cofﬁn for this; you are my

object. I am not yours. You are my vessel, you are my hatred.
That is my ﬁnal identity. True, it will no doubt die with me in
a short time and by your unceasing effort.
But perhaps it could be preserved, somewhere, in the dead

world that you have prepared for us, perhaps the tiny, unbared
spark of my human hatred might kindle, just for the briefest
moment in time, the life you lost for us.

I fear death. I dread it daily. I cling wretchedly to life, as I
have always done. I fear death, but I cannot hate it as I hate
you. It is only you I hate, and those who let you live, function
and prosper.

My ’hatred for you is almost the only constant satisfaction you
have left. me. My favourite fantasy is four minutes or so noncommercial viewing as you fry in your democratically elected
hot seats in Westminster, preferably with your condoning

democratic constituents.

There is murder in my brain, and I carry a knife in my heart
for every one of you. Macmillan, and you, Gaitskell, you

paricularly. I wish we could hang you all out, with your dirty
washing, on your damned Oder-Neisse Line, and those seven

out of ten Americans, too. I would willingly watch you all die
of
for the West, if only I could keep my own miniscule portion
it, you could all go ahead and die for Berlin, for Democracy,
to keep out the red hordes or whatever you like.

