The Characters
Usha Ganguli, who has established herself as one of India’s major directors, leading the theatre
group Rangakarmee for nearly twenty eight years now, still remains essentially an actress who loves
to take on challenging roles and seeks to grow in the process. Her artistic growth as an actress has
been rooted in a concern to react and respond to all those forces that inhibit the fulﬁlment of
humanity. The characters she has played over the years have been for her experiences of living
other lives and learning the modes of survival and the struggles they call for — in different situations.
The women she has created and lived on stage have drawn on Gorky, lbsen, Wesker; Kroetz,
Brecht, Franca Rame, Daria Fo, Rabindra Nath Tagore1 contemporary Indian playwrights like Mahesh
Lkunchwar; Ratnakar Matkari, Mannu Bhandari, Mahasweta Devi and Shafaat Khan; and above
everything else, on the state of women in India in the different classes, from the lowest to the
upper middle classes. As she plays out some of these roles in this collage of acts she demonstrates
her negotiations with a rich and complex reality through the idiom of performance. Trained as a
dancer in the classical Indian modes, she has the skills to ﬁnd the delicate balance between formal
rhythm and reality in the raw, a rare achievement.
There is a whole history of Indian womanhood played out in a large enough social space covering
middle class homes (in Gudiya Ghar from A Doll’s House and Pan'chay from Arnold Wesker’s
Roots), the urban working woman (in Request Concert), the working class fighter (in the GorkyBrecht Mother), the rural women at the extreme margins (in Lok Katha and Rudali); as well as
dramatic moments in history in nineteenth century Bengal (in Gharey Bairey), Fascist Germany
(in Brecht’s The Jewish Wife), and the seventeenth century Thirty years War in Germany
(in Himmat mai, from Brecht '5 classic Mother Courage and Her Children). The different dramatic
modes in evidence ranging from the naturalistic to the epic only go to highlight the roles their
women protagonists assume. Resistance and rebellion, critical understanting and assertion register
different responses to deprivation, discrimination and injustice, with Usha Ganguli’s sense of history
and warmth of concern never betraying her into facile realism or sentimentality. Beyond the voices
of these protagonists the struggle for survival in these adversities aiso comes to the fore through
real life protagonists —- the village woman .Kamala (whose in-laws tried to kill her because she
ble
pensi
indis
the
de)
suici
it
comm
to
her
d
force
ws
in-la
se
(who
ri
Madhu
girl
city
the
,
ters)
daugh
' had 3
house-maid Anima (whose husband drove her out so that he could remarry). All her women
life.
and
plays
their
n
withi
grow
they
as
n
zatio
reali
of
state
r
highe
a
to
rising
life
of
s
critic
emerge as

