Director’s Note
FROM CHAPLIN TO RAY
Any personal experience or transition an artist undergoes must surely reflect itself
in his works. Chaplin and Bergman have always been among my most favourite
directors. Chaplin—The eternal lonely tramp's a gentleman with an ever optimist heart

who walks alone on the road of life with perhaps an occasional interference from a
girl, a park and a policeman. (So well indianised by the Raj Kapoor Camp) and Bergman
in his eternal search of a woman’s breast and deep understanding of humans have
always inspired me. Only recently । saw a retrospective of Satyajit Ray and my heart is
filled with admiration for this great lndian--at times so traditional in his approach--The
use of a bird in cage for his neglected heroine in ’Charu Lata’ and of the storm when the
lover appears and the falling ’Pugri' in ’Jalsaghar' in the death of his hero a feudal
landlord and the covering of the feudal elephant by dust when a newly rich capitalist's
cars passby in the

same film-but with such forceful impact reminded me in a small

way that I too have talent and amidst such a transition.

The idea to stage

’Dhruvswamini' emerged.
Yes I have got my heart back in ’Dhruvswamini’ and have worked very
hard. As a director who has often been labelled as a 'monomaniac’, a self publicist and
his plays as 'advertiesments for himself’ and erratic in his ’studied precision' and his
’enthusiastic over exuberence in his plays I walk into ’Dhruvswanini' with perhaps a
rnaturer Out look and a more tolerant one. When recently reminded of an old statement

in an interview in ’Financial Express' which I had retaliated against the bogus critics,
mind you not genuine ones, by saying-’they are schizophrenics and they only help me
to an extent my girl friends can read about me in their hostels' in a new interview for
’vyakt’ | irnrneidiately said ’Oh no' they are bad but not so bad as we are bad but not so
bad' Yes Critics have taught me many things-almost all of them.

Prasad has written ’Dhruvswamini' historically and imaginatively and । am
too directing it historically and imaginatively. । have changed the script very little,

infact almost negligible contrary to many advices about to change the text.

The play in

itself has a lot of relevance to the women and their rights—an intellegent modern friend
was most pleased to learn that Prasad supports and champions the decision of his
heroine to divorce her cruel, selfish husband. I am confident my treating the subject
more imaginatively than historically should givie it a contemporary relevance too. Keeping
in view Ruchika's policy of encouraging new talent. I proudly introduce Ruchika's fourth
generation of actors-many of them making their first apperances.
Also past few months have been spent in not only doing theatre but also
seeing theatre-here l stubbornly and confidently maintain my stand against bogus
criticism in the same ”Financial Express interview that" ’I will never quit theatre for
if I quit only these critics (Bogus Critics not only Press but also members of the audience) will grumble five years, later that no one produces plays like Kuckreja any more".
And । dedicate this play to my wife Vanita Kuckreja without whom it
would not have been

possible.

— A R U N K U CK R E J A .

