MUDRA RAKSHAS
OUR APPROACH TO PRODUCTION
b’iudra Ralzshas, written in the 4th or the 5th century A. D. , is a political
play towering in its uniqueness in this genre ot world drama. Its poetry lies
in its plot. An extraordinarily intelligent plot detines its extremely complex
structure. Yet its concentrated aim is simple. It shoots torth lilze an arrow
piercing the entire storyline right through. That single aim is to disarm an
enemy at war and win him over as a triend without a hlow. Nothing could
he Inore challenging as a theme tor a writer. Yet the playright ma lees its
treatment an all-ahsorhing experience. He leeeps up the tempo ol warfare,
thiclz with intrigue, and through an atmosphere 01है the most devious

stratagenls achieves his objective 0t total peace. We are riveted hy Chal1al<ya’s
inind—in other words by Vishalzhadatta's Inind—which hrings ahout a
complete rout 0t Ralzshas, the enemy 0t Chandragupta Maurya, at the

same time ennohling us all by not only bringing round that same enemy to
the opposite camp as an ally, hut also elevating him as a man of great
integrity, a statesman of the highest order, and a Ininister des i rahl e to the

extreme tor the ahlest hing in the world. In the end, we marvel at its
dramatic power, which leaves us enthralled.

As a director, it was my taslz to impart this experience, to the extent

possible, in visual terms to the audience with lucidity and simplicity.
Hence the Poorvarang’, and the enactment of events, only verhally

described in the text. Hence also the iﬁvanilea, which I had first used

some thirtytive years ago in the production 0t this same play in English
in P. Lal's version. Lilzewise there are other devises 0t entries and exits,
which all helped in the demolition of the three Aristotlean l i n i ties oi.
Time, Space, and Action — only preserving the harmony named liy Rharat

l‘iuni , the Rasa.

The human values inherent in this predominantly political play are
ohvious. We have tried to project these. The sharp conternporaneity oij
the theme is equally maiiitest, or else how shall we call it a Classic? it has
heen our concern and endeavour to hint at these suhtle undertones as
well .

l [A B [B TANV lR.

