THE BRITISH COUNCIL
The British Council was established in 1934 and
incorporated by Royal Charter in 1940. It is
governed by a Board, with representatives from
the universities, the arts and sciences, the trade
union movement, industry and the British
government. Its headquarters are in London and
its representation is worldwide.
The aim of the British Council is to promote an
enduring understanding and appreciation of
Britain in other countries through cultural,
educational and technical cooperation.

The British Council provides information on
British education, science, medicine, technology
and the arts. It offers recruitment, training,
consultancy and management services for
educational programmes abroad. It represents
British drama, music, ballet and the fine arts.

The British Council works with a variety of institutions
s
and agencies overseas. First, with government
nal
natio
with
and their ministries. Then,
educational and cultural organisations — with
schools and universities, with research institutes
and libraries. The range of clients overseas is as
diverse as the British Council’s work.
The Council has offices throughout Britain and

in 80 countries overseas. It has a staff of nearly
2000 in Britain and over 2000 overseas.
In India the British Council has its head office in
Delhi with 3 other offices in Bombay, Calcutta
and Madras. It collaborates with the Indian Council
for Cultural Relations in the running of nine
British libraries at Ahmedabad, Bangalore,
Bhopal, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Patna, Pune,
Ranchi and Trivandrurn.

It receives grants from the British government.
It acts as an agent for British and international

For further information please contact :

agencies in administering technical cooperation

The British Council Division
British High Commission
AIFACS Building

programmes and, in some cases, overseas
institutions pay directly for its services.

Rafi Marg
Almost every part of British life is represented in
the work of the British Council. Though it is not
part of the British Government, it enjoys close
links with both central and local government
authorities; with schools, universities, polytechnics,
institutes of higher education and professional
associations and with the practitioners — the
teachers and academics, architects and
construction engineers, radio and television
authorities, publishers and book-sellers. On the

arts side, the British Council works closely with
theatre companies, ‘Orchestras and ballet
companies, art colleges, film producers, galleries
’
and museums.

New Delhi 110 001

द्वारा: ' ३

था'र'

I:

एँर्दरुड्डेहृअंन

