. GEORGE BERNARD आख्या: Tm; MAKING or The DRAMATIS’I‘
by
John Russell Brown

Judged by the standards of practical and profitable theatre, Bernard Shaw is
one of the greatest dramatists ever.
But at first he experienced difficulty
in having his plays performed.
Censorship was one problem, and the lack of
apprOpriate theatres, the right actors and the right audience were others.

Shaw started to write WIDOWERS' HOUSES in 1885 but its run at J T Grein's
Independent Theatre in 1892 extended only to two performances. Such
difficulties are over today, and now, more than ninety years after starting
to write for the stage

and more than thirty since his death in 1950,

Bernard

Shaw regularly packs theatres in every English~speaking nation and in many
others besides.
He wrote more than fifty plays of varying length, and more than a dozen of
them have been renowned successes almost from the first. Their star partS‘
have attracted the very best actors of each generation and have proved
responsive to many changes of fashion, thought and social expectations.
The passage of time has not rendered them obsolete but discovered new
strengths,

unexpected comedy and further subtleties of characterisation.

Shaw's dialogue has remained immediately accessible — animated, fascinating
and apparently new«minted.
Not all the plays we enjoy most today were received at first with acclamation.
Some press criticisms of ANDROCLES AND THE LION after its first production
in 1913 are representative in their variance from each other:
A very discursive and ill—knit play, which is, moreover, bound to give
offence to not a few...
The Morning Pos
A really bright and brilliant piece of work, not half so portentous as Mr
Shaw can be when he likes...
Tie Daily Chronicle
Laughter long and loud vollied and eVen thundered in the St James‘s Theatre
last night.
It was not the cynical, ill-natured laughter that often marks
a Shaw premiere, but merriment — glad, spontaneous and uncontrolled...
The Evening Standard
The present play is not even up to the level of CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA, by
no means one of Shaw's best efforts...
The Daily Herald
In later life Shaw used to say that each one of his plays was hailed as a
masterpiece, except the last one. He was almost pleased when a critic described
him as “a dignified monkey shying coconuts at a bewildered public”, and said he
was “touChed” by the softening adjective, “dignified”.
Bernard Shaw did not make it easy for his critics, because he never stopped,
drawing attention to himself, telling others what to think and cultivating
an arresting public persona that was somewhat comic and occasionally tiresome.
In part this may have been due

to spending all his early years as an outsider:

a naturally curious boy dissatisfied at school,

an Irishman in exile,

an

He had come to
unpublished novelis , a bachelor until the age of forty—two.
Lohdon from Dublin in 1876 at the age of twenty, having already worked as a
land—agent's clerk for more than four years.
He was new determined to become

