_ g …

a writer, but it took ten industrious years before he gained any recopnition.
Not until 1887 did the fifth of his novels become the first to be published
in book—form.
.

,

.

, .

.

.

J

The very titles of these works suggest their writer‘s long and self-conscious
pursuit of success and of his own proper place in life: IMMATURITY, THE
IRRATIONAL KNOT, LOVE AMONG THE ARTISTS, CASHEL BYRON'S PROFESSION (he was a
pugilist), AN UNSOCIAL SOCIALIST. The last of these reflects Shaw's
membership of the Fabian Society which dated from 1884 and led to immediate
and frequent engagements as a public-speaker.
In support of this socialist
group's determination to “reconstruct society”, he addressed whatever public
he could find in the open air on Clapham Common or in small meetings of
simpathizers. He gained in exchange a ready turn of clear-sounding phrase, a
tone of conviction and a keen sense for the reactions of an audience - talents
that are all evident in the plays he was shortly to write and in some of his
most energetic characters, for example James Morell in CANDIDA (1896).
Bernard Shaw was so long in finding his true profession as a dramatist that
it seems quite natural that he never lost a youthful zest for this work,
retaining into his nineties a love of eXperiment, fantasy and the unexpected.
Mrs Patrick Campbell, who first played Eliza in PYGMALION, used to call Bernard
Shaw “Joey”
as if he were a clown.
But that, like Shaw's own public fooling,

was nowhere near a full indication of the man or of his plays.
Other admirers e
and himself in certain moods — could see “GBS” as a prophet and a topical
political thinker.
(The Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition came to see
a play he wrote about the present state of Ireland).
He tackled large and
timely issues such as the future of Christianity, the terrors and attractions
of war, the possibility of international disarmament and the role of a poet in
society. He wrote MAN AND SUPERMAN about evolution and the function of what he
called The Life Force; and he published this play together with a REVOLUTIONIST'S
HANDBOOK AND POCKET COMPANION.
In the Five Parts of BACK TO METHUSELAH, Shaw
moved the action from BC HOOH through the centuries to AD 31,920, which he said
was “As Far As Thought Can Reach”.
He published a collection of “Trifles and
Tomfooleries”,

but he also caused the critics to class him with Ibsen as a

supreme Dramatist of Ideas.
Indeed Shaw's plays are full of ideas, discussed at considerable length by
their characters and effecting the development of those characters and the
situations in which they are presented.
No one could miss the author's concern
with contemporary politics,

morality,

science,

sociology,

education,

religion,

history, philosophy, bureaucracy and sexuality, and he went to unnecessary
lengths to elaborate his notions still further in prefaces, statements and free
ranging essays.
He used the occasion of publishing a dramatic text to address
his readers on “Parents and Children“,

“On Diabolonian Ethics”,

"Better Than

Shakespeare” and other topics arising in the plays.

Yet Shaw himself confessed that particular ideas were only a secondary element
in a thoroughly good play. When he was asked to contribute to a Symposium on
“Should social problems be freely dealt with in the Drama?", he conceded that
topical ideas could give an immediate interest to a play, but he went on to
Age, love, death, accident, and “personal
stress that they are not necessary.
character” all lie outside social institutions, and it is these that give permanent
interest to drama, independent of period or place.

In one of his reviews, reprinted in OUR THEATRE IN THE NINETIES, Bernard Shaw
wrote that “people's ideas, however useful they may be for embroidery,
especially in passages of comedy, are not the true stuff of drama, which is
always the naive feeling underlying the ideas”.

३

