{\l

7

.

Shakespeare 1n Kathakali
Dance exponent Prabhal Gupta discusses how the classical
dance fornr lras found a lovely synergy with English literature
J a yant hi वि,ad h ukar
, Irrwm-Iilr । it‘ filiiflilJ‘Hlli

ho would have thought that

Kathakali, a 17th century art form
from Kerala would soak up the
influences of English literature?

Kathakali dance exponent Prabhal Gupta,
who is gearing up for the first adaptation and

performance of Shakespeare’s Antony and
(.‘Ieoprrtm, says the classical dance form has
evolved over the years, ever since Vettathu

Raia, credited with ﬁrst reforrrring it, began to
make changes centuries ago. But English lit-

erature, especially Shakespeare, has only
recently been adapted to this art form. "Since
the past decade, " he says.
Gupta says he was born with his left hand
in ‘alapadma hasta mudra' and doctors struggled to ﬁx it. “i was meant to be a Kathakali
dancer,” he says.
He studied English literature in Kolkata,
where he grew up. Sirnultaneousiy, in 1990,
he took to learning Kathakali under gurus
such as Sadanam Balakrishna and Usha

Venkateshwaran. Kathakali has been thriving
in Kolkata, thanksto the impetus providedby
Rabindranath Tagore.
The prospect of intertwining literature and
Kathakali was always in Gupta‘smind. Infact,

his guru Sri Sadanarn Balakrishnan adapted
Othelloand King Lear successfully whileGupta
adapted Macbeth last year. " Both the
Shakespearean theatre and Kathakali theatre
traditions ﬂourished in the 17th century and
both relied on aristocratic patronage. And
that is just the start," he points out. in 2014,

Gupta decided to explore the possibility of
adapting English literature to Kathakali after
practising the art form for 24 years.
in Cleopatra, there is a scene where she is

speaking to her friend Mardian. The poetry
and rhythm in the bard’s writing has been
translated in the opening ’padam’ (stories
written by Kathakali playwrights to be sung
in appropriate magas) when the doe-eyed
Queen (performed by Gupta) sings the
Sanskrit verse: Krm'a kutr'asi sakhi mama vallabha? (O my friend, where is my beloved?)

Kathakali. a dance form from Keraia over
four centuries old. is about the story (katlra)
and play (kali). Its performers wear
elaborate makeup and costumes to narrate
stories from the Mahabharata, Ramayana
and the Bhagavat Puranam through mime
and rrrusicality. There are nine rasas
(emotions) which become exaggerated
theatrical expressions. Gupta suggests: Cleo(corrrpassion. tragedy) Shylock - Roudram
(anger), Hasyam (satire) Lady Macbeth Roudram and Karunyam

Kathakali allows songs/verses to bring out
as Gupta lives and breathes her role. He
Raag Shankarabharanam and ५ . a ‘ ’ " ' ' ' “ ' mimes, using intense gestures. His
Purvikalyani are used to show
८ eyebrows, cheeks and eyeballs
the love between Cleopatra r
trill in pleasure; it ripples down
t N l 0 N [)0 N
and Antony. Later, I '
"\ hisbody that heaves in rage,
Kathakali King Lear was
Cleopatra’s rage, on hear- I‘
'भू and shudders in grief. The
presented at London's Globe
ing of Antony’s mar- (I
stage is used as an intimate
Theatre in ।ह्मा३भी The
riage, is shown by Raag
\ platform and apart from
|ntlian-Arrstralion-French collaboraVekata. Tobring out the
1 Gupta, there are only
tion Annette Leday/Keli Company
pathos of Cleopatra’s
performed Slrakesparean theatre by ह्र three musicians playing
death, Raag Shivaranilni
’ the Chenda, Maddaiam,
lrrsirrg it with the plrysicalisation of
is used. "The poetic and
emotion by Kathakali masters. It पृ and Edakka; the main perstylised plots of English
received rave reviews in the V v’ cussion instruments.
literature mesh beautifully
Here, Kathakali is more
_ irrternationalpr‘css.
with the language of
like the Shakespearean plays of
Kathakali . "
And the dance form allows for the
spotlight on the anti-hero (or anti-heroine).

the yore. When the actors essayed
the characters; they lived the roles.
Unlike other classical dances, Kathakali will

Some of the most poignant pariams are on

not allow a character to switch roles. " 1 carr, not be Cleopatra and then Antony," Gupta
says. “1 remain Cleopatra all the time, talking

Cleopatra can be depicted with ease in
Kathakali. "Even the poerrr The Last Ride
together by Robert Browning can be done,“
Gupta says confidently, given its pathos.
Rehearsing for Cleopatra is a 'lonely’ affair

i

patra - Shringaram (beauty). Karurryam

the efficacy of the scenes and moods.

Nakhratundi (from Namkasrrm Vudlrom: she
woos indira's son to no avail and later tights
l rim ), Ravana (Ruvanotblmvmr) and Simhika
(from Kirmce'ru Vadlrtmr, who wants to take
revenge on the Pandavas ). So, complex characters such as Lady Macbeth, Othello and

३

to an invisible friend, lover, and others."
There could have been more characters — "a
full-fledged” production but that needs funds,
sighs the man who says he is the only
Kathakali dancer living in this town.
The Inﬂuence ofErrinsh Literature on

Kathakali by Prabal Gupta, 6.30pm, [rd 1 7th,
BangaloreInternational Centre Auditorium,

Call.“ 25359680

MI was born with my left hand
in ‘alapadma hasta mudra’ and
doctors struggled to fix it. I was
meant to be a Kathakali dancer
PRAB HAL GUPTA

r

