UMA SHARMA is a renowned classical dancer who has been awarded the Padma Bhushan for her
contribution to the cultural tradition of this country. She has revolutionised the repertoire of the
classical form of her chosen form of dance by enriching it iwth literary and intellectual subtance by
drawing upon and interpreting the works of the great poets of our country from ancient to modern
times.
In interpreting transition through her own art form, Uma Shanna has been centre stage of
events in the country. She is Director of the Bharatiya Sangeet Sadan, a school of Dance &
Music and literary mehﬁls.

U MA 5H AR M A
Pad ma B h usha n

Infact to Indian dance, has been marked by her innovative programme and search
for the roots of the dance. U ma has regained for Kathak its old glory and restored to it the
lost frontiers of poetry and the tradition of abhinaya. As a performer her forte is abhinaya, the
interpretative and expressional body language which transforms the poetic images into rich visual
images of great pictorial charm. Her body attitudes and movement of arms evoke the contours of
miniature painting, and with her soft, rhythmic foot-work, she writes love poems on the stage.

Uma Sharma has been trained by the greatest gurus of the Kathak tradition such as Shambhu
Maharaj of the Lucknow Gharana and Sunder Prasad Ji of the Jaipur Gharana .
Having mastered the presentation of traditional items, she has widened and enriched the
repertoire of Kathak by composing new dancenurnbers and full length dance-dramas on a variety of
themes. Her dance creation Stree (Woman), has been greatly admired for it powerful
thematic content and artistic presentation.
Uma has introduced famous Hindi & Urdu Poets Ghalib, Kaiﬁ Azmi, "Neeraj",
Harvansh Rai Bacchan-(Madhushala), Tagore, Kalidas, Meera, Tulsidas, Surdas and
Many other Hindi & Urdu Poets in dance.
Uma has performed all over the country and participated in many a national and international
festivals.
She has been on performance tours to USSR, New Zealand, Australia, USA, Canada, Middle
East, Japan and China, both on invitation from organizations, abroad ; and, as a representative of
Indian dance sponsored by the Department of Culture and the Indian Council of Cultural Relations.
She has won the prestigious National Awards, such as Padma Bhushan, Padma
Shree, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and the Sahitya Kala Parishad Award.
Her body attitudes and movement of arms evoke the contours of miniature
painting. and with her soft, rhythmic foot-work, she writes love poems on the stag
e.

