U MA VASU D EV
(Author, Journalist
and Filmmaker)

Uma Vasudev is a welknown author, journalist, firnemaker & Director in group so the Media People.
She has a deep ample knowledge and vast experience in fields of writing and editing. There is no end
to her continuous service to the nation in various forms. She completed her BA (hons.) English from
Kinnaird College, Lahore & got her higher education from Christchurch College, Shirnla and Miranda
House, Delhi. She also got for Diploma in International Relations, London University, London, U.K.
She has been serving the nation since 1952, more than five decades.
She has been the editor of 'surge', a month |y of politics and the arts from 1952-60, the Assistant
Editor of 'Natya', a magzine of the theatre arts from 1955-56, a music artical for 'Thought', a weekly
from 1952-59 & for 'Hindustan Tirnes' from 1958-60. She also wrote Columns on Hindustani Classical
Musicians in 'Illustrated Weekly of India' in 1958-62.
Be it any field like Journalism, Politics, Music, other arts, commentaries and even Doordarshan,
Uma Vasudev can be found everywhere. In sixties also she wrote, 'Srnall Town Vignettes', a Weekly
column in the Indian Express, dealing with the socialogical face of small town India, 'Opinion AIR', a
weekly radio column commenting on talks, interviews, feetures and programmes broadcast over All
India Radio.
She has been the Editor of 'Surge International' a quarterly of politics and the arts from 1971—
86, contributed in The times of India, Hindustan Times, Statesman, Indian Express, Palriot, Link,

India Today and also dealt with foreign affairs fortnighthy columns in India Today. She has been a

Music critic for "link", "Hindustan Times" and Illustrated Weekly of India, "Arts and the Man", A daily
column in the Indian Express again dealt with music, theatre and the plastic arts from 1974-79.
"Cultural close-up", a weekly column on the arts in rThe Times of India' which included
extensive comments and analysis of the world of art and artists was written by her.
She has been the author of a long list of books on various subjects. To name a few 'Two faces of
Indira Gandhi', 'Shreya of Sonagarh' 'Rornance of the Bambo Deed—a biography of fluetist
Hariprasad Chaurasia and rThe making of an Oppisition'—a study of India's evolutionary pains as a
parliamentary democracy.
She has been the Chairpuson of Hindustani sabha, society for the prornotion of Composite
culture, forever President of All India critics Association, Chairperson of Indian Cultural Society and
President of Cultural wing, ind. Inst. for International Understanding.

