Born on 20th April 1972 in Delhi, Ravi Chauhan, who is the heart and soul in these performances has reared into
the richness and grandeur of the famous Lucknow Gharana of Kathak. Ravi Chauhan recieved initial training in

RAVI CHAUHAN
Di rector-Choreog ra pher

Kathak under srnt. Bhashwati Mishra. He further had the privilege-of advanced guidance from outstanding gurus
like Maharaj Ram Mohan Mishra and training of Chhau under the guidance of Guru Olek Nirenjan Bisoi at shri Ram
Bharatia Kala Kendra.
Natural talent, deep dedication, ﬁne training and rigorous years of Riyaaz enabled Ravi to crave a niche for
himself in the world of Kathak dance. Gifted with the perfect sence of harmony, the poise, precision and sence of
movements in Ravi's dance emanates from the discipline inherited from his gurus. He has emerged as a
consumate artist in two distinct and most sought after styles in Indian Classical Dance tradition of Kathak and
Ch ha u .
Ravi has had the honour of performing for leading cultural associations, in 1990 at the kathak Mahotsava's
Aakar Jayanti and in the same year toured Japan, Koria and Thailand. In 1990 He combined different styles and
techniques with his readering of 'Nirvan'. Ravi Chauhan has performed as a leading artist for 'shri Ram Bharatiya
Kala Kendra' in its productions. He has also proved hsi tailent of dance, classical as well as folk with many famous
personatituis of this county in their perforrnences. Presently he can be seen the DD. Channel in its serial 'Shri—
Radha' as a Krishna.

DIRECTOR'S NOTE
The organisation 'Shrirnta srijan art & culture' has been giving performances of Indian Classical dances. folk
dances, creative dances and Dance-Dramas, potraying Indian culture and in all its diversity thorugh
choreographed movements in various in all overIndia and various countries of the globe. On no proﬁt—no loss basis
for about fifteen years under the banner of 'Srijan Art & Culture'. Our extensive I ndion ballets dances, dramas and
solo perforrnences that have been rendered in kathak— Odissi, Bharatnatyarn, anipuri, Chhau we have presented
Dance—Dramas HORI DHOOM MACHO RI (music composed by Pt. Birju Maharaj Ji). RAMLILA, KRISHNA NAMAMI.
KHAJURAO, MEERA, DARBAR—E-MUGHAL, MAHADEV, GEETA-UPDESH AND NAVRAS.
Now the name of this organisation is changed to 'Shrirnat srijan art & culture' and it is giving its inauguart
performance in 'parichaya' an evening of dances. When I decided to present a dance-drama for the same the first
Character which came to my mind was 'Buddha' As I was very much impressed with the life and teachings of
Buddha for a long time. But This was not a child' play to present the life history of Buddha in dance—drama. This,
only became possible with the encouragement and co-operation of my friends and colleagues.
With the combined efforts of all, this imagination turned to reality and I a m very grateful to all who helped me
in cherishing my dream as THATHGAT.
Hoping that this presentation enables us to communicate the theme, ideas and teachings of Buddha in a
meaningful way.

Artists performing under this programme are mostly trained for Shrirarn Bhartiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi
which has Produced many famous artists to the world of Indian Classics. I am greatfull to Padrnashri Shobha
Deepak Singh, Director, Shri Ram Bhartiya Kala Kendra, for her grand dedication and work for Art & Culture of
I n d ia .

