ABOUT CHATURANG AND TATHAGAT

CHATURANG The genesis of the cotemporary styles of Classical dances can be traced to the period
between 1300- 1400 AD. India offers a numbers of classical dance forms, each of which
can be traced to different parts of the country. Each form represents the culture & ethos of
a particular region or a group.- CHATURANG is Choreographed & composed as a welcome
dance for this program. Bharatnatyarn, Kathak, Odissi and Chhau styles of Indian Classical
Dances are beautifully organised here.

'TATHAGAT' refers to a person who travels on a path of right view, right thought, right speech, right
behaviour right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness and right meditation. And that
was Buddha, son of Shuddhodana Gautarn and Maya, the King and Queen of Kapilavastu.
So The Dance—Drama we are presenting is a tribute to Buddha.
The dance style of this ballet is in Mayurbhanj Ch ha u .
The Choreography attempts to reflect the subtle modalities of Buddha's story through flows of
expressive movements where traditional boundaries between meaningful expressions
and purin entertaining movements are d isin legrated .

SYNOPSIS 0 F TATHAGAT..
SCENE—I : 'Tathagat' starts with glimpses of whole Dance-Drama. Siddharth is born and people of
kapilavastu are celebrating their happiness through 'Badhai—Dance'
SCENE—II : The education of the prince Siddarth comprises royal etiquette, spiritual learning,
methods of warfare and the fine arts.
SCENE—III : Hunting of a swan by Devdatt Siddharth's cousin. Siddarth saves the swan. They fight
for its rights. King suddhodana solves the disbute between the two and gave judgement in favour of
s idd h a rth .
SCENE—IV : Spring festival is held to enable Siddharth to find a bride. Siddharth chooses the
beautiful yashodhara. They wed and eventually have a son, Rah ul .
SCENE-V : The royal couple ascends to their apartment where Siddharth puts Yashodhara and
Rahul to sleep. He silently bids them farewell and wanders in search of truth.

