SCENE—VI : The prince, now known only as Ga utarna . He is attended by the five ascetics, practices
traditional at methods of meditation and penance. As the seasens pass, his cendition deterioratis
because of fasting and austerities: Sujata, the daughter of a nearby tribal king. Prepares a dish of
sweet rice and serves it to Gautama. He eats and ends his penance. The five ascetics, dis appointed at
Gautama's apparent lack of determination, leave him.
SCENE—VII : Gautam Buddha establishes the 'Wheel of Right eousness the 'Dharamachakra' and
imports the four noble truth—the existence of suffering, suffering arising from craving, the stooping

of craving and the way to stop craving. His fame spreads in all directions, A woman comes to Buddha
with her dead child and request him to make him alive. Buddha asks her to bring mustard from such
house which has never witnessed a death. She does not find any such house and returns to Buddha
Who then preaches her that death is certain our aim is to get 'NIRVANA'.

SCENE—VIII : Buddha meets 'Angulimaal', the dacoit who wants to kill him and cut his finger.
Buddha saks him to do so if he is able to join it after cutting. Angulirnaal refuses that he can't do so.
Then Buddha preaches him that if you cannot construct a thing, you have no right to destruct it.
Angulirnaal leaves the path of evil and becomes Buddha's disciple.

SCENE—IX : Buddha imports the knowledge he has gained, to his disciples. He teaches them the
'four cu i nas' or good qualities of friendship, compassion, joy and equanirnily.
—Vinay sheel

Our Special thanks to...
Lion Di nesh Agga rwa I (Cardamom Ma rcha nts ) Ilachi Wale
TRIVENI TRADING CO.
2064/6, Aggarwal Market, Katra Tobacco, Khari Baoli, Delhi-110006
Phones : 22941000, 23930559 (Office) 22723602, 22722166 (Resi.)

MANISHA ARTS
(M) 981054 9257
Gajendera Mani
A D I VISUALS
P-61, Duble Story Building Laj pat Nagar-4, New Delhi
(M) 981050927

Smt. Manisha, Sh. Sanjeev Shanna, Sh. Gyanendra Singh Tomer
Pradeep Ku mar Sha rma, Ajay Rawat

