i'rrrlrrrheyl’athak

'

1,

ii

Preserving
the past
\\ "५ thenmntrle
eiccrriron ct Eihrmtrctka
Caves. listed by Uhist’U
as a i'tt‘rld Heritage Site
most rock art shelter~
(IUOSS tndra tiremarred
by graffiti. ii rt". (norm
tlrmel and soul notes
declaring 'l love 'शाक्ति' or
‘lar Bholenath‘ scrawled
across the prehistoric
paintings ' The more we
discover. the more we
damage." savs Dubey
Pat hak
She suggests that we
protect eustrng srtes
before prorriotingthese

r.

l

to tourists or pllgrrms

i

“Instead of lrghtrrrg
rncerrse sticksand
making otterrngs of
coconuts. we have to
educate people about
the Importance of this
living heritage." says
Dubey Pathak, as she
rants about how Indian
tourists pour water over
ancrent paintingsto
make them stand out in
then photographs.

फ्लॉप. w -क्त)ष्कक्ता।कंम्भरूच्चारूश्चाक्च m“!

F
E

Clockwise: Dubey Pathak
at roskart caves in
Ushakothl In Odssa. Chuﬁri
In Spain and Bhlrrilat in

८-५ १ a ८ - t

"कू" r

Raj astharr

Romancing the stone
Scrawls and shapes on stones may not be much to look at, but rockpaintings are the earliest art form practised

byour ancestors, Meenakshi DubeyPathak, India's only woman rock artresearcher; tells Marisha Karwa

like to go back in time. “Our an-

:

cestors made beautiful objects in
that prehistoric period. I have a

,. t … .
,~ ..r
८. u . J.“_p
Dubey Pathak was perhaps 10 or II when
she ﬁrst sawa petroglyph (rock painting).
The Jabalpur bornwould frequentlyaccompany her Madhya Pradesh governrrient of?
beer father on his worktrips to Bhopal from

lot ofrespect for them. Stone tools,

IIoshangabad. She recalls being fascinated

microlitbs. blades. heads. ﬂint...

each time their vehicle passed the Adam-

Meeriakshi Dubey Pathak's reflex

responsewhen asked ifshe would

५

दृ
‘ " '

They wereeven painting back then. Some of

the paintingscan make you cry."
Unlike the Vivid canvasses of Van Gogh.
Monnetor Klimt that callout to emotion. the

garh Hills: on onesuch trip, she insisted that
the car be stopped so she could climb the
rocks. “When the car stopped. I ran all the

ter's degree in historic rock art and went on

photography and videography. “I'll write

to pursue a PhD. For this. she extensively
researched the Pachmarhi region. which
had until then been documented only by
Britishers GR Hunter and DH Gordon in the
preindeperidenceera. With herfather being
posted in Ujjain. Dubey Pathak met "the fa
ther of Indian rock art". Dr VS Wakankar.
who eventuallybecame her mentor, “He was

only that which I can identify with 100 percent cenamty. otherwise I state that a {cum

very happy upon learning that a girl was
braving the thick jungles ofSatpuda to study

showing the relationshipbetween man and

the paintings and drawings." recalls Dubey

dimentaryscrawls depicting ﬁgures ofpeo~

Pathak, her voice still ﬁlled with wonder.

pie. animals and symbols made on rocks.

Over the years. Dubey Pathak read what

found in cave shelters deep within forests.
There isno proportion.order or backgron
and the ‘painting' itself could be engraved.
with shades of white. yellow and red ﬁlled
into some forms.

little material was available on rock art even
as she completed her graduation in psychology and painting. She then pursued a mas-

honest because this is not my production.

I'm merelypresenting information about it."
says Dubey Pathak.
In her explorations. she's found depictions of a society of hunters and gatherers
animals. Human forms wielding sticks.

rock art,especially Pachmarhi." shesays of

spears. axes and bows and arrowsappear as

her "guru'i

commonly as do the ﬁgures of bees. rats. liz-

way to the top and was simply amazed at all

ones Dubey Pathak is talking about are ru-

ﬁgure/symbol is ‘unidentiﬁed'. I have to be

ards. dogs. monkeys. butlaloes. deer. elephants and tigers. Dubey Pathak has even

Dubey Pathak iiiust've been an anomaly

when she setout to explore Paciuriarhi at the
age of 23 in 1987. Field work involved walk~

authored a paper on “headhunters” in Indian rock art.
w.
१
न
s a ३५ . a .11., ५ दृ

to a .. - - , .

… at.) .1 Lids-21:2:

Mother to two daughters. Dubey Pathak has
documented over600 painted rock shelters

This then has beenthe canvas that D ubey
Pathak has been studying for the last three
decades. The 5l-year-old is India's only fe-

ing through a wild jungleand over hills and

plateaus to access rock shelters. With little
or no detailed maps. this usually meant

across India. nearly500 of which are in Mad-

male rock art researcher whohas dedicated

walking for hours before chancing upon a

a better part of her life to the study of the

possiblesite. She roped in a forest-dwelling
couple frorii the Korku tribe to take her
through the forest.
It was on one such trip that she came
across her first “discovei " - a hitherto
undocumented rock art site. “It was at the
edge ofa cliff and difﬁcult to access. The

own discoveries — 25 painted rock shelters
in Pachmarhi — that occurred during ﬁeld

earliest art form in the evolution of homo
sapiens. In the process, she has learnt to

'see‘ the faint. diminished and often nonexistent lines of ﬁgures, spotting patterns. decoding that a row of animals isperhaps a herd. assigning

meaning to symbols and understanding the lifestyle of tribalsin central India.

tribal man interlocked his hands for me to
step on them and climb onto the rock."

remembers Dubey Pathak. "It was a
wonderful site with very clear
paintings. We rriight call such

ﬁiiduigs new and term them ‘discovery', but the tribals already

know of their existence."
Once she is at a site. Dubey
Pathaksets about her documentation she lists the rock sheltor's or
site‘s height. pi'ojecl ion. formation.
direction on the Compass and location fromthe nearest town/village.
She thendetails the ' pa int ing', counting the figures. forms. symbols. do»

scribing whether the figure is that of a
male. femaleor an animal (which one)
At It i ntonod a
Canyon ;P atrogly uh

atioipal
. '
M onumm. New
1: MexicoU_S A
३ . l

or if it's zi scone. whether it depicts
hunting or celebration. etc. what colour pigmcnts havebeen used rind so on.
Soiiiotimcs if thc paintings are superimposed. she has to note the possibility of
these being from two different time perieds. The lititus arr- Iollowcd by extensive

hya Pradesh alone. Among these are her

tripsfor her PhD research. Her other explo

rations have been in Raiasthari. Chhattis
garh and Ladakh. where site set up the
'I‘rishulPetroglyph Park in Karo. TheBhopal resident has widely written about rock
art. publishing booksand contributing chap

ters. In 2014. the founderqneiiiber of the
Rock Art Society of India was honoured by
the French government with the Chevalier
des Arts 2! Laura (Knight in the National

Order of Arts and Letters).
To understand rock art. It is important to
first understand the life and culture of the
tribals. says Dubey Pothak. who has explored rock art in France, Spain. Italy. the
US, Australia and China. ' ' Whenour ancestors had a dream. a desire ora wish. they'd
put it down on stoneto record it or would set
it in stone after the wish had been fulﬁlled
as a reminder." she says, explaining how
members of the Bliil tribe make pr’rheras or

the tribals in Odislia make idirals on the
walls of their home in anticipation of the
granting of a wish. "Likewise in Chhattisgarb. the tribals make memory pillars.

These were cnrlrcl' made of wood. but are
now made of stone slabs All these works
bear similarities With what we ﬁnd in pro
historic rock art So our trndltions are not
vanishing. Just ti :insfhrniing."
marrshalarwa®unarndianet@MartshaThakur

' r' … नं ems.

he Paleolithic period.“ That‘s

.

‘

