JAINENDRA KUMAR
(January 2, 1905 - December 24, 1988)
Jainendra Kumar loved to argue to express doubts and ignite controversy,
in life and in his prose. It was not surprising that readers who preferred to be
led along by the finger and not provoked into reflection often found him heavy
and somewhat abstract. Reading him is to say good bye to a relaxed, casual
kind of reading, and be ever ready to be halted midway to ponder over the
inexplicable mysteries of the human mind.
Born in 1905, Jainendra acquired his literary sanskaras in an age steeped
in a political idealism; an age astuter perceptive and absurdly naive at the
same time. No one exemplifies this ambivalence as clearly as Jainendra
Ku mar, in novels such as Para/(h, Tyagpatra and Sun/ta. These works reflect
the basic schizophrenia of the educated Indian middle classes. They did not
sense double standards when they passionately urged the mothers and
daughters to join the Freedom Movement asking them at the same time, to
retain their traditional modesty and compliance.
Jainendra’s novels are as slender and graceful as he was. They could not
have been voluminous. Whereas the beauty of old masters was the beauty
of species and mass, resulting in a Godan or a Jhoota Such, with their
awesome volume and tremendous sense of design, the ultimate beauty of
Jainendra’s work lies in its restless search for what is quintessential in a
pattern of binary oppositions. At its best his books abolish the author and
make the text into a space, into which the reader may project the structures
of his or her own mind. Novels like Sun/ta and Tyagpatra do not humour or
titillate or guide you along, they urge you to step into their looking glass and
you find you’ve stepped into the depths of your own soul.
(Excerpts from Mrinal Pande’s article.
Courtesy Hindustan Times, 30-12-1988)

TYAG PAT RA
Tyagpatra is an extremely sensitive portrait of life as perceived
by an uninhibited young man. Through his eyes we witness in
anguish the spectacle of a young woman tearing herself away
from traditional social bonds and ultirnetely exposing the false,
artificial values of a smug, callous, decadent society.
Tyagpatra when published in 1937 was hailed by critics as
one of the finest piece of fiction. And this verdict has not
changed since then.

