ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
A freelance theatre worker and film
person since 1972, MK. Raina graduated
from National School of Drama in 1970
with Best actor award. His association
with the rural and urban theatre across
the country has developed into a unique
style. As an actor, he has worked in more

than a hundred plays. He has directed
several memorable productions like
Kabira Khada Bazar Mein, Karmawali,
Kabhi Na Chhoden Khet etc. Andha Yug,

directed by him was performed in Berlin;
and at the Festival of India in the USSR.
Raina has conducted many theatre
workshops, has directed and acted in
feature films like 27 down, Ek Ruka Hua
Faisla, Mayna Ka butar etc.
He has been making documentary films
for many years. Apart from being
honoured with the Sanskriti Sarnrnan,
Sahitya Kala Parishad Award, Best
Director of the year award by West
Bengal Government and the Best
Director's award of Punjabi Akademi;
Raina received the Sangeet Natak
Akademi award in 1995 and the Swarna
Padak from Govt. of Jammu & Kashmir in
1996.

ABOUT N.S.D.
National School of Drama was
established in April 1959 by Sangeet
Natak Akademi to meet the growing need
for developing a National theatre in India.
In December 1975, the School was
registered as an autonomous
organization under the aegis of
Department of Culture, Govt. of India. It is
fullyfinanced bythe Government.

The. School provides a comprehensive 3year course of training in Dramatic Arts.
After the completion of the course, a
Diploma in Drarnatics which has been
recognized as equivalent to MA. Degree
is awarded to the successful students. To
supplement the input of the regular
teaching faculty, the School invites
distinguished teachers and theatre
directors to impart theoretical as well as
practical training to the students.
Occasionally students from foreign
countries such as Mauritius, Nepal,
Bangladesh, Nigeria and South Korea are
also admitted to the course.

AB 0 UT TH E PLAYWRI G HT
Doyen of modern Hindi Literature, M unshi
P re m c h a n d was born on 31 st July, 1880 at
vi | | a g e La m h i n 9 a r B a n a ra s .
After completing Preliminary education in
a Maqtab he completed Matric from
mission school of Banaras. He completed
BA on private level while in job. He also
worked as a sub-deputy inspector of
schools. He resigned from Govt. job on the
invocation of Mahatma Gandhi. By his
writing work he was completely devoted
in the National Service. He also worked
as a script writer for films in the year 1934
for some period. He edited Maryada,
Madhuri, Hans and Jagran etc.
Initially, he started his writing work in
urdu language but very soon he started
writing in Hindi as well. He wrote world
famous novels like Sevasadan, Nirmala,
Rangbhoomi, Ghaban, Kayakalp,
Premashram, Godaan etc.; and about 300
stories. He has also written essays,
Dramas & Criticism work. He was
Chairman of first session of progressive
writers' Association in 1936. He suffered
from dropsy for many months and died on
8th October 1936.

