दै , , १ Lifeदै Lessons fromKorea,
Wit] Puppets for Professors
तो
by Chandini U
ave you seen agrandfather
shake his booty? How
about a crane do splits?
.
. No? This and a lot more
waswitnessed by spectators at Puppet
Fantasy, Hooray! presented by a Ko—

rean duo calledManetsangsahwa. The
show was brought to life at the Little
Festival organised by Little Theatre,
at the Museum Theatre, on Friday.

The performance was divided into
seven acts, the ﬁrst six by Kyu-mi K0,

the creative designer ofthe puppets,
and the last by Bong-seok Kim. The
audience was ﬁrstwelcomed by shimmering butterﬂies from the theatre
entrance, ﬂuttering through the crowd
and up on the stage. It was titled ‘The
Butterﬂy Homage.’
The second act titled ‘Flower’s
Dream,’ represented the Korean ide—
al that everyone comes into the world
as a ﬂower and one day, will die as a
ﬂower. The puppet or what appeared
to be a ﬂowerbud, bloomed andthen
evolved into a woman, hands fanning

herself gracefully.
A white, magnificent crane was
brought to the stage later. It is a Ko—
rean belief that anyone who sees a
crane dance is bound to have lots of
luck! A theatre full of children and
adultswatched the bird in amazement
as it openedits wings and also danced,
keeping pace with the music. One
couldn’t help tappingtheir feet to the
Sinawi folk tunes.
The fourthact, ‘Grandfather hip—hop’
A scene from Puppet Fantasy, Hooray! | P RAVIKUMAR

received the loudest cheer and applause. A hilarious attempt at Hip-hop
was bya grandfather puppet complete
with hand gestures, neck movements
and even a little booty shaking.
A life—sized puppet took to the stage
in the act ofthe Salpuri dance. Kyu—mi
handled the puppet skillfully. Her
right hand was the puppet’s right
hand and she handled all the strings,
the skirt and the wicker hat with
grace. It almost looked like the wornan was real. Catching their breath, the

audience watched the woman tell a
story through her wildly gesturing
puppet.

.

“'Ihe puppetwoman was upsetwith
the drooping ﬂowers which represents sorrow. So, she sought to ﬁnd a

blooming ﬂower (hope) and when she
found it she brought it oVer the drooping ﬂower to overpower sorrow,” explained Kyu—mi to us after the show.
The event had an interactive session with the audience. Kyu—mi han—
picked a few students and taught
them the steps to makea small puppet
dance to a traditional Korean Song
called Arirang.
The ﬁnal act, ‘Complete Freedom’,

performed by Bong-seok Kim. He was
seen performing a serious act ofwalk—
ing on a rope that he ﬂung on the
ground, a bag ofpetals in hand, withdifferent emotions. In the end, he

threw away the petals.

“The tight rope symbolises our
timeline — from birth to death,” he

told us later. “The bag that was carried was misfortune and in the end I
threw it away. I gave away all the
worldly materialism to nature and attained complete freedom.”
All these loosely inter-connected
acts portrayed Korea’s beliefs, ideals
and an array of emotions ._ The
duo,which has been performing
since 2003, were in India for the

second time.
The Little Festival will return next
year in July with more international
performances in an attempt to bridge
differences through art.

