FOOT PRINTS ON THE SAND OF TIMES
Prabhat Kurnar Bose spells organisation, leadership; Creativity and action. He
combined all goods form into a theatre art group known as 'Akansha’ at Lucknow on 22nd
Dec. 1977. It was a stepping stone for young and talented artists of Lucknow for
exposure and creativity.
-

,

Bose P; K. had a desire to learn techniques of drarnatics from lives early day when
he was still a student of B. A. Course at Lucknow University. After his graduation, Bose
P. K. got in touch with legendery Sri Gaianan Jagirdar a famous Director Producer and
actor from Bombay filrndoor who had started, ‘Lucknow films and television Institute at
Lucknow and secured diploma in acting and directions in 1975.
Initially. Bose did all to manage his plays by investing from his pockets and small

donations from friends, but soon it damned on him that as a frequent regular practice, it
is not only overtaxing his meager resources but unpracticable. He went for a job to
support his hobby. . In 1977 Akansha staged its first show "Undersecretary" written by
Sri Ramesh Mehta and in 1979 Akansha got itself registered with the registrar Socieities

under Society's Act of 1860.

Very few socio cultural organisations serve the ordeals of

infancyhood but Akansha is an exception, it has grown of 14 years.

It has faced odd

weather, still it did not lose heart and the reward is in the form of recognition granted by
U. P. Government who offered it grant in aid for promotion of its activities. The other
plays in the index of Akansha staged are Zamana: Bap-Re-Bap: Akhiri Sawal ; Baki ltihas;
Akhiri Kadi; Dil Ki Dukan; Adhey Adhurey; Pair Taley ki Zameen; Mazboorian; Neev Ki

Dararev; Derh Rooti, Suhag and Daratey etc etc.

So far it has st ged 250 shows of

44 plays

Bose P . K. had proposed to me to offer incentive to participating artists of the
Akansha
My late reverened father Dr. Khusi Ram Dilkash who was alive at that time
readyl'y agreed to donate running shield and first 2nd 8 lllrd prizes to best artist of the
play.
.
Akansha is specially indebted to Sree Raman Lal Agarwal Ji of M/S Kanhiya Lal

Prayag Dass who is the Chairman of Akansha Arts and who never failed to offer financial
support for the suwival of the Akansha more than the financial SUpport it is his lovable
guiding nature which always stons path to be treversed by Akansha.

in 1989-90 Directorate of Cultural affairs, U. P. Govt. offered Rs. 8000/- as grant
in Aid to Akansha and inturn the group held plays at Kanpur, Barabanki and Lucknow
In 1990-91 under Roopankar Kala Yojna the Government encouraged Akansha to
receive another grant in aid of Rs. 15000/- During the current year in first Akansha proposes to staged, Saley Bahnoi Ke Paintrey or 'Mahasammelan' at Lucknow. in Second
phase to reach Kanpur and in third phase at Barabanki,
The spirit behind Bose's dynamism is Lady Bose, her name is Mrs Achla Bose
She herself is very dedicated and refined artist of the stage. Both have a dream to see

Akansha glow on the national farmarnent May God bless their dream to become a reality
in future. Akansha Envisages to stage one show per month provided it keeps getting
patronization from the Govt. Love and affection from its patrons and viewers and co-

operation frorn its artists.

All blended togather will fecilitate its path to glory,

’l'h an ks,
(Dr. ASHOK KUMAR SHARMA)
Managing Director
Akansha Theatre Arts
Lucknow

