Se pte m be r l S

Sc ri pt :
Director: K. C. Manavendranath
Presented by : Ankanam, Trichur,—Kerala

SYNOPSl 8
One day a man stumbles into a new society of those who have gone beyond the
human. The society has its own god, prophet, ritual discourses and practices — in

a nutshell, a way of life for itself. Man is an abhorrent creature to them. This society
created by Saint Mrithyunjaya has abolished death and replaced it with murder.
There are two groups who govern alternately through a horrible system of election.
Each group is keen to kill as many as possible from the other and they add up the
exploits of their murdering practice once every five years. The vote is a corpse with
a proven "history". Mrithyunjaya's followers find the unconscious man and mistake
him for a corpse. And then each group claims it as a vote on its account. This causes
conflict, confrontation, legal and medical examination. The man (corpse) is sent to
the forensic centre and also to the court. When he discloses that he is a man, even
the founder of the social order becomes perturbed. Ultimately the man is banished
from the new realm. The play ends with the man pathetically crying, "i am not a
corpse, I am a man” as the torture continues, to turn him into a corpse.
DlRl if. ()R 5 NOTE:

The play is designed to be one hundred percent indigenous and experimental.
The style is determined by the exclusive character of the theme. Production wise
Amara Bhum/ envisages a new concept and practice. What is attempted is a
synthesis of the five basic ingredients of drama— mythical cults, primitive rituals,
traditional norms, modernist moorings and contemporary complexes. While using
indigenous. models and methods we try to, avoid the pitfalls of using tradition as an
indigenous “thing”. We aim at a thorough departure from the derivative assemblage
of a few things from a particular folk form or classical art, which is the common
practice.
The play projects the nascent man's agonising search to know himself and to forge
his image as a human being. My inner artistic credo and impulses prompted me to
take up this challenging work, which is rooted in the Indian ethos and aesthetics.

