Sr: ptern tar l 1 <5

r.a t t a m
Script : Kavalam Narayana Panicker

A Play in Malayalam
Director: Ms. Satheesh
Presented by: Thirnottam, Trivandrurn, Kerala.

SYNOP S l S

The play depicts the experience of a lady caught between reality and illusion.
Kavooty Amma, an aristocratic house-wife is prone to flights of imagination but
when she comes back to earth the harsh realities of her life are too much for her.
She realises the insagnificance of the mundane ‘Kama' in comparison to the higher
values of life that 'Love‘ represents

'Marattam' shows the transformation of characters in a play-like situation. The
three main characters in the play are : ‘Koippattari’, his wife Kavooty Amma and Kelu,
the Kathakali actor.
The theme of the play is the interaction between these three characters in the life
situation and the play situation.

Kelu has a double existence in the play — Kelu the man who has an unattractive
appearance and Kelu the transformed attractive Kathakali character Keechaka, an
embodiment of amour. Kavooty has all love for Kelu when he appears as Keechaka
but she cannot stand the actor himself. On the other hand Koipattari, her husband,
a true lover of Kathakali art likes Kelu for the art he possesses but abhors the
character Keechaka, especially when he sees that his wife is attracted to him. This
creates a conflict between these characters, a play of illusion and reality.

D | R E C T O R ३ 8 NOT E
The play makes use of the motifs of Kathakali and other indigeneous art forms. The
theme of the play 'Marattam' is the transformation of the main character ‘Kavooty
Amma' from the higher level of her ‘Chastity' to the lower mundane ‘Kama’. I try to
show the hidden nature of the mind of the woman towards her ‘Chastity, and ‘Kama'.
CA".T

C PFD|TS

Redhukkal—Shaji, Jendhir, Unnikrishnan Nair, Kumar, Biju, Aiit Kurnar, Vinayan,
Raveendran, Viswan,/ Chandran——Sivanandan/ Kaman—Anil Kumar/ Koyippattari
—Gopa|krishna
Nair/
Kavooty
Amma—Sheeba
Rani/
Keecriakari——Kirori
Parameshwaran/ Kelu —Mura|i/ Kavooty's Ridiculous — Rajasekharan Nair/ Lighting
—Ashraf/ Nair Music — Sivanandan, Sivamohan, Manmohan, Ramakrishna Panicker,
Vijayan/ Costume —- Radhakrishnan Nair, Murali/ Make up - Kochunarayana Pillai,
Anil Kumar/ Stage Designing — Shaji, Vinayan/ Choreography — Kochunarayana
Pillai, Satheesh/ Stage Manager — Sivanandan, Unnikrishnan Nair.

