NOT l B I N OD l N I
For the last seven years, it has been the tradition of Calcutta Presidency
College

Alumni

Association

to

stage a Bengali play on

the

occasion

of

Rabindra Jayanti, the birth anniversary of the poet. It has often been contended by many that, on such a commemorative occasion, only plays or dance-

drarnas of the poet should be staged. No doubt this would in a sense be a
more appropriate way of celebrating the occasion. However, since CPCAAD
attempts to make only one presentation on the stage every year, the choice
of plays has not been so restricted.

The other view has been that possibly

the best means of paying homage to the great poet would be to attempt the
presentation of any good stage play which may have passed the test of literary
excellence in the Bengali theatre. The Bengali theatre has grown in variety,
quality and range since the passing away of the great father-ﬁgure of Bengali
literature and it would probably be in keeping with his wide catholicity of

outlook to broaden our repertory for the beneﬁt of the Delhi audience.
CPCAAD has thus staged plays of Sarat Chandra and Tara Shankar Bandyopadhyay as well as Tagore’s own plays.
This year CPCAAD has chosen for presentation a play which seeks to
take us back to the early days of the Bengali Theatre in the late 19th century
when dramatists like Girish Chandra Ghosh were ﬁghting dedicatedly to lay
the foundations of the professional Bengali stage. Known as "Garrick of
Bengal”, Girish Ghosh was probably tha earliest professional theatrical genius
we had in the country. He was not {only an inspired actor who raised his performances to hitherto unirnaglned heights, but also an innovative playwright,
producer-director, troupe manager at al.

He virtually dedicated his life and

soul to the cause of the Bengali theatre, ﬁrn.ly establishing in the process the
respect of the society for accomplished stage actors and actresses, pioneering
the growth of a number of permanent theatres staging plays throughout the
year and generating in the Bengalee middle class an abiding love and enthusiasm for stage plays. The trail blazed by him was later on followed by a

succession of luminaries in the Thespian world like Sisir Bhaduri, Ahindra
Chowdhury, Nirmalendu Lahiri, Durgadas Bandyopadhyay,
Chhabi Biswas, Snambhu Mitra and Utpal Dutt.

Naresh

Mitra,

What was of particular signiﬁcance amongst the achievements of Girish

Ghosh was his induction of women on the stage and the social recognition
earned by them from the public as gifted artistes. Although in the earlier
days, stage actresses by and large used to come from the community of
“fallen women", many of them turned out to be talented professionals nurtured
by the reigning grandrnasters of their days to high levels of dramatic distinc-

