tion. Actresses like Binodini, Tara Sundari, Probha and Sarajubala have been
compared popularly with international celebrities like Mrs. Siddons, Sarah
Bernhardt and Sybil Thorndike.
This evening’s play—NOTl BlNODINl—is centred around the efforts of
Girish Ghosh to set up a permanent theatre with competent performers and the
emergence of one of the ﬁrst celebrated stage actresses in the Bengali theatre.
The stage and everything that went with it became such a consuming passion
forGirish that he gave up a secure job in a British Company and followed
patron after patron to translate his dream into reality. He was not really inconsiderate towards his wife Surat Kurnari, an unusually understanding woman

who believed equally strongly in the mission of her husband. But his wholehearted attachment to the world of the stage, accentuated by his addiction to
the bottle, made him often unmindful of his domestic responsibilities. As soon
as he met and sized up Binodini, he saw a great future for her on the stage

and did all he could do as Pygmalion to give life and soul to the Galatea of
his imagination.

He was also at the same time disturbed by an unsuspected

religious strain within himself.

Allhough he

would

publicly proclaim his

contempt for "a religious charlatan like Shri Ramakrishna”, he felt strongly
and helplessly drawn towards him. Shri Ramakrishna was extremely fond of
him and blessed him in his venture to bring in a new era in the Bengali theatre.
When Shri Ramakrishna left his mortal body, Girish was overwhelmed by a

profound sense of frustration and guilt.
mooring in life.

He felt he had altogether lost his

The death of Girish’s wife came as part of his final tragedy.

In those days, Binodini’s intense determination to give up her 'lile of sin’
and devote herself wholeheartedly to the theatre was an unusually bold one.
To her mother and Babu admirers, the cynical truism that mattered was : Once
a fallen woman, always a fallen woman LShe had steeled her heart to cast aside
her only true love, Ranga Babu, in order to serve the stage exclusively
.

But

when Gurmukh Rai, an affluent businessman from Punjab, agreed to build
a
new theatre for Girish and his troupe only on the condition of securing
Binodini as his mistress, she had no Sir Galahad on her side. Even Girish,
after a
brief struggle with his conscience, buried his scruples and endorsed Gurmukh
Rai's proposals. Binodini was thus sacriﬁced en the altar of expediency.
in a
sense she martyred herself to serve the Bengali theatre.

It was only after she

was blessed by Shri Ramakrishna after one of her moving performances
that
she became a religious devotee and soon gave up her stage career prematurely
to be united with Ranga Babu.
The play is as much the tragedy of Glrish as of Binodini. The birth pangs
of the professional Bengali theatre were the outcome of their shared suffering
and of many others like them who are no longer remembered. If their names
have been writ in water, their efforts happily have not been in vain.
~A. K. Dutt

