In 1953, when people in Chandigarh were living practically in ‘huts’ Mr. H. S. Dilgir
felt the need of introducing cultural activities in the then dull and dreary atmosphere of the
town. He organised a musical evening which sparked off need for more such programmes.
Since then he has been regularly feeding this ‘ground’ with more and still better programmes.
In 1965, after an absence of some four years, he returned to Chandigarh from the
U. S. A., and realising a need for an institution which could impart education in Theatre
Arts and Classical Dance and thereby present the culture of the State in its true form he
founded Kala Darpan. It was with this idea that the renowned dance-director of Indian
films, Guru Gian Shankar, was brought to Chandigarh from Bombay by Mr. Dilgir.

Kala

Darpan is the only institution of performing arts in the States of Punjab, Haryana, H. P. and
Chandigarh which has produced students who have been nationally acclaimed.
Kala Darpan School of Theatre Arts troupe is one of the few top-ranking troupes of
the country which have often been invited to present their plays in States, other than their
native State. So far, we have presented our plays in 6 States and 2 Union Territories.
*This institution is doing a yecman’s service in the cause of preservation of our culture
and the promotion of art . . I hope they will go all over India and make whole of India understand and appreciate the work done by them.
-Dr. D. C. Pavate, Governor, Punjab.

*Kala Darpan is playing an important role in the cultural life of this beautiful city.

— Governor, Dharma Vira.
* I congratulate the organisers and the members of Kala Darpan, Chandigarh for taking
न
a commendable step for promotion 0f classical music.

—Dr.' B. N. Chakravarty, Governor, Haryana.
*Kala Darpan stands at the top of those institutions which. propagate the culture of
Punjab through cultural programmes. '1 he prominent aspect of the institution is that beSides
presenting cultural programmes, it is engaged in the research of the cultural heritage of the

Punjab.

—Navbharat Times, May 1, 1970.

*All the Punjabis are proud of the work being done by Kala Darpan and its talented
artists to revive and propagate the centuries old culture of .PunJab. In recognition ofthetr
work we have the pleasure to present two gold medals to their artist ,I K: Pree't Pratima Kaui
—-S. Meharban Singh Dhupia, Gen. Secretary, International PUI‘IjabI Socrety, New Delhi.

*Second time when I was impressed by the powerful force of art was when Mr. Dilgir
—S. Kirpal Sinin Narang, V. C. , Punjabi Unwersrty.
presented a programme at Patiala.

