C E NTU Rl E S OF THEATRE
One can talk of theatre's ancient origins and roots in the remote
past. And one can point out that somewhat mysteriously the origins can be
rediscovered in the present and the roots relocated in the present moment.
Theatre is a withering art: it keeps on dying while it takes life before us.|t is
mortal in a very direct way. And yet it survives. it cannot be repeated:
all
art resists repetition. But it can be done again, anew-the same text and not
quite. The same conventions may be and yet pulsating with new meanings
and discoveries. The prison of Denmark becomes the prison of our time and
space. A scream of classical hero travels across centuries and inspite of the
archaisrn, the costume and the decor speaks to us about a truth which is
ours, which is of here and now. Theatre supercedes history to gather us all
in an eternity of being human.
.
Rangmandal, the resident repertory of Bharat Bhavan, the multi—arts
complex at Bhopal, has in all modesty set for itself the objective of bringing
to you centuries of theatre. Of course, it carries the burden of a somewhat
thin tradition of organised urban theatre in Hindi. But it has reached out to
the rich resource of vibrant theatre traditions of the regional dialects. It is not
just picking up a few conventions. Perhaps for the first time Rangmandal is
a professional group where there are actual folk performers as members of
the troupe along with urban actors drawn from big and small towns of Madhya
Pradesh. It is perhaps for the first time ever that Kalidas has been produced
in Bundelkhandi, Beckett brought home in Chhattisgarhi and Brecht reenacted
in Bundelkhandi. For instance, a classic of Shudrak or Kalidas, produced in
a dialect provides for a new tension, a teasing and almost deflating relationship
with the classic. The classic so domesticated attains new theatrical meaning.
There are more than 27 full length productions done by Rangmandal
in its brief period of existence of 4 years. It has been exposed to different
style and vision of more than 10 directors. It performs regularly in three
auditoria and other spaces in Bharat Bhavan and has toured most of the
districts of Madhya Pradesh including interior regions of Bastar.
A young vibrant repertory whose repertoire covers a vast span of time
from the ancient Sanskrit and Greek to the present times, Rangmandal
brings to you with hope and humility centuries of theatre-a new intensity of
being human in multiple, engaging and theatrical ways.

