MAN | F E ST0
The aim of Rangmandal, Bharat Bhavan IS not to present plays
1
only. This institution believes in continous practice, so that its members become
partners in total theatre experience and altogether new dimension of theatre
could be discovered
The aim of Rangmandal is to build a theatre rnevernent, and not a
2.
sporadic activity; which could relate itself With the whole environment.
Rangmandal believes in the richness and development of local theatre and
drama styles, so that they are strengthened and their distinct identity is better
recognised. Organisation of drama festivals in the dialects and styles of the
stage is a part of the Rangmandal's projects.
Rangmandal believes that the strength of theatre lies in its localism
3.
and indigenism. Rangmandal believes that the temperament and complexion
of our theatre should be local and its spirit should be Indian.
Instead of standard Hindi Rangmandal believes in Hindi which takes
4.
different forms in contact with the dialects of a perticular place. As the character
of theatre is local, Rangmandal believes that colloquial flavours and dialects
have an important place in theatre.
Rangmandal accepts the proscenium form of threatre but feels the
5.
limitations of this confinement and wants to release these confines, take it to
the parks, the lakeside, the mountain slopes, courtyards, buildings, street corners
and any of these could well serve as stage.
Rangmandal believes in theatre-experiments. However, if the
6.
experments are not relevant in theatre among people, it is essential that an
aesthetic balance should be maintained between experimentation and
conventional but popular elements of theatre.
Rangmandal is not only a theatre company. It has to become a
7.
training institute where an actor becomes a theatre trainer and in the coming
years the theatre training programme progresses intensively.
The popular theatre styles and performance styles are still relevant for
8.
theatre. Rangmandal is cornmited to apply these styles with modern sensibility.
Lack of the sense of appreciation, lack of the knowledge of the history
9.
of drama and lack of the power of criticism are the weak points of theatre.
Rangmandal believes that besides developing the quality of acting in the
actors, these three qualities should also be incdlcated in them.
Theatre cannot be found in books. Theatre is born everyday and dies
10.
everyday. It is the distinctiveness of the medium. But lack of record of theatre
is unfortunate. In the absence of evidence, its history cannot be known
Rangmandal believes that authentic evidence—recording of the theatre activities
must be done.
Rangmandal has a live contact and communication with the
11.
playwrights of Hindi and other Indian languages, and is committed to present
in Hindi important plays of Indian and world literatures.
12.
Rangmandal hopes to organise theatre camps for theatrernen of the
state at Bhopal and outside. It hopes to give performanes in far off villages
and organise theatre-festivals at various places.
13.
It is essential for the theatreman to have awareness and understanding
of not only of India but also of Asia and the world. Rangmandal will endeavour
for such education in theatre history.
14.
Rangmandal hopes to make sustained efforts for making intense
and interdisciplinary relations of theatre with other art media, real and vital.

