PU RVARAN G A
In the ancient Indian theatre before the actual performance of the play
started the preliminaries were gone through for the pr'opitiation of the deities
and the appeasement of evil spirits. In the concluding part, the audience was
entertained and the drama and dramatist introduced. The Purvaranga was so
called because it was performed prior to the actual commencement of the
play. Natyashashtra mentions Nineteen items in connection with the
Purvaranga. The first nine were to be performed behind the curtain and
remaining, after the curtain was removed. The first nine items to be performed
behind the curtain were mainly connected with the instrumental music. Then
after removing the curtain, dances and recitals were presented accompanied
by the playing of all instruments.

In our times publicity of the performances advertisements, brochures,
souvenirs, and stage inspection by stage manager etc. are the contemporary
means of Purvaranga. But for Rangmandal Purvaranga means something
more. Rangmandal believes in continuous practice, so that its members becomes
partners in total theatre experience and altogether new dimensions of theatre
could be discovered. The Purvaranga of Rangmandal means non-production
oriented training workshops by contemporary theatre mastros and folk-tribal
gurus for Rangmandal artists which ultimately is related with non—stop creative
search and continuously discovery of unknown rnagics of theatre performance.
In this regard Rangmandal has also improvised a Purvaranga stage in Bharat
Bhavan on which the artists of Rangmandal perform after their training and
involve the Bharat Bhavan’s visitors with theatre.
In the festival we are putting 3 items of our Purvaranga, viz. Vararuchi's
Sanskrit bhana Ubhayabhisarika a part of Chaturbhani, in Bundeli dialect
directed by B.V.Karanth, Ustad Kaluram,s Maach Chandrakala Surajkaran
in Malwi dialect trained by Guru Om Prakash Sharma and Chattisgarhi
Pandavani recital trained by Guru Poonaram Nishad. We hope these items
would be able to reflect our training process and involve the audience of
Bombay as well.

