The Student Multinational
AIESEC-pronounced 'eye-sec' - is the French acronym for L' Association Internationale
des Etudients en Sciences Economiques et Commerciales is the world's largest international
studentforganisation.
With its International Headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, AIESEC is
a non profit, non poltical, completer students-run organisation with local committees in
over 300 universities in 58 countries repersenting all continents.

Started by 7 North European countries in 1948 amidst the debris that was the legacy
left behind by the Second World War, its main objective was to act as a bridge between the

student, academic and business communities of various nations in order to foster international understanding and awareness. Through the various programmes of the Association

such as the International Traineeship seminars, contact talks, summer school training
programmes and twinning, these groups receive the opurtunity to enhance their awareness
of other aspects of business and its problems, locally and internationally. The awarances
and understanding the students gain through this interaction is an investment in the future
progress and global harmony to which the students of today will be able to contribute.

Our biggest programme is the International Traineeship Exchange Programme which
allows students to participate in a practical work exoerience in a foreign enviorment, for
which they are paid in their fields of business endeavour. These traineeships may last any
where from 6 weeks to 18 months in a country of the students choice. The main objective
of this programme is to provide a pool of internationally trained managers of the future.
The practical experience they receive in atraineeship should compliment their theoretical
course work while instilling in them a sense of awareness of the similarities and differences
of another culture and the problems which they face in that enviorment.

AlESEC-~ Ind. the Indian chapter of AIESEC became an identity in October 1980 and
though the newest member of the organisation, has already achieved a lot in the past six
months of its existence.

This summer, eleven Indian students will be going to various parts of the world
'0 Work in lowing Companies.

Ranging from Australia down south to Norway un north,

the students going to these countries will all be getting tha opnuritunity to rmin practical
imamaﬁonal management experience. This is a quality which Indian management, With
its industries ever increasing thrust into the international markets, will
require.

