Haiti.

दृ f' दृ: न
३" '३३“w

’ IL” 0

RIVENI STORY

तोम------- V कि_ _.-

L...“MEound‘ed in I 9 ' l , with two students,

a donation of rupees one
hundred in twomorns on top of a Coffee House in Connaught Circus,
Triveni today is a full fledged institution, devoted to the promotion of
three arts namely, Dance, Music and Painting.
Housed in two buildings of its own on Tansen Marg, beautifully
designed by Messrs Joseph Allen

Stein, Triveni to-day

has on its

roll over 300 students who get their instructions under best of the
teachers in fully equipped studios.

The open air theatre of Triveni, one

small airconditioned auditorium, two art galleries for exhibitions and one
permanent gallery for art and literature, a small library and tea terrace
provide

additional stimulation for young creative minds.

Apart from the regular training in Arts Triveni conducts courses
entitled ’Introduction to Indian culture' in two separate series i. e.

in India" and “Humanities in India".
history,

dance,

music,

painting,

literature and philosophy.

“Arts

These series cover subjects like

drama, sculpture,

Lectures are given

language,

religion,

by eminent speakers on

the subject who are specially invited and wherever necessary the talks
are illustrated as need may be. Triveni also
twice a year in Ikebana flower arrangement.

conducts a short course

'

Besides this, TriVeni has a permanent performing unit of Manipuri

dancers who have done very commendable work in creating new ballets
based on Manipuri technique, this has won them a special grant from the
Government of India, Ministry of Education under their scheme ’Financial

Assistance to Dance, Drama and Threatre ensembles' in recognition of
the distinctive contribution made by the Organisation for the promotion

of performing arts. Triveni Ballet has been abroad four times and
performed in Europe, Middle East, Russia, USA. and other countries.
Their last tour lasted four and half months round the world starting at
the World Fair in Osaka (Japan) in I970.

S U N DAR l K. S H R I D H A R AN l
Honorary Di rector

