At around 60 years of age when
ty.
children~a son and a daughter-—to respectabili
up with the changing times, he
Belwalkar realised that he was no more being able to cope
quietly retired to his native village Morwadi.
again recalled almost forcibly
Marathi audience never forgot Belwalkar. He was once
oniously conferred with the title of
by his admirers from the self exile, this time to be cerern
sum of money.
'Nata-Samrat’, the king of the theatre, and a gift of a substantial
gratefully
Here on stage, Nata—samrat, faces his beloved audience once again. He
ions had
acknowledges the reSpect shown him and reveals that for him material acquisit
theatre.
never compared with the wealth of creativity, he had discovered in the world of
him,
He tells them that he is a thoroughly satisfied man now with a happy family around
equally
but he finds the gift of money a buden and wants to be relieved of it by dividing it

between his daughter and son.
Disburdening himself thus Belwalkar and his wife live with their son and his wife for 12
years totally dependent on them. The son had spent his share of the money to buy a flat
and had in his own way tried to take care of his old parents. But Belwalkar's haphazard
way of life and arrogant behaviour breed disharmony and discord. In a moment of outburst
the son and his wife declare that they would not be ready to put with the whims of the
old man any more.

Belwalkar rebels, not Belwalkar the man who is losing authority but Belwalkar the
actor, the ireator who refuces to accept his son's extremely urbane, decent but mundane
and vegetating life. They leave for their daughter‘s house, bidding farewell to their only
hope, Nanhi, their grand daughter.

The daughter and son—in-law lead a busy life deposing the responsibility of the old
couple on a selter like servant called Bithova who happend to be a cook of a drama group.
Belwalkar enjoys moments of happiness with this great devotee of his.

But the

proverbial

temperament of the ’King‘ raises its head again.

Kalonkar, his son~in-law’s boss who is also directing the play Hamlet to be staged
by the officer's recreation club comes to meet Belwalkar and in course of their conversation
dares to belittle Ganpatrao Joshi, the legendary theatre personality of yester years. Thoroughly roused at the dishonour of his Guru, Belwalkar insults Kalonkar.

Nalu, Belwalkar's daughter. decides
distance from their world,

to keep

her parents in the outhouse, at a safe

