DIRECTOR'S NOTE
”Stories are what you are. They are where you come from and how you were made. Stories are why
things are as they are, and how they came to be. They are the whole world, and everything beyond the
world, and it 's time you knew what they were. Sit Listen. ”
From a play written by a 15 year old

When I first read Ariel Dorfman's play this summer, I was moved to tears by the beauty and the truth
of the situation that he captured. In a language which though extremely simple, had both poetry and
rhythm. it was only when I put down the script did i realise that it was not about Kashmir or Punjab at
all, but about Chile - a country of which we know so little in India. And that one thought led to another.
That todays world is shot through with variations on a similar theme - whether in Chile, Bosnia or our
own country. It is as though humanity refuses to learn anything from history. And it is for this reason
that the stories must be told repeatedly.

"My writing has been haunted, ever since / can remember; by twin obsessions, a central paradox that
/ oannnot be rid of : on the one hand, the glorious potential and need of human beings to tell stories;

and, on the other; the brutal fact that, in today’s world, most of the lives that should be telling stories
are generally ignored, ravaged and silenced. "
Ariel Don‘man

The rehearsal process with the 18 strong cast has been magical - as we collectively responded to
the pain and deep anguish and suffering Dorfman had obviously felt as he wrote this piece. Using
collective brainstorming and improvisation we created many of the images - visual and aural - that
you see on the stage this evening. The wonderfully varied cast - from age 14 - 45 have enriched the
rehearsal process, and at best I have been their orchestra conductor!

"The security forces on patrol crossed the length of the lane. At the other end stood young Shafiq

crying loud/y, beseeching his mother; Boba. An officer; walked over to comfort the child. "Son, do not
be afraid. ” Boba interjected, 'He's not afraid, the silly fool. He wants your gun. Whenever he sees a
soldier; he wants his gun’. The officer; recoiled, muttering, ’terrorist, scoundrel, ’ and walked brisk/y
back to be among his own kind. "
Translated from Kashmiri - a story by Akhtar Mohiuddin

