NOTE BY THE PLAYWRIGHT
The origins of this play go back twenty years.
है had been forced to leave Chile in 1973 after General Augusto Pinochet had seized power and had,
since then, wandered through several countries until finally settling down in 1976 in Holland. It was
there, in Amsterdam, that the story which remains at the core of The Women first came to me.
I was working on a painful series of poems about the missing, men and women who, snatched from

their homes by the secret police in the silence of the night, are never heard of again, their bodies
denied to their relatives as if they had never existed. As I wrote, I could feel myself being turned into
a bridge through which the living and the dead were trying to communicate, a burial mound where they
could meet and mourn and touch. By allowing the voices of the disappeared and the families waiting
for their return to speak to each other using my faraway words I was also finding a way of going back
myself to the faraway country where my own body and, of course, these very words I was writing,
were forbidden, placing myself imaginatively in that place I had escaped, that story I could not share
except as a witness, except as a channel for those voices which seemed to be taking possession of
my throat.

One night - it was early, just after dinner - l was visited by an image, almost a halucination: an old
woman by a river, holding the hand of a body that had just washed up on its shores. And the certainty
that this scene had happened before, that this was not the first time that river had yielded a dead man
to the arms of that old and twisted woman.

I wrote all night, the same poem over and over again, trying to hear that woman I had invented and
who nevertheless seemed to have a life of her own, I spent those long dark European hours trying to
drag that woman out of the darkness inside me, the darkness on the other side of the world where she
lay trapped in oblivion and indifference, | sat there and tried to understand word for word what she was
saying and that so few in the alien world I unwillingly lived in, seemed to care about. And by dawn, a

new poem, almost like a new born child, was there on the table where we ate our meals.
So. It was done. The old woman had a presence, she had been given a voice, she was free to roam the

earth in that poem and speak her lines. I had done my job. Now it was up to her to do hers.

Except that the old woman was not content with this. I n the fictitious universe of poetry she had defied
that captain and now she would not leave me alone in my own unfortunately quite existent historical

universe of exile.
As the years went by, I could not rid myself of the certainty that there was more, much more, to her
story than what । had written, that in the poem I had merely grazed the outer skin of that pain, the
fierce determination of hers not to let the captain bury her dead, and that she wanted me to go deeper,
she wanted the world to know what happened before, what happened afterwards, she wanted - in brief

- to be narrated, told in time, filled with a world and filling it. That old woman wanted a destiny and she
would not rest until I had given it to her.

a play.
It was this experience that Ariel Dorfman first turned into a novel, and subsequently into

