R U C H I KA
Ruchika Theatre Group is one of Delhi's leading theatre groups. Ever since its inception in
1972 it has regularly presented a season of at least six new productions every year.

The focus has always been on plays of social relevance—whether they are performed in English,
Hindi or Urdu. These have included works by Euripides, Chekhov, Turgenev, Ibsen, Strindberg,
Camus, Satre, Arthur Miller, Edward Albee, Pinter, Bond, Fo, Mrozek and several others.

Among the Indian authors we have presented are Mohan Rakesh, Vijay Tendulkar, Girish
Karnad, Mahasweta Devi, Badal Sarkar etc. Many productions have won awards and several
of our members have become well known names on the large and small screen. These include
Alok Nath, Sohaila Kapur, Neena Gupta, Pawan Malhotra, Rajesh Khattar, Harsh Chaya,

Ashish Roy among the actors and actresses, Anil Mehta, the cameraman and Bina Venugopal,
the editor .... in the last few years Ruchika has brought to Delhi audiences an exclusive
production for the Taj Supper Theatre, three world theatre classics, the premiere of two original
plays, a tour of Mumbai, Pune and Hongkong and the Panchtantra, the first in a series of
plays that Ruchika hopes to bring young audiences. Our last production was the highly
appreciated Rishte Naate that won an award as one of the best plays of 1 998. Since 1 996 we
have started a training programme for children,and to date over 250 children have been

members of the Little Actors Club. The productions prepared by the participating members
include Alibaba & Alladin, Man Born to be King and Raunaqpur Ke Bachche.
From January we join hands with seven other leading groups in Delhi and the Natrang Pratisthan,

to present ‘Natrang Weekend Theatre. Under this project for a five month period (Jan- May ‘99)
one of these groups will be performing every weekend at the Bipin Chandra Pal Auditorium,
Chittaranjan Park. This will give South Delhi audience a chance to see quality theatre in their
own neighbourhood.
Other productions scheduled for this season include Telling Wilde Tales in December at The

British Council; The Women in January and Rishte Needs in February at B. C. Pal Auditorium
C. R. Park and David Hare's new play Skylight. All productions directed by Feisal Alkazi.

