ईस्वी ० - हैं ०१ L,

नंगृच्माक्च e

दृ

८- क्षाम्भदृअस्थ्यओं~आट्वेड्स३ .ब्ब yaw. .. ८ k

..._...--....} WWW ... _ … . . . ५ .«k . r ५.… चम-बजाय-मनोम-चब-त्व क्या a. w—Izn a.)

C ' VTUSA'I‘TON N TRIAL
Concept, Scenography & Direction - Sweety Ruhel
“Veni, vidi, vici”
(I came, I saw, I conquered)

rom nation of shopkeepers to a nation of shoppers - the journey has shaken the
foundat n of r socio-economic structure. The cheapest product available in this 'mall culture'
is price t at Rs :0, which is very close to the poverty threshold (Rs.37) that deﬁnes the economic
status 0
e p ople of our country. There is constant downfall in the value of Rupee against
Dollar.
' 11 . ' er 68 years of independence, we are under a debt of $426 billion. ,
We are
ugh n the web of American policies and cultural hegemony, where holding the falling
rupee an u n | ill struggle; where we witness the brutal Nirbhaya rape and murder, then
suddenly ﬁnd urselves caught in Muzzafarnagar riots.
Superpowers - ed bloody wars for their business to thrive.For which,they need to capture
markets of d a eloping countries to maintain their economy. On the way ,of becoming a
superpower, ^ erica has grabbed all the natural resources it could lay its claws on. Iraq, Syria,
Afghanistan -. v- some of the recent casualties, thereéarervmany more bearing the brunt of
३ American neo—imperialist strategies.
The oppressive tendencies of harassment have become a part of our thought process and are
visible through the process of commodiﬁcation of men and women alike. The cultural climate is
deteriorating, particularly for women as we contend with the retrenchment of reproductive
freedom, the persistence of rape culture, and;
awed if not damaging representations of
women we're consuming in music, movﬁiﬁmg eRt‘ure. The business of the 'market' rests upon
the bare shoulders and legs of a womaniii: I" A ५ «x

५

Amongst us there are many who are demandingﬁ) "सां ll ard and seen, with this play we attempt
to make space for the unseen and tune in to‘What we
society chronically tune out.
\

है

J

.

_
_ " ।८
_
National School of Drama FInal Year Diploma Production

DIRECTOR’S NOTE

