FEDERI CO GA RC IA LO RCA
Granada in l 898
In a twenty-year creative span. between his birth at Fuente-Vaqueros near
numerous poems.
and his death in l 936. Federico Garcia Lorca wrote over a dozen plays and
is at least one
Lorca is better known in India as a playwright ; every theatre season. there
Walding. Yer-mu
production of one or the other of his trilogy of tragic plays. comprising Blood
and The House of'Bernarcla Alba.

born in Granada has
At least some part of this resonance is explained by Lorca himself: “Being
the black. the
given me a sympathetic understanding of those who are persecuted - the gypsy.
Jew. the Moor. which all Granadans have inside them.“
ar. earned
Lorca’s early poetry. Poem oft/1e Deep Song and The Gypsy Ballads in particul
between
out
fall
a
to
fact.
in
him the label of ‘ gypsy poet” . which he deeply resented. This led.
him and two of hi s closest friends. Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel.
his native
A visit to New York was to transform Lorca's life and art. For one thing. unlike in
his
land. he did not need to hide his homosexuality. His sojourn in New York was to inspire
theatre groups in
best known poetic work. Poet in New York. Most importantly. contact with

ry Thea—
that city. like the Neighbourhood Playhouse. the Theatre Guild and the Civic Reperto
toyed
had
he
tre. enabled Lorca to take wing as a playwright. refining and polishing the ideas
with earlier.
Lorca saw the Spanish stage as prisoner to the crass commercialism of producers who justi—
. writers
fied their greed on the specious grounds of ‘audience preferences३ . 1f. Lorca believed

and performers remained in the clutches of such producers. the theatre itself would sink a little
not
lower with each passing day. “Theatre.” he wrote. “ought to impose itself on the audience.
the audience on the theatre."
an
Against such money—driven rootlessness. Lorca set the enduring. earthy appeal of the Andalusi
Cantejmzclo. a ' deep son g’ arising from the very bowels of the collective unconscious. "Comte
jomlo." he wrote. ‘ ‘li ke the primitive Indian musical systems. is a stammer. a wavering emission
of the voice. a marvellous buccal undulation that smashes the resonant cells of our tempered

scale. eludes the cold. rigid staves of modern music
The rediscovery of Cantejondo prompted Lorca to explore the nature and dimensions of
what the people of Andalusia referred to as cluemle. when describing the mysterious 'extra‘
quality of musicians who stood apart from their peers. despite having similar voices and tech—
nique. "Duemlef‘ wrote Lorca. "is not a question of ability. but of true. living style, of blood.
of the most ancient culture. of spontaneous creation
Although Lorca spoke ofcluemle in the context of song. spoken poetry and dance. the i rnpl i —
cations of the concept for the theatre are clear. The quest of the actor. the true actor. is a daily

invocation to God to be invested with (lttemle. Only that quality will enable the actor to
grapple with the elemental passions of the theatre. specifically the theatre of Lorca.

