THE HOUSE OF BERNARDA ALBA

The House ofBemarda Alba. the last of a trilogy of tragic plays, also brought to an end the
cycle of rural drama in Lorca‘s work. Unlike in Blood Wedding and Yerma, in Bermuda

Alba Lorca the lyrical poet restrains his natural, effusive outpourings and presents us instead
with a stark, powerful household drama of a domineering mother and her five unwed daugh—
ters .
In a pathbreaking act of theatrical dexterity, the playwright ensures that the central character,
Pepe el Romano, never appears on the stage. Yet his presence is a reality that pervades every
inch of the theatrical space, a chilling intimation of the charms and dangers of the world outside
that seeps into the consciousness of Bernarda’s daughters.
Central to the play is the confrontation of wills. Bernarda is resolute in maintaining the patriar—
chal order: “Thus it was in my father’s home, and thus too in my grandfather’s. And thus it will
remain . " Such conviction is not enough, alas, to arm Bernarda against the stirrings she senses
among her daughters. As rnutinous rumbles begin to be heard, she takes recourse to the only

methods known to the authoritarian - repression and denial. The exercise of violence is set to
the constant refrain of. “Nothing is going on here!”
Lorca deftly contrasts Bernarda’s refusal to acknowledge reality with the lucidity of the family
retainer. La Poncia, who has lived and worked with the family all her life. In a telling comment
on the nature of feudal relationships, Poncia’s equation with Bernarda combines abject sub—
mission with irreverent outbursts, unquestioning obedience with resentful insubordination, ten—
derness and warmth with hatred and venom. At the threshold separating submission from
rebel 1 ion. La Ponci a seems to typify the masses who fear change with as much intensity as they
resent the present.
But change is not to be thwarted, neither by La Poncia’s indecision nor by Bernarda’s i ntran—
sigence. Long repressed. the spirit of freedom surges forth in the house of Bernarda Alba:
freedom of a basic. elemental kind - freedom to laugh, freedom to show and receive affection ,
freedom to love and be loved, freedom to determine what one must do with one’s own body.

freedom to set the course of one’s life.
The quest for such freedom comes at a high price. Adela, Bernarda’s youngest daughter, stills
the breath of life with the very cord, so to speak, that Bernarda uses to bind her brood. As

Bernarda struggles to come to terms with the consequences of her own dispensation, she must
recognize too another Bernarda in the making - Martirio. her second youngest daughter, whose
desire to possess her sister's lover. to become Adela, propels her towards a cal lousness, a
cruelty even her mother may not have conceived.
Could this be emblematic of the Spanish Civil War, when the old order yielded its place not to
the forces of freedom but to a regressive, inward—looking dictatorship, a thousand times more
repressive and cruel than the old?

