Sangeet Natak Akademi
Sangeet Natak Akademi, India’s national academy
for music, dance and drama, is the ﬁrst national
academy of the arts set up in 1952 by the Republic
of India. The ﬁrst President of India, Dr Rajendra
Prasad, inaugurated it on 28 January 1953 in a
special function held in the Parliament House.

Since its inception the Akaderni has been functioning
as the apex body for the performing arts in the
country, presen/ing and promoting the vast
intangible heritage of India’s diverse culture
expressed in the many forms of music, dance and
drama. In furtherance of its objectives, the Akademi
collaborates with the governments and arts
academies of the different States and Territories of
the Union of India, as also with major cultural
institutions in the country. The Akademi also
establishes and looks after institutions and projects
of national importance in the ﬁeld of performing
arts. It organizes performances of music, dance, and
theatre; gives awards in recognition of individual
artistic or scholarly achievement; subsidizes the work
of institutions engaged in teaching, performing or
promoting music, dance, or theatre; gives grants-inaid for research, documentation, and publishing in
the performing arts; organizes and subsidizes
seminars and conferences of subject specialists;
documents and records the performing arts for its
audio-visual archive; maintains a reference library
and a gallery of musical instruments; and publishes
literature on relevant subjects on a small scale.

Sangeet Natak Akademi also renders advice and
assistance to the Government of India in the task of
formulating and implementing policies and
programmes in the ﬁeld. Additionally, the Akademi
carries a part of the responsibilities of the state for
fostering cultural contacts between various regions
in India, and between India and the world.‘
The Akademi manages two national institutions of
dance, the Jawaharlal Nehru Manipur Dance
Academy in Irnphal and the Kathak Kendra in New
Delhi, as its constituent units. The National School of
Drama in Delhi was originally yet another
constituent unit of the Akademi.
Sangeet Natak Akaderni is an autonomous body of
the Ministry of Tourism and Culture, and is fully
funded by the Government for implementation of its
schemes and programmes.

