Paramparik Natya Samaroh
Traditional theatreforms. though varied linguistically. are characterized
by severalfeatures which they share in common. if they happen to
display a wide variety ofpresentational styles. they also possas
important narrative and contextual similarities, a high level ofstylization
and ritualized performance traditions. Epics, the Puranas. the regional
folk-tales and ballads, form a common thread.
All the varied traditions seem to have an inbuilt mechanism of
acceptance of change, of modiﬁcation and dynamism, within a welldeﬁned system of unity in their artistic vision. This also raults in
continuity despite the changes through the centuries.

Sangeet Natak Akaderni has planned an important series offativals of
traditional theatres of India to be presented in the north-eastem Stat5
including Sikkim. More than 25 importantforms of traditional andfolk
theatrefrom dﬁjerent States will befeatured together with traditional
forms of the rapective States of the North-East. These will include such
well-known traditions as Tamasha of Maharashtra, Bhavai of Gujarat
Yakshagana of Karnataka, Therukoothu of Tamil Nadu, Nautanki of
Uttar Pradesh, Prahlad Natak of Orissa, and so on. Together with
performances, there will be Iecture-demonstrations and interaction
sessions with local theatre workers and scholars.
Theﬁrst phase of thefestivals in the series will be held at Guwahati,
Dibrugarh, Tezpur (Assam), Dimapur (Nagaland), Imphal (Manipur),
Shillong (Meghalaya), and Itanagar (Arunachal Pradesh).

We do hope that thefestival will have a signiﬁcant impact both in terms
of national integration through the arts and development of theatre
traditions in the region. In this process, the youth of the North -East would
conceivably have an important role to play. We have been fortunate to
receive the collaboration of all the State Governments of the region and
also the North -East Zone Cultural Centre, Dimapur. The Department of
Culture, Government ofAssam, is playing a major role in co-ordinating
thefestival not only in Assam but also in the other States.

Theﬁrst phase of thefestival in this series is being heldfrom 28 March to
1 1 April, 2003; the second phase willfollow‘ soon in the States of Tiipura,
Mizoram and Sikkim.
The Paramparik Natya Samaroh is presented on the occasion of the
golden jubilee of Sangeet Natak Akademi, which is being celebrated
through various programmes all over the country. We trope the audience
in the north-eastern States of India would be pleased with our present
effort.
JAYANT KASTUAR
Secretary, Sangeet Natak Akademi

