के
HE 'Drama—Festival-Souvenir iS appearing on the auspicious occasion
है छू! of the formation of our new State—Gujarat. Let us all pledge and
“ dedicate ourselves to the service of Gujarat and lndia and pray the
Almighty, to lead kindly light to enable us to follow the ideals of सत्ये 'शिवं सुन्दरम्-

We are very happy that Dr. Jivraj Mehta, the first Chief—Minister of the State
of Guiarat. has kindly consented to inaugurate the Drama— Festival.
We are equally happy. that Dr. Humayun Kabir, Minister of Scientific Research
and cultural Affairs,
presence.

Government of

lndia.

has graced the occasion with his august

We express our sincere thanks to H. H. Shrirnant Maharaja Fatehsinhrao
Gaekwar. our President of the Drama — Festival - committee. for taking keen interest
in the day to day work of the Drama — Festival and encouraging us.

The publication of this

Souvenir at the hands of a great educationalist. a

scholar and a connoisseur like Dr. Humayun Kabir, adds to the happiness and pride of

it’s sponsors.

च

A Souvenir of this type is inconceivable without the cooperation and goodwill.

of the people. Our thanks are due to the contributors who have given valuable
material to make it a success.
No less important is the financial side. ln this respect, I thank Shri Nanubhai
B. Amin, Managing Director, the Jyoti Ltd., who gave filip to the Drama-Festival by
granting ' us all necessary aids. I thank our Donars and Advertisers for encouraging
us by liberality contributing their share. in making this Drama Festival a great success.
I also thank the University Authorities for their valuable cooperation.
My special thanks to Shri Ramanbhai B. Amin, Managing Director, Alembic
Chemical Works Co. Ltd., for his kind donation and a rnagnificient contribution
by way of taking over the entire responsibility of the Souvenir and arranging for its
printing at the Alembic Press.— Once again, I thank Shri Ramanbhai Amin, for taking
keen and personal interest in the publication of the Souvenir.

My thanks are also due to Prof. V. D. Salgavker for his valuable suggestions.
I thank Shri Haridas D. Barai. Manager of the Alembic Press for bringing
out the Souvenir Volume in an attractive form in a short time, desPite the heavy

preasure of work.

'

I thank the members of the Souvenir-Committee for their willing cooperation.

Ra m esh Bh att,
-— Ed i tor.

l7

