Unfortunatly the Theatres were repidly being converted in to Cinema Houses
and the remaining. due to neglect were reduced to ruins— old. decayed and dead
monuments of the bygone—glory of the Professional Theatres. - Very soon they were
completely “demolished from their very foundations—leaving hardly any trace of their
existence. This happened in Baroda and has happened elsewhere in the country.
New Theatres for old

The Amateurs of Baroda had no Theatre. no good hall or auditorium. yet
undaunted they continued their ' experiments. in play-Production and successfully tried
to create a small group of ' Sarudhya—Prekshaka’. They impressed upon the Government
and the Local self Government authorities. that the 3Theatre is as essential to a
community as a public school, park or library.
The progressive Municipality and the citizens of Baroda at once responded to this call. and they soon formed committees to study the spot-location. type of Theatre
and to go in to the details of Theatre-construction. At first the ‘ Dipak—Open—Air
Theatre '. (where we are holding our Festival) was constructed and then within a few
years — " The Gandhi Nagar Gruha'.
'

But this is not all. There is - a great and urgent need of a Theatre which is
not ‘ multipurpose‘. but purely a Theatre for Drama and play presentation. with all
the modern and Scientific Theatrical equipments. with rooms for rehearsals and a small
work-shop. a Drama Reference-Library. with ‘ more comfortable seats and a few more
amenities for the audience.
'
"
BARODA DEMANDS ONE SUCH THEATRE.

After Independence. the Indian Theatre is making rapid progress in almost all
parts of the country. Encouragement comes from the central. as well as State-Govern-A
ments in form of country wide competitions. awards and prizes.
. ३

Neverthless, it is not at many places that Dramatics is studied systematically
in theory as well as. in practice. In answer to this need. the Department of Dramatic
s
came in to existence, as a regular part of the college of lndian Music. Dance and Dr
amatics

of the University of Baroda.

Madhastha—Natyd-Sangha

There. was a long felt need of a central Theatre organisation of the people
of
Baroda. which can coordinate and bring together the different Theatr
e groups and create '
I a spirit of kinship amongst them.

_

, ‘-

Efforts were made in this direction ten years ago, to establish
such a central
organisation. Eight meetings were _ held of all the amateurs of Baroda
and Theatre
lovers but nothing substential came out, except that the artists
came nearer and knew
on

e another better.

'

Today, young and enthusiastic artists of Baro
da have been यत्: to form

32

