THROUGH THE ClTY OF BARODA
By
Dr. R. N. Mehta
Department of Archaeology, M. S. University of Baroda.

BARODA (22° l7’ 55" North and 73° l5’ 8“ East), district town in the
Gujarat State, has a long history of at least 3000 years. It started its career as a small
camping-place for the hunters and food-gatherers of the prehistoric age; later on it

grew from a small village to become a district town during the Hindu Period. It
enjoyed this position in the Pathan, Gujarat Sultan, and the Moghul rule. Then it became
a state capital during the Maratha period; and now it is a cultural 'centre devoted to
the pursuit of learning, as visualised by Rajarsi Sayaji Rao III, who was responsible for
making it one of tl.e most beautiful cities of Gujarat.

Baroda is a junction on the Western Railway lying two hundred and forty—four
miles to the north of Bombay. From this place the routes to Delhi and Ahrnedabad
bifurcate. As soon as a visitor to this town comes out of the two—storeyed large and
comfortable station, he sees before him a panorama of parks, palatial buildings and well
laid out asphalt roads. Just opposite, in the centre -of this square is a small circular park

with a fine bronze Statue of the late ruler Sayaji Rao lll. From this square vehicles run
to all parts of the city. The main route runs from here in the east—west direction and
is joined by roads coming from the north and the south.

A road, joining the main road from the north near the station, leads to the
industrial area, where the chemical works: the Alembics, Sanitex and Sarabhai Chemicals
are located. Besides these. the Sayaji Cotton Mills, the Sayaji Iron Works, Jyoti Ltd.,
the Model Farm and The Polytechnic are also dispersed in this area.
This road also leads to Pratapganj, a modern residential area developed after
I935 A. D. Another branch of it moves to the office of the Maharaja Sayajirao University
which occupies the old British Resident’s bungalow, a specious building of the l9th
century A. D. In this area are located the large and comfortable Halls of Residence for
the University students. To the east of these halls are quarters for the University
teachers. Beyond them is the Union Pavilion, the University play—ground and the
Swimming Pool. And Shri. Hansa Mehta Hall. The road that runs near this area joins
another road bifurcating from the main road near the Public Park.
The main road leading to the east is divided into two branches by a semi—
rectangular park. These branches are turned into one way traffic routes. The northern
one leads to the City. On this branch are situated well-planned, spacious, beautiful
buildings of the Faculty of Education and Psychology, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Arts,

33

