This only brings home the truth that the sponsors of such performances are
only amateurish, who have not taken this art seriously. if we want to raise the
standards of our productions, it his high time, we remove this ‘amateurishness’ and
know that the various jobs of the back-stage is a craft—an art and is to be mastered
by constant practice, experimentations, and rehearsals, technical rehearsals. That which
is not rehearsed, practiced and tried out. is bound to fail. When the curtain

rises, it

is to late to create a new work of art, Hence the importance of planning, method,—
method in rehearsals.
A play may have only five or ten characters, but there is a production staff

of many, more than ten, whose services are indispensible for the success of the play.
Play production can well be compared with a triangle.

At the top is the author, the

PIaywrigh t

Actors (हूँ Techn’cz'ans

Audience

playwright, who creats the script, the actors and the technicians at the second angle,
who express the ideas of the author and create life, form and colour on the stage. The
audience is the third angle for whom the play is produced and without whom drama is
incomplete and becomes meaningless. In the centre of the triangle, is the Director
standing. He unites, and coordinates the creative efforts of the actors and the techni-

cians. The Director has achieved and occupied the central position by his own right.

The Director having his materials in cold pages of a play, with the help of the
actors and technicians, creates a living drama for the audience.
The director's first
and foremost and pious duty is to interpret the playwright. He must understand and
respect the playwright's desires. No Director has a right to say that the playwright is
wrong in projeCting this character or that, or that the piot deveiopment is wrong. In
such a situation the best way for the Director is to select some other play where he
is more agreeable to the playwrights’ interpretation and is in no way conflict with the
playwrights imagination. No Director worth his name, has a right to change, misconceive or distort the playwright's interpretation and meaning.

Under the Director, we have a crew of crafts-men and technicians. These are
the people who dress up the scenes and sets, who operate the lights and manoeuvre the
curtains, who synchronise music and sound effects and dress up the different characters.
Without the c00peration of these technicians and back—stage workers. no play can ever
meet with SUCCQ)S. Without production staff and its services, play production is just
impossible It would be like a ship without a rudder, b0und to be lost in a lonely sea
and crack.

44

