It is the Director, who is and must be the final authority in this art. It would
prove a criminal waste of time and money to try to work without the Director or try
to create something that the Director has not approved. It is the Director's responsibility to evolve and establish harmony in the group of conflicting elements and
succesfully blend the actor's art with the stage-craft. His success and ultimately the
success of the play, depends on the maximum cooperation amongst the actors and
the technicians.

Next in importance is the Assistant Director. His job can prove to be every
important or may prove to be only a ‘name job '. This will much depend on how the
person employed or assigned the job, shoulders responsibilities and takes initiative and
live interest in the production. The Asstt. Director has to help the Director in preparing and producing the play from A to Z. He has to help in preparing the production
script (Director’s script) and make additions and mark final corrections it it, as and

when the play moves ahead from the different stages of development. In the Director’s
absence he has to conduct rehearsals or hammer and polish weak scenes and units.
Stage-Manager is the person who is directly responsible to the Director and
holds complete authorities over all the stage technicians and backstage workers. He
controls the various departments of the backstage and to him are answerable all backstage technicians. He supervises and checks the properites. sets, costumes, lights, sound
and every smallest details of the backstage with appropriate persons in charge. Efficient

Stage Manager is he, who from the first day of the rehearsals, sits with the Director,
helps him. takes notes, studies the compositions and moves of the play and carries out
successfully all the technical work of the stage in accordance with the Director's
interpretation and desire.

The most misunderstood and misused person in the Theatre is the Prompter,
or the Script Holder. He is wrongly attributed to the job of 'prompting' the actor

who forgets his lines at the time of the performance. This situation is intolerable and
such wrong notions have no place in production. The real function of the prompter or
the script holder is to help in the earlier stages of rehearsals, when the actors are
memorising their parts. The prompter knows the whole play-every entry, every unit and
every sound and music cue, light cue and every off-stage, and on-Stage business. He
is like a Aide-de—camp to the stage manager.

The art and the technical Directors work in close colloboration with the
Director. The art Director designs and supervises the designing, dressing up of the scenes
and decor and all other visual aspects of the production. He has to consider not only the
dressing and decor of the sets but lighting, consturnes and make up as well. He studies
the play
work in
prepares
frequent

and keeps in mind the Director’s interpretation. He has to do some research
determining the Period and finalising the style of production. He first of all
the floor plan to scale, then elevation plans and perspective designs. He makes
use of colour to establish mood and atmosphere.

45

