TH E

N ATYA

SA N G H
B O M BAY

THE NATYA SANGH, BOMBAY is a federating body of theatre institutions

in this city and is affiliated to the Nationai Centre of the International Theatre
Institute, UNESCO.
Devoted entirely to the promotion and encouragement of the Theatre Arts,
the Sangh has made satisfactory progress in strengthening the Theatre movement In
the city. In addition to the Natya Academy it has now started the Theatre \Norkshop
which is well equipped with modern theatre requirements. The Sangh runs the Natya
Academy with a view to establishing better standards of productions. A scheme to
promote a professional theatre company is under way. An Indian adaptation of (Jarson
Kanin's “Born Yesterday" will be its first production under Natya Sangh auspices.
Over 47 organizations are affiliated to the Natya Sangh, Bombay. Apart from
the several benefits they receive by way of technical aid, advice and free use of good
theatre Library. the Sangh offers its members modern theatre equipment and plays at
a very nominal charge. The Theatre Workshop is also made available to members who
are guided by technical experts for practical work.

Natya Sangh, Bombay will be presenting at the Drama Festival Garson Kanin’s"
—BORN YESTERDAY ”

1UHU

A RT

TH E AT R E
80 M BA Y

Founded, collectively, in I952 by a few persons living in and around luhu,
this amateur organisation has had the opportunity of bringing to the stage its pro—

ductions not only before the audiences of Bombay
Nagpur, Surat, Poona, Delhi and now Baroda.

but also of Nasik, Ahernedabad,

The sole aim of this collective has been to produce good, healthy plays thus
creating an audience for the theatre—the theatre which should pulsate with universal
emotions, with good literature and better values of life. In this, the collective
has
met with a fair amount of success.
In the course of its career, the organisation has had the good fortune
of
learning the art of dramaturgy from persons like Balraj Sahni, Guia
bdas Broker,
Herbert Marshall, and Baij Sharma.

The organisation has also, from time to time, held talks and lectur
es of
prominent people in the field of Drama, Poetry, Films, Dance and Mu
sic.
Juhu - Art - Theatre will be presenting a Hindi-Play- SHOROSHI,
at the
Drama — Festival.

66

