Ghashiram Kotwal
This quintessentially Indian production
fuses ancient traditions and modern
techniques in a compelling blend of opera,
verse, movement and prose. The play
incorporates elements from all previous
conventions, drawing upon the classical
Sanskrit tradition to provide a Sutradhar or
Narrator while absorbing songs, dances and
mime from various types of folk theatre. The
expressive quality of folk drama makes this
Marathi play universal; with its elaborate
facial expressions, mime, song, dance and
symbolic use of stage techniques,

in a spartan style reminiscent of modern
western theatre, the stark tableau contains
just one bare arch. Beyond this solitary prop,
the scene of 18th century decadence is
evoked only through the motions of
individual actors and the endless grouping
and regrouping of a singing and dancing
chorus, a human wall. The human wall,
symbolic of the mechanism of secrecy,
selectively shields and reveals the vision of
decadence and intrigue enacted before us.
This chorus sometimes acts as a barrier and
sometimes opens up like a door to provide
glimpses of the action within.

S 0 U 1'Ce
The unique use of technique accentuates
the impact of this production. At one point
the human barrier chants the names of
revered saints and gods while inside an
innocent man is tortured. An atmosphere of
tension is achieved through the insistent
drumming and steady chanting of holy
mantras which continues throughout the
p lay.

Ghashiram Kotwal is a blend of historical
fact and dramatic fiction, set in the last years
of the 18th Century. Pune; the Capital of
the Maratha Empire, then on its last legs,
was dominated by the Brahmins, a small
community of intellectuals and priests. Nana
Phadnavis, the Chancellor, a towering
Machiavellian figure, ran the empire; while
the Peshwa, the hereditary Prime Minister
was just a figure-head. intrigue, deceit,
moral decadence and lust eroded the very
foundations of the empire which, within a
few years from the setting of the story,
passed into vassalage under the British. This
is the story of some episodes of that
tumultuous. lusty, controversial era, the
principals being Nana Phadnavis, —
Chancellor to the Peshwa and Ghashiram
the Kotwal — Chief of Police — Nana's
creation.

