Vijay Tendulkar
Playwright

Plot
Ghashiram Kotwal is a scathing depiction
of the machinations of power; it is a tale of
the corrupt beings that greed produces, and
of the perversions of religion and love that
power lust induces. Ghashiram, a penniiess
Brahrnin from North india, voyages to the
city of Pune in search of his fortune.
Hungry, he tries to attend a feast for
Brahrnins but is harshly refused entrance.
Later he is accused of stealing and thrown
into prison. Eventually an embittered
Ghashiram is released; humiliated and
abused, he shouts “you've made me an
animal; I'll be a devil inside... 1'“ make pigs
of all of you. ill make this Pune a kingdom
of pigs.’ '

When his opportunity for vengeance
arises, Ghashiram seizes it, using his lovely
young daughter. Ghashiram sacrifices
Lalitagauri to the lecherous old Nana
Phadnavis, Chancellor of Peshwa, in return
for the prestigious Kotwali, office of Chief of
Police. Now Ghashirarn as the Kotwal
unleashes a reign of terror, full of ruthless
and arbitrary injustice. With the support of
Nana behind him Ghashiram fills the prisons

while all of Pune trernbles.
Later the lustful old Nana, tired of Gauri.
marries again for the seventh time.
Ghashiram seeks his dishonoured daughter

only to find that she has died unwed in
childbirth. Furious, he confronts Nana but is
cowed by the Chancellor's authoritative
manner and quietly agrees to preserve
silence.
Eventually the bloodthirsty Ghashiram
irnprisons Brahrnins for a petty crime in an
overcrowded cell where they die of
suffocation. Finally an enraged mob
demands Ghashiram's death, and Nana
willingly agrees to dispose of the monster he
created. Life continues, full of decadence,
because Nana utilized Ghashiram to keep
his own reputation unsullied.
This controversial play deals with a
universal theme, for power's corrupting
influence transcends national boundaries.
The ironic juxtaposition of religion and
decadence is a sharp commentary on
human perversion of the holy, for the
seduction of Gauri takes place before the
sacred image of Lord Ganesh, the
elephant-headed God. Even sexuality
becomes a tool in the power—game, as when
Ghashiram sacrifices his daughter to gain
the office of Kotwal. The final irony is the
ultimate illusion that corruption ends when
Ghashiram is stoned to death, for Ghashiram
himself is only a plaything in the hands of
the wily Nana.

Author's Note
This is not a historical play. it is a story. in
prose, verse, music and dance set in a
historical era. Ghashirams are creations of
sociopolitical forces, which know no barriers
of time and place. Although based on a
historical legend, 1 have no intention of
commenting on the morals, or lack of them,
of the Peshwa, Nana Phadnavis or
Ghashiram. The moral of this story, if there is
any, may be looked for elsewhere.

Author of the controversial play
“Ghashiram Kotwal", the brilliant playwright
Vijay Tendulkar has written many other
plays including “Shanatata Court Chaloo
Aahe" (Silence! The Court is in session)

which received the Karnaladevi
Chattopadhyaya Award 1969. He was also
awarded a Nehru Fellowship in 1970 and
the Padrnabhushan award in 1984. A
member of many prestigious theatrical
societies, Tendulkar's new screenplays
include “Kamala” and “Ardhasatya” Born
in 1928, he, his wife Meena. and his children
reside in Bombay.

