Scenewise Synopsis Act I
1. Traditional Invocation to the God
‘Ganesha’. He has the head of an elephant
on a human body, in Hindu Mythology.

6. Enter Nana Phadnavis, the Chancellor.

While dancing with Gulabi, he sprains his
ankle. Ghashiram offers him aid, and

11. The Sutradhar comes upon
Ghashiram, and advises him to leave Poona
or else fall in line.

declines any reward.
2. The Sutradhar, or Narrator, introduces
the Brahrnins of Poona, the intellectuals, the

privileged class, supposedly pious and
virtuous.

3. The Sutradhar confronts a Brahrnin
sneaking off to Bavankhani, the red light
area.

7. Ghashiram introduces himself to Nana.
Gulabi, piqued at Nana’s interest, explains
that she had hired him as an odd job man.
Nana rewards him with a costly necklace.
Dawn is breaking, the city awakens, the
nobles wend their way home.

8. Gulabi claims the necklace. When

12. The embittered Ghashiram swears
vengeance on the Poona Brahrnins for his
humiliation.

13. The Festival of Ganesh at Nana's
palace. The gentry have assembled. The
music changes from devotional to erotic. as
Nana feasts his eyes on the assembled
ladies, a young girl in particular.

Ghashiram resists, she has him beaten up
4. The Sutradhar questions the nobles
who are also heading for the Bavankhani.
under the pretense of going to a religious
discourse.
The entire elite frequents this famous red
light area.

5. Gulabi entertains the gathered nobility
with romantic and erotic song and dance.
Ghashirarn is her servant.
A typical Brahrnin housewife anxiously
awaits her lord and master, the hour being
past midnight.

and thrown out.

14. The girl escapes Nana's clutches and

9. Ghashiram turns up at a feast in honour
of Brahrnins. Though a Brahrnin, he is
refused entry. At the same time, the greedy
Brahrnins vie with each other to usher in a
British Officer.

10. A Brahrnin discovers his pocket has
been picked. The Police and the Brahrnins,
suspecting Ghashirarn, promptly beat him up
and throw him in a cell.

instead she runs into Ghashtram, who has
found service in Nana’s palace.

15. Ghashiram promises to bring Nana's
prey back to him.

16. The girl, Lalitagauri, is delivered to
Nana, and Nana begins his seduction.

