17. Ghashiram is exultant, knowing he has
Nana hooked, for the girl is his own
daughter. His triumph is mixed with
self— loathing.

Nana is completely besotted, neglects
everything in his dalliance with Gauri.

18. Ghashiram now blackrnails Nana,
threatening to take Gauri away. Nana insists
on having her for some more time.
Ghashiram suggests the only way out —
appointment as Kotwal, Chief of Police.

19. Nana agrees, reluctantly, and issues
edicts appointing Ghashiram Chief of Police,
and Ghashiram in turn keeps his bargain.

Act I l
1. Opens with the invocation to Lord
Ganesh, but the invocation is now desultory,
reflecting the mood of the populace.
While Nana dailies with Gauri, Ghashiram
issues frightening edicts. “Permits are now
required for even crernating corpses. Eating
food cooked by a person of Lower caste,
Butchering goats, Abortion, Pimping,
Adultery, Theft, Polyandry, Suicide, all are
prohibited - the list is endless". The prisons
overflow,'the populace is terror stricken
Ghashiram's writ runs large, while Nana is
engrossed with Gauri.

2. The Kotwal stops the Narrator, who is
out late at night. His explanation that he is
off to summon a midwife since his wife is in
labour, is deemed insufficient cause for
breaking the Kotwal's curfew.

3. Sounds of a Brahmin, in bed with his
own wife infuriate the Kotwal, who
browbeats the neighbours into testifying she
is not his wife, and irnprisons the unfortunate
couple.
Ghashiram's tyranny grows, but he has
Nana's backing.

4. Holi, the festival of colour. Nana and
Gauri, infatuated, enjoy Gulabi’s dance.
while Kotwal ordains that barring one’s
spouse, colour is not to be splashed on
anyone. This dampens the traditional joy of
this Festival.

5. A distraught woman interrupts Nana in
his dalliance, with a complaint against the
Kotwal's tyranny. Nana has her driven out.
and bars anyone from approaching him.
Time passes, and the Feast for the
Brahmins comes again.

6. Again, a Brahrnin whose pocket is
picked, accuses another of theft. Ghashiram
has him arrested, and when he professes
innocence, forces him to undergo the
dreaded "Trial by Fire".
The rituals of the ordeal are initiated - the
man's fingernails are extracted. his hands
are washed with lime and soap. The hands
are bathed in oil, and a white hot ball of iron
is placed on them — the superstition being
that if the man is innocent, the skin will not
blister.

