7. The tormented man confesses his

‘crime', and the jubilant Kotwal orders his
hands chopped off. The Brahmin lays a
curse on Ghashiram that “he will become
childless, and suffer a horrible death."

The whole P une trernbles, people jailed
without reason, executed without reason,
Ghashiram's tyranny grows, while Nana is
unconcerned.

11. Ghashiram discovers his daughter
Gauri buried, dead in childbirth. At her
grave Nana counsels forbearance pointing
out to Ghashirarn that life is but an illusion,
humans are puppets in the hands of God,
but while on the Earth, the dignity of both
the office of Kotwal, and of his patrons, must
at all costs be maintained.

12. Ghashirarn, heartbroken, turns to go,

8. The Sutradhar encounters a Brahrnin,
who reveals he is on his way to solernnise
Nana's seventh wedding.
The whole of Pune goes to Nana's
wedding.

9. Nana's palace; the wedding ceremony
takes place with great fanfare. The bride is
a young girl, bought with a handsome
dowry.

but Nana forces him to bow before him,
reiterating as it were, his supremacy.
Ghashirarn does so.

13.Nana orders Gauri's corpse flung into
the river, and goes, back to his new bride.
Gauri has gone, Nana remains, the old
order continues.

16. A Baron, an enemy of Ghashiram,
hears the cries of the prisoners and orders
the jail doors broken down. 22 Brahrnins are
dead from suffocation and several serious.
The populace is furious that 22 people be
killed just for stealing fruits. A mob turns
violent, but Nana is indifferent.

17. The mob rushes to Nana's palace, and
demands Ghashiram's death warrant. Nana
seizing the opportunity issues orders for
Ghashiram's execution; and suggests
desecrating him too.

18. The enraged mob converges on
Ghashiram, shaves his head, parades him
back to front on a camel, drag him in the
streets chained to an elephant's legs and
finally stone him to death.

14. The demented Kotwal turns sadist. For

an imagined slight, he murders an
10. Ghashiram accosts Nana while he is
with his terrified bride, and demands to

unfortunate innocent.

know his daughter's whereabouts. Nana
informs him, under duress, that she is with a
midwife.

15. The Sutradhar meets some poor
Brahmins from South India, who have just
arrived in Pune. He cautions them against
resting in the Kotwal's gardens, but hungry,
they pluck some fruit, and are flung into
dungeon by Ghashiram.
The jails are overcrowded, the prisoners
suffocated, some die.

19. Nana, Statesman and Politician.

declares 3 days of Festivities, to celebrate
the passing of the terror which had gripped
Pune. All traces of Ghashiram are ordered
obliterated.

20. The populace is overjoyed, and the
city resumes its old ways, decadent and
debaucherous as before.

