drowning). In France, Lovey took a lover who treated her poorly and robbed her of her riches. Because of this and her
tremendous generosity, she has fallen into great debt and is in danger of losing her famous cherry orchard.While we wait, we
learn a bit about the servants and Lopakin, a serf—tumed-merchant after the emancipation. He tells the story of his harsh
childhood and his rise to the life of a businessman, while the servants prepare.We learn that Firs stays at the estate voluntarily
even though she could be free, and that Dunyasha has been proposed to byYepihodov.
Lovey and her daughters' long awaited return brings up happy and sad memories, and we are introduced to all of the other characters
and their stories.We learn of the love triangle between the two servants, and the incomplete love affairs betweenVarya (Lovey's other
daughter) and Lopakin, and Anya and the “eternal student,”Trofimov.We see the governess Charlotta in her isolation, and the debt that
Pischik has fallen into.We also see the effects of the liberation of the serfs on former serfs, Lopakin and Firs. But everything revolves
around the pending date ofAugust 22, when, if Lovey cannot pay off her debts, the cherry orchard estate will be sold.While everyone is
aware of this, no one seems to be doing anything about it.Aside from Lopakin, who insists that Lovey cut down the orchard and build
villas in their stead to be rented out to pay off the debts, but she does not take his advice.
While Lovey's money is dwindling, she continues to frivolously give it away to passersby, peasants, and even in loans to Pischik. She also
begins receiving daily telegrams from her abusive, but ailing lover in France, imploring that he return to her. Firs begins to fall ill, and all
of the romances continue, save Lopakin andVarya's,toVarya's disappointment. ByAugust 22, there has still been nothing done, and the
orchard is sold. However, Lovey and her friends and family are not there, because she has thrown a ball.While the guests dance and
Charlotta performs magic tricks,Trofimov urges Lovey to stay away from her lover and Lovey does not take it we I I .When Lopaki n and
Gaev return to the auction, Gaev is not happy but Lopakin is overjoyed; he has bought the orchard! He feels fulﬁlled to have risen to a
place where he can purchase the orchard his parents were once slaves in, his happiness strongly contrasting the dropped mood of the
rest of the guests.
The play ends on a slightly optimistic note; as we see everyone moving out of the house and saying their goodbyes. Lovey is going back
to France, along with the delightedYasha, to Dunyasha's dismay.We learn that Firs is in the hospital, and Varya is still livid over the way
things turned out, so things end poorly between her and Lopaki n. Gaev has caved and accepted a job at the ban k,Yepi hodov is to work
for Lopakin,Troﬁmov is to go back to university, and Charlotta doesn't know where to go.The play closes with all of the characters
offstage having said goodbye and left, and Firs waddl i ng onto the stage in slippers and her uniform, having been forgotten by the rest of
them.To the sound of the orchard being chopped down, she lies down to rest.

About the play

Cherry Orchard opens at Lovey's estate, where servants and friends are anxiously awaiting the arrival of Lovey and her daughter
Anya, who have been living in Paris for ﬁve years to escape the tragic deaths of both Lovey's husband (to illness) and son (to

