have any relevance to our times .7
Yet, I see a strange similarity of dramatic structuring with M irchchakatikam (Mitti ki Gaadi by Sh ud rak) . Both plays talk about
upheaval and transition in history. In a way my father was my 'cherry orchard'.Anjalika was our 'cherry orchard'.The earth is
our 'cherry orchard', which we know is heading towards unavoidable changes environmentally, politically, sociologically and

psychologically. And the consequences of these imminent changes seem very grim.
The play portrays a period of transition in Russia with the end of feudalism and the ﬂow of communist ideology in pursuit of
preserving socialism.

Since then communism has slowly started to erode and consumerism has taken over as an ever-

expanding ideology which continues till today. At present, like the characters in the play, all of us are witnessing,
experiencing and becoming a part of this overwhelming ideological transition. Every character in the play is like a lost soul
in a forest. Each is beautiful and adorable but lost at best. And we, in this 2 ISI century - are we also as lost as Chekov's
characters or do we still have a chance to create a better future?

In the play, is there any hope for the future of these characters? Was Yephikhodiv really an unlucky fellow? Was Tr'oﬁmov a
silly, dry and contradictory character? Aren'tYeph i khodov and Madam Ranyeskia similar in nature when it comes to intense
love, which is also the reason for their misery? I would like to think that Madame Ranyeskia became a stronger person
when she accepted the call from her soul to be with her lover. I would love to think that she accepted the change, that
maybe both she and her lover became transformed human beings and took up some job to earn their livelihood. Maybe
they both came and met Anya who would be busy with the pre-revolutionary movement in Russia. Perhaps in the future
Peteiya is arrested or assassinated.And Lopakhin after 6 months might manage his business in a way that he ﬁnds time for
marriage and waits forVanya. Even Gayev should ultimately work at a job and learn the hard way.
In 2000, when I did Three Sisters I realised that Chekhov is trying to relate to the popular audience. is it the same in the case
of The Cherry Orchard? l n what way is this play a comedy - in the Aristotelian sense; or is itAnanddharmi in the Asiatic way?

The students and l are trying to ﬁnd out.

Director’s Note

I always dreaded this play. How could a play which deals with the pre-revolution period of Russia

