ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
Born on Nov. 21st 1970, at Chandbali in
Drissa, Chittranjan Tripathi Graduated
in Political Science from ravenshaw

College (Orissa). He did his master in
sociology from Hyderabad central
University in 1992 and in the year 1996
Graduated in acting from National

School of Drama.
After that he directed Holi, Yahudi Ki
Beti, Bodhayan's Bhagwatajiukiyam
a nd self written play G unnoba i.

Chittranj an Tripathi

Besides being practicing Actor/
Director, he has also conducted several
theatre workshops. Shri Tripathi has
composed music for more than 15 plays,
title music for the Tele-serials like
Anugunj and Pahal. As an actor he has
worked in more than 30 plays and also
acted in several Tele-films and serials.

ABOUT THE PLAYWRIG HT
Born on July 7th 1955, atAgra (U.P.) Shri
Ajay Shukla is a post graduate in history
from Lucknow University. In the year
1980, he joined Indian Railway Traffic
service and at present he is Chief

३ (Hindi) .
' टू ५ ८.
I L NQZSCDRepeItory Co., New Delhi

Commercial Manager (FS) of Western
Railway Mumbai. Shri Shukla is deeply
associated in the service of Hindi
literature.
One of his play Dusra Adhayaya was
directed by Ram Gopal Bajaj in Jan
1998. This play was also broadcast from
All India Radio in July 1998.
To his credit he has-published
collection of poems in Hindi as well as in
English. In Hindi Prashnachinh (1991),
Pratibodh (1997) and in English Silent

Rain Drops (1992), Tajmahal Ka Tender
and Philosphy of Gita are the two books,
which are under publication.
In the year, 1993 he was awarded with
Delhi Sahitya Kala Parishad‘s
playwright Award for Dusra—Adhyaya
and in 1997 he was awarded with
lVlohan Rakesh Samrnan for his play
Tajmahal ka Tender.

ABOUT THE GROUP
National School of Drama Repertory
was formed in 1964-65 on an
experimental basis by Shri E. Alkazi. In
the beginning, it consisted of only four
actors. It later expanded into a larger
group of actors, musicians and
technicians, mainly drawn from
graduates of the National School of
Drama, Delhi. In 1964 late 0m Shivpuri
led the company and later in 1977, Late
Manohar Singh became the first regular

Chief of Repertory.
Over the years the Repertory has
produced a variety of plays ranging
from stylised musicals to realistic
contemporary works of Indian drama to
translations and adaptations of foreign
language plays. Eminent directors of
national and international repute from
within the country and abroad have
worked with the company.
Quite a few ofthe actors ofthe company
have emerged, over the years, as
celebrities in theatre, cinema and
television in lndia. The Repertory tours
extensively all over lndia and has made
several successful trips of Germany,
Poland, Britain, Nepal and Mauritius.

