NOTE FROM THE DIRECTOR (NSD)
Such is the irony of our times that the language is losing its meaning.
Mostly what is said is not meant in earnest and hence what is said in
earnest is also suspect. When I say that I strongly believe that the theatre
in this country can become a vibrant movement only if the youth - the
students - decided to make it so, I am afraid of mouthing a cliche'. But

as a potent medium of communicating ideas, theatre relies heavily on
words - and it is only the theatre which will restore meaning and
resonance to the ’word’ and do away with the clinches. It is with this
belief that I am going ahead with my assertion.
National School of Drama along with being a training institution has

always felt itself responsible for encouraging the theatre movement in
the entire country. Hence apart from our own training course we have

tried to reach out to the theatre community of the entire country
through our training workshops, performance tours of the Repertory
and the Theatre in Education Company, the newsletter and now some
other publications. We also believe that schools, colleges and universi—
ties are rich repositories to talent, enthusiasm, and dedication and

reaching out to them is going to pay long term dividends in terms of
creating a large body of enlightened theatre spectators if not theatre
workers.
It is a well known fact that in the entire history of modern theatre,
colleges and universities have played an important role in initiating
theatre activity, creating theatre workers and providing new directions
to the existing theatre activity. Particulary in Delhi there was a phase
when the most significant work was happening in universities 8:
colleges. For some reason over the years that tradition slowly died
down. Once again, in the last 4 or 5 years we see some resurgence of
interest in theatre and we feel that supporting and encouraging that
interest will go a long Way in reviving the theartre as a strong medium
of communication. This is particularly required to counter the negaive
impact of the explosion of market driven media. There is a severe need
today to face reality, to remain rooted, * to retain our sanity, which
probably only theatre can do effectively.
In this context we are naturally very happy to collaborate with INU in
this 2 month long workshop. We have great hopes from the student
community in JNU, who have a tradition of a kind of education that
allows for liberal ठे: open thought, that they will be able to consolidate
this experience to start a more regular theatre activity. Judging from the

enthusiasm and involvement that the participants of this workshop
have shown we are quite sure that something opportunity to start a
regular theatre department. We sincerely hope that participants have

found the workshop useful.

