ABOUT THE WORKSHOP
National School of Drama, Extension Programme organises Intensive
theatre Workshops in different parts of India. Such workshops are organised
either in collaboration with the State Government or in collaboration with
the theatre groups. Sometime even independently such workshops are
organised.
Outline of’ such workshops are of different kinds like Intensive theatre
workshop, which deals with all the aspects of theatre, for example, Acting
Voice & Speech, Body Movement, Make-up, Costume, Scenic Designing,
theatre Music , Poster Designing, Light Designing, Production Process etc.
Some workshops are organised specially on specific subjects like Special
workshop on acting or direction or designing etc.
Intensive theatre workshop is known to be a full time workshop.Usually
such workshops work for 10-12 hours daily for the period of 40—45 days and
towards the end of the workshop a play is staged. Though training is the
central theme of such workshops, production is just a formal part of the
training .

The Intensive Theatre Workshop organised in Jawahar Lal Nehru University is also another link in Intensive theatre training camp. This Workshop
began on 23rd Aug'95 and will get over on 3 1 st Oct.‘ 95.

Out of the 55 students. who look the audition test, only 30 students were
selected. Out ofthose 30 selected students only 29joined the workshop. But
in view of the Physical & Mental work and because of the busy academic
schedule only 23 students could continue on the workshop. During the
workshop. experts in different subjects came and gave training to the
students.
An attempt has been made by the students of the Workshop in staging a
Play. keeping in mind the training and theatre style. All aspects of the
theatre they have been exposed to during the workshop. are incorporated

in the Production.

All the 23 students. who irrespective of their acdemic pressure. managed
to devote their time sincerely to the workshop. are infact, praiseworthy.
On behalf of all the trainees of the workshop. I Suresh Sharma, Director of
this Intensive theatre workshop thank Ms Kirti Jain - Director, National
School of Drama and Dr Anuradha Kapoor. member NSD Extension
Programme. with whose involvement such workshop could be organised
in JNU and which gave the golden opportunity to these students.

In the end. I hope that the initiative that has been taken will add new chapter
to the cultural history of JNU and will strengthen the cultural belt of JNU.
Su res/1 Sh a rm (1
Camp Director

