ABOUT THE PLAY WRIGHT
Bertold Brecht (1898-1956)

Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht, one of the most influential dramatic
figures of this Century, was born on Feburary 10, 1898 in Augsburg,
southern Germany. Being an able salesman's son, Brecht's childhood

and early education were typically bourgeois.
Brecht's first poems were published in 1914, when he was still in his
secondary school and fast becoming interested in the theater, he decided
to study medicine and science at the Ludwig Maximilian University at
Munich after his graduation. He served as a medical orderly at the
Ausburg Military hospital.
Brecht wrote his first play Baal during the Bavarian revolutionary
turmoil in 1918. He became associated with communism as a member

of Augsburg Soldiers Council in 1919. Brecht's first short story published
in 1921. In 1922, he received the Kleist Prize for ’Drums in the Night’.
After the staging Edward II in the spring of 1924, Brecht moved to Berlin

in autumn to become a dramatist in Max Reinhard t's Deutsches Theatre
and was drawn into city's cultural life. Brecht's collaboration with the
composer Kurt weill resulted in several musical plays and fame and
financial success followed with the production of the Three Penny
Opera in 1928.
In order to analyse the political and economic cirsis wroght in by the
World War I, Brecht made an intensive and systematic study of the
Marxist philosophy and economics which influenced his later writings,
as he leaned more towards communism. The rise of Nazi power lent a
blow to the production of Brecht's play. He had to flee the country in
1933. His only novel, The Three Penny Novel, was published in

Netherlands in 1934. Nazi regime took away his citizenship in 1935.
While he was still in exile Brecht immigrated to US in 1941 but the
American audiences were reluctant to accept his disturbing plays. His
best reception was in University Theatre.
In 1948 he finally settled in Germany and plunged into stage activities
establishing a company The Berliner Ensemble for the production of his
own plays. The Ensemble developed into one of the World's best theatre
companies and became the embodiment of Brecht's theatrical philosophy.
He died of a coronary thrombosis on August 14, 1956, in East Berlin.

Surcslz Sharma

