Harishchandra. also known as amanmou
(b. Sept. 9. l 850. Vlranasi. lndia—d. Jan. 6.
l885. Varanasi). poet. dramatist. critic. and
journalist commonly referred to as the “father
of modem i;'~{indi." His great contributions in
founding a new tradition of Hindi prose was
recognized even in his short lifetime. and he
was admirineg called Bharatendu (Moon of
India). an honoriﬁc that has taken precedence
over his own name.
The 11118.1121-1 family that Harishchandra
was born into traced its descent from Amichand. the prosperous banker whose intrigues
agaimt his master. the Nawab of Bengal. and
his own deception by Robert Clive is a celebrated incident of modem Indian history. His

father. GOpalachandra (pen . name. Giridharadaja). was a talented poet who cornposed a considerable amount of traditional
Braj Bhasa (a dialect of Hindi) verse of technical virtuosity but with little poetic feeling.

Harishchandra began his own literary career
at the age of 17. when he established 0861)
the first literary magazine of Hindi. the Kev!vaehana-sudha. followed in 1872 by Harislrक्या।। Magazine. later called Harishchand-

m Chandrlka. A circle of dis ‘

' hed poets

and litterateurs whom he patronized most lib-

erally gathered around him. and their work
resulted in a radical transformation of Hindi
language and literature. published for the ﬁrst
time in the pages of his magazine.
Harishchandra's inﬂuence was deep and farreaching: his works mark the end of the Riti
period of Hindi literature (c. 1650-1850) and
usher in what is called the Bharatendu epoch.
which in turn leads into the modern period. '
His advocacy of the development of the Hindi
language and opposition to the undue importanoe given to Urdu in ofﬁcial circles had important political results. leading ultimately to

Harishcbandra‘s poetry. in contrast to the

rather dry poetry of the thi period. was simple. deeply felt. and ﬁlled with devotional ar-

dour and emotional lyricism. His numerous
plays. written partly ‘in modern Hindi and
partly in Braj Bhasa verse. are among the ﬁrst
in the language and concern themselves with a
' wide range of themes. They include satirical
farces and several dramas in which the
t
expresses his intense grief at the stulti ying
poverty of India and the decline of its civilization under centuries of foreign domination.
Harishchandra's passionate participation in

social and educational activities did not. however, prevent him from taking delight in the
world around him. He was known also as an

accomplished actor. a keen and witty polemi-

the establishment of modem Hindi as the

cist. and. within the circle of his own caste and
religious. community. an outrageous practical

state language of India.

)0 ’er.

