. "एँ

६ \t

f‘ '. Q

,1! ८७

Cart?
THE PLAY

. हैं--------"---.._..._..

The play is based on the theme of the gradual decay of the traditional moral values.

Nilaratan, an old man, represents the high values of the past. Sukumar, his son, and Saswati,
his daughter-in-law, symbolise the doubtful reconciliation of the present. Bulbul, Sukumar’s

son, and Leena, Bulbul’s girl-friend, forecast the decadence of the future. The play portrays the
unsolved conﬂict among these three different situations.

Nilaratan, after a long gap, comes from his village to tlre town where Sukumar resides.
Sukumar is a Class I Government ofﬁcer. Saswati serves there in a ﬁrm. Bulbul studies in the
local College. Nilaratan, out of all the earnings of his life-time, has made a golden idol of

Lord Krishna which he wants to instal in a beautiful temple. For this purpose, he has come to
Sukumar to ask for the required money.

The play starts in the controversial Sunday afternoon

at 2 p. m. when Nilaratan is

sitting alone in the posh-building of Sukumar waiting for everybody to

join him in lunch,

Sukumar is alone in his ofﬁce having a dialogue with his own second-self who persuades him
to get money for Nilaratan by misusing his power and position. Saswati is sitting alone under
a tree near a bus—stop conversing with her own second-self about

Aditya with whom she was

in love before her marriage and from whom she wants to get some money for Nilaratan, and
Bulbul is whiling away his time with Leena in a crematorium.

Nilaratan gradually comes to know that Sukumar has accumulated all his money

unlawfully and Bulbul has become wayward. He ﬁnds that the beliefs of his life-time are
shattered. He feels helpless and suffocated, and the next day wants to leave for his village.

Sukumar comes to know that Saswati is having links with another man which she wants to
conceal. Finally to everybody’s surprise, it is found that the golden idol of Lord Krishna has

been stolen. Bulbul says he has stolen it as he needs money to spend on an outing with Leena.

Nilaratan, with his heart broken, leaves for his village. Bulbul goes off with Leena as he
ﬁnds his own house suffocating. Sukumar and Saswati are left forcibly trying to reconcile to
the situation.

