Natya Santa an
KT NEWSSERV'CE. , . f. .; .,
JAMMU,

sep

29: 1.

W. . . .
Natya

Samagama festival of contemporary

Theatre,
Punjab
University,
Chandigarh, Deepak Kumar, Lalit
Gupta and Amit Dixit. There was a

theatre practices and diverse cultur-

special segment of meet the director

‘ al expressions of India concluded in
Abhinav Theatre here last night on
a creative note with the presentation
of Babuji a Hindi play in Nautanki
style directed by Zafar Sanjari and

providing an insight into the works

presented by Parivartan ‘Samooh,
Gwalior.
Suman Kumar, Deputy Secretary
(Drama) of Sangeet Natak Akademi,
New Delhi said the festival has had

many achievements to its credit.
_

Plays such as Sartaqs in Purgi
dialect directed by Kachoo Ahmad
Khan, of Kargil, and Abhigyan

Shakuntalam in _ Nagpuri dialect
directed by Sanjay Kumar Lal of
Ranchi were presented on the

national platform for the ﬁrst time.
Folk and traditional performing
arts of Jammu and Kashmir were
innate part of the festival. The festival ’was witnessed by a number of
the local and national experts
including the likes of Mushtaq Ali
Khan, Bhavani Bashir Yasir, from
Kashmir
and Navdeep Kaur,
Chairman, Department of Indian

cf the participating directors.
The festival director Balwant
'I‘hakur told the reporters here that

the festival showcased over 51
events presenting over 600 artists a rare treat to the rasika of Jammu
and adjoining regions. Another one
of the major success of the festival
was response of the artists from
Kashmir who, in spite of the prevailing conditions in the region, came all
the way from valley to participate
and contribute to the creative efforts
to bring people together and maintain faith in humanity.
The thatheras of Jandiala Guru
near Amritsar were a major attraction of the festival. The initial apprehensions soon vanished after the
response of the Jammu audience in
the festival. The connoisseurs of the
art kept patiently waiting each
evening for the second proscenium
performance of the day and applauded the performances. Theatre performances of different genres were
presented in the festival showcasing

whither Indian theatre and providing an opportunity to begin a discourse on present day theatre vis-avis society. The festival which had
begun on September 24 with the performance of Alag Mulak ka
Bashinda directed by Rajkamal
Nayak of Raipur, was organized by
Sangieet Natak Akademi, New Delhi
with the collaboration ofJammu and
Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture
and Languages. Arvinder Singh
Amn, Additional Secretary of the
J&K Academy told the reporters
that the Academy provided infrastructural support apart from coordinating the Bhand Pather groups of
Kashmir, Chakri and Dambali
groups.
'
'

Thakur said that festival also provided an impetus to the upcoming
theatre groups and artists of
Jammu, encouraging them to update
themselves with national theatre
scene”. Many of these theatre artists,

including Abhishek 'Bharti - a Yuva
Awardee of the Akademi, participat—
ed in the festival as coordinator. The
festival was available on live webcast on the website of the Sange t
Natak Akademi, New Delhi.
'
Am .

