TX ,IIISBIISSING DRAMA
हूँ'

rt is an inevitable part of refined
हैं हैं
understand of philosophy of life
'
and, therefore, theatre is a serious
and responsible creative act, said Ratan
’l‘hiyam, chairperson, National School of
Drama (NSD) Society. "We live in a chang~

ing world where technology has intervened
in all spheres of our lives," 'I‘hiyam said

addressing the inaugural function of the
9th Asia-Pacific Bureau Meet being hosted by the NSD.
…
'
Students, teachers and directors from
14participating schools across 10 countries,
along with the NSD students, faculty, staff
and artists were present at the openingsession of a week-long exchange programme,
held at NSD's Abhimanch Auditorium.
The event was kicked off with a serene
performance by legendaryﬂautist Pt Rajendra Prasanna in raag Bhairavi. Following
this, the directors of the guest schools, including ’I‘hiyam, Prof WamanKendre, director
of NSD, lit the inaugural lamp.
In his address, Prof Kendre said, "In
India we have a guru-shishya parampara
~ teacher-disciple relationship ~ whereby
we not only teach the skills of an art to stu- '
dents but also handover the values of life.
With our diﬁerent and varied culture, Ibelieve
Asia Paciﬁc region has a lot to give to the
world and which is why we need to come
together: "
Prof Kendre said today, the goal of the
arts isnot just teaching, but much more than
that. With the threat of war looming large
in parts of the world, he spoke of the need
to not just create artists, but also responsible global citizens whowill spread the message of peace. "It's a challenge before us, and
all the creative institutes of the world, " he

added.

.

The first year students of NSD performeda contemporary dance piece, An Unﬁt,
symbolizingan individuals strugglefor accep
tance in a programmed society.
Gong Baorong, Director of UNESCOI'I‘I had sent a message congratulating

NSD for hosting the V9th APB Theatre Festival and the 10th Directors' Conference 2016.
He mentioned, "NSD has always sharedwith
us its great achievements on student training. We believe that by participating in the
activities organized by NSD, we will learn

much about Indian culture and its contemporary theatre."

ISNS ,

