INTRODUCTION

The Second All Patna One Act Play Festival was about
to come to a most successful close as His Excellency Mr Nityanand. Kanungo, Governor of, Bihar Chief Guest for the closing
evening of the Festival, November 5th 1968 addressed the

crowded hall at Rabindra Bhawanf
participants

were eagerly

awaiting

Still the audience and
the

decisions

of

the

honourable judge, Mr. Rameshwar Singh Kashyap, “Loha
Singh” of Radio fame and renown, Principal of Sasaram
College Bihar. The moment had come. The Imperial Tobacco
Co. of India running Shield for the Best Play of the All
Patna One Act Play Festival of November 1968 was awarded

to St. Xavier’s High School Patna for its production, “The
: Aubrey D. Barnard
Other Side”. Best Actor Award for 1968 was presented to
Arif Rahman for his brilliant performance in the Y. M. C. A. Comedy “Cox and Box”.

Miss} Dhanta Jaitley was pronounced Best Actress of 1968 for her dazzling

performance

in? the" hilariously well acted Hindi Comedy “Anju Didi” presented by the Bankipore
Girls’ Higher Secondary School. The Second Best Actor award went to Mr. Akhileshwar
who acted in the Play “Sanyog” presented by Sursagar and Miss Audrey Duncan was

proclaimed the Second Best Actress of the Festival for her role in “My Fair Lady” staged
by Kurji Holy Family Hospital School of Nursing.

Mrs. Kanungo, graciously

distributed

the prizes and awards.—
The tremendous success of the Second All Patna One Play Festival spurred on both the
Act
One
Patna
All
Third
forthcoming
the
for
ahead
plan
to
participants
organizers and

Play Festival for 1969.

Subsequently, representatives of the participating institutions met

with the Executive Board on November 8th, 1968.

Throughout 1969 the Participating Insti-

tutions met almost every two months under the chairmanship of Rev. Fr. Gordon Murphy,
S. J. to plan ahead for the Third All Patna One Act Play Festival.
In June, 1969 the All Patna One Act play Festival became the Patna One Act Play
Festival Cultural Society when it was registered under Registration No.

13/69 under the

Registration Act of 1860. The Third All Patna One Act Play Festival with its 22 participant institutions gives ample evidence that the One Act Play Festival in Patna has become
a widespread inﬂuence in the development of cultural progress in our renowned Metropolis

built on ancient glories and kingdoms—Pataliputra. The following chart amply points out
how rapidly the Festival has grown :
In 1967 the Festival staged 10 plays in three days.
In 1968 there were 15 plays covering the period of four days.
In 1969 twenty tWo plays are scheduled to be presented in ﬁve days from November

22 to 26 included.
Finally, it must be mentioned that the All Patna One Act Festival has been greatly
encouraged by the support and interest shown by the audiences that have been coming to
the Festivals. Such appreciative audiences have spurred on the young artists participating
in the Festival. Also because of the spontaneous and generous response of the Festival’s
sponsors, patrons and advertisers this Festival is the grand success that it is and through
the Festival good drama has been and will Continue to be presented to the people of
Patna.

A. D. BARNARD
Executive Secretary.

