formation of the Rabindra Parishad, an organization formed to pay tribute to Rabindranath
Tagore by studying and expanding interest in his literature, art and philosophy. Soon the
activities extended to dance-dramas and seasonal music festivals. Besides presenting the
Tagore plays, a party in Calcutta known as the Little Theatre Group staged other plays
setting a standard in amateur dramatic art which was then imitated by local talent in

productions which compared favourably with the Calcutta presentations.
The building of the Rabindra Bhawan stage and auditorium was completed in
1961 ,. and today consists of an equipped modern stage 22 feet deep with an opening of
26 feet. There are make-up rooms and two extra rooms with a back-stage extension. The
auditorium has a seating capacity of 650 persons and has been built according to modern
principles of both visibility and accoustics. This, Patna’s own Little Theatre, is the “home”
of the All Patna One Act Play Festival.

The measure of the community theatre’s success is the response that it gets from
the community.

For its part in the little theatre movement, the All Patna One Act Play

Festival Society has received most gratifying response from all quarters of the community.
The measure of an art theatre’s success is the freedom and creative quality of its productions
as well as the contribution it makes to the growth of the individual artist. In this respect,
the Patna One Act Play. Festival Society has developed and improved much local talent
through the competitive interpretation . and performance, and has likewise stimulated more
than one individual artist to naturally turn to a professional ﬁeld of larger opportunity, in
directing as well as in acting. As an educational theatre, it encourages groups of students
from high school as well as college level to stage productions that range from Shakespeare

to modern comedy, thus using the dramatic impulse in education to the full. _

A scene from “Thursdays at Home” presented by
St. Joseph Convent School at the Third All Patna One
Act Play Festival. 1969

