Krishna-Katha
Months of research reveal that the lee/as of
Krishna in Brindavan have been handed down
in the form of oral tradition and written text.
Although the divinity is a comparatively newer
phenomenon, while the events and human
follies are much more ancient; it is the former

that remain engraved in common perception.

The lee/as of the ’ Butter Thief of Brindavan’ are
in the nature of divinity, as opposed to the
statesman ly qualities of Krishna in the
Mahabharat. The Krishna of the first half of the
production represents the Divinity that is
popularly associated with him. The incidents
chosen are those that relate to this divinity. The
divinity of the lee/as is dealt with in a renewed
manner. The production values of the second
half serve as a counterpoint to the first half. The
text in the first half relies on well-known, not-

commonly-known as well as unknown poets of
the Vaishnava and Pushtirnargi cult. In the first
half, there is emphasis on the ethereal RadhaKrishna relationship. Here Krishna himself puts
Radha on the supreme pedestal as his divine
consort. It is in their union that makes mystical
our perception of this ’divine couple’ of Krishna
and his consort, Radha. Their relationship has
been treated in three respective planes. Firstly,
they are transfigured into the celestial world of
Cokul. The second is, their purush and prakriti
— the man and the nature relationship; and the
last is, the idea of a merged identity that has
come to be synonymous with Radha-Krishna.
The Krishna of the Mahabharat is distinctly
different to the one before his departure to
Dwarka. An attempt has been made to unravel
that part of Krishna’s life that has been kept as
undiscovered. The ’Chakradhari Krishna’ of the
second half, however, has been treated as one
who undertook leadership qualities; but those
by virtue of which he became a part-taker in the
great war and, thus, was susceptible to divine
follies. An isolated Krishna gathers divinity with
his growth in stature as a statesman, human and
one prone to reactions of the mortals. The
second half relies on an e pecially..-_......-commissioned script to le ser-knowminciejents

३ औजा-वक-मरार-यद"'-.'"-":."".""

