who participated in the production, the Kendra
is ingratiated to Keshav Kothari and Jayamala
Aiyer for their valuable time and inputs towards
the current presentation. Choreographers
Shashidharan Nair and Papiha Desai worked

unflaggingly to see this production through.
They have drawn on the rich and varied dance
movements of the country for choreography.
This production differs from the previous
year's presentations. Although there are new
scenes added, the entire production has been
looked at afresh from ideas arising out of the

research. For although the scenes of divinity are
a much newer phenomena, the text used to
interpret these is not only new but also is that
which is lesser known in public insight.
The major emphasis in the second half of
the presentation is that the Kauravas and the
Pandavas are not depicted in black or white.
The script has been so woven and devised that it
taints all in hues of grey. Victory in war becomes
the motto and the subtle emotions of human
relationships are trampled under this war. The
Mahabharat is a mirror of today’s society, where
families’ feud over materialistic gains as
opposed to everlasting family values.

A note on music
Strange are the ways of Krishna! He came into
my life through the doors of the guru-shishya
tradition adopting as a medium in the person of
Veena Modi, now my dear and beloved friend,
philosopher, mentor, guide, and student of
music. She came to me for lessons in music, and

gave to me dakshina that I will always be
grateful for — an open invitation into the world
of Krishna. He has given me new strength, both
in my music and in my life, thereby making me
the fortunate recipient of His ’kripa’. Granting
me the opportunity of composing the music for
Krishna-Katha is yet another example of His
grace and benevolence.
I have drawn on the bounteous cultural
wealth of Vaishnava traditions for inspiration in

this endeavour. My study of Pushtimargi text and
the Havel i Sangeet tradition has found a new
application in Krishna-Katha. Steeped and

