EXTRACT FROM
INTRODUCTION
’

by Ira Levin

An Agatha Christie is, of course, a mystery novel, cleanly written, masterfully surprising, and usually featuring
Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple. There are about eighty Agatha Christies, which in a Way is a pity, because their
continuing popularity has overshadowed a second deﬁnition of the generic noun; for an Agatha Christie is also a
mystery play, " cleanly written, masterfully surprising, and not featuring Poirot or Miss Marple. It unfolds in two
hours instead of four or ﬁve, and being both alive and more concentrated, produces a more intense pleasure. It
runs for years, or in one instance forever.
There are about a dozen of these other Agatha Christies, and in them, if one knows the turf, is an accomplishment even more awe-inspiring than those eighty odd novels. Other novelists, after all, have given us large numbers

of ﬁrst-rate mysteries; John Dickson Carr and George Simenon spring to mind.
however, has given us more than one great stage mystery.

No playwright except Christie,

Check any critic’s list of the ten or twelve masterworks

in that trickie‘st and most demanding of genres and you’ll ﬁnd that each play—Night Must Fall, Angel Street, The
Bad Seed, Dial “M” fbr Murder, Sleuth, and so on——is the work of a different hand.

One real stunner per play-

wright seems to be all that’s possible, and not for want of trying. The sole exception is Dame Agatha. who managed
to write not one, not two, but three of the great stage mysteries : Ten Little Niggers, Witness for the Prosecution and

The Mousetrap.

When you have seen them perhaps you too will wonder that the second deﬁnition of an Agatha

Christie isn’t as widely known as the ﬁrst.
Agatha Christie turned to playwriting in the midst of her novel-writing career for a reason that was, like the

lady herself, both modest and astute. Other playwrights had adapted some of her novels to the stage; they had
erred, she felt, in following the books, too closely. A rare complaint for a novelist, believe me. But “a detective story is particularly unlike a play...” she explains in her autobiography. “It has such an intricate plot, and usually
so many characters and false clues, that the thing is bound to be confusing and overladen. What was wanted was
simpliﬁcation”.
And so, with Ten Little Niggers, she decrded to try the job herself. She proved to be instinctively theatrical,
and ruthless as no other playwright would have dared be with her work. Three of her plays—Appointment with
Death, The Hollow, and Go Back for Murder—are adapted from Poriot novels, but you won’t ﬁnd Poirot listed in
the dramatispersonae'; Dame Agatha deemed him unneccessary. In Appointment with Death she found a new murderer among'the principal characters; the novel’s murderer becomes the play’s comic relief. Nowhere is Agatha
Christie’s remarkable ingenuity more evident than in her adaptation of Witness for the Procecution. The short story
of the same title is seemingly perfect and complete, with a stunning ﬁnal revelation that lifts the reader in his chair.

Yet for the stage version Dame Agatha devised still another revelation beyond that one, an entirely plausible surprise
that not only makes for an electrifying curtain but at the same time legitimizes what would otherwise have been a
necessary deception in the list of characters. Verdict is her only play not adapted from another Christie work.
The Mousetrap, based on a radio sketch to commemorate the eightieth birthday of Queen Mary, is the Christie
play that is running forever. It opened in London in 1952 and has been wearing out actors, furniture, and theatrical
records ever since. Cynics attribute its perpetual run to the smallness of the theater in which it plays, but that small
theater was there long before 1952; why did none of its previous tenants become a tourist attraction as popular as
Madame Tussaud’s and the Tower of London? The Mousetrap is a superbly constructed mystery, irresistibly suspenseful from its very ﬁrst moment, and therein lies the real reason for its enduring success.

I was ﬁfteen when my parents took me to see the New York production of Ten Little Niggers. As those ﬁguo
rines vanished one by one from the mantelpiece and the actors vanished one by one from the stage, I fell in love—with theater that grips and dazzles and surprises. l was already a would-be novelist, thanks in part to the other
Agatha Christies; now 1 was a would-be playwright too. That 15-year-old boy and I are pleased to be introducing
' this

la to ou.
p y
y
New York City, June, 1978

—Ira Levin

है

है

है

CHRISTIE, DAME AGA'I‘HA MARY CLARISSA nee MILLER
1890—1976
Born in Torquay, Devon, 15 Sep. 1890. Educated privately at home. Studied singing and piano in Paris.
Married : (i) Col Archibald Christie, 1914, divorced 1928, one daughter (ii) Archaeologist Max Mallowan, 1930.
Served as nurse in WWar l & II. Accompanied husband to excavations in Iraq & Syria. Died 12 Jan. 1976.
है

है

है

DRAM ATECH’S recent productions :
S. Sanyal’s BAEL SE MUTHBED [हुँ] Tennessee William’s THE GLASS MENAGERIE
Moliere’s BICHHOO [गु Harold Pinter’s THE BIRTHDAY PARTY

