टू i . i'L.

.

Dance of Life

/

Bliai'atanatyam and Kuchipud i exponent Yamini Krishriam urt hy, who was recently awarded the
Padma Vibhushan. looks back at hei'joui'ney in dance

rm i new ul
(FlDl II my;

a lu: गृ i-u_
aun

८. IIn नaI u

L
he with Mylapore GowriAinma

modernvday “puritan” Bharatanaryam by
strippingitoli
_

sumsiiuKHURANA प

erotic elements Krishnaiiiurthy’s lather was
a scholar and interested in the arts which I5
why shelearnt the same art (emand had her

IORMUNGARA, asix-year-oldTelugu-speaking girlgrowing up inChidarnhaiam inTamil
Naduin the’505. there was somethingiriysti»
calabout the ZDOO-year—old ThilIai Namajah
Timple thatstood notfarfromherhauseﬂe it
the bronze statues and stone sailpniies do.L
pitting various deities and legends about
Nataraja's mandav or the famed gold-plated
gopuizrins and the thousand-pillaied iiiaiidu- pas. she would perennially"get lost in the
inag‘col'thistemple and its stories".The giaae
and grandeur of the teriiple and the people
who
in stonewas iiivocadonenouyifor
the littlengto swirlintire temple,holdingher

omnitgetium in Chennai Unnl one day. when

arickshaw pulled over in front other house
anddanceteadierVedantharn Lamnarayana
Sasti'i stepped out “He insisted that a Telugu
speakingng should learnKudiipudi and not

Bharatanatyam. I told him I enjoyed
Bharatanatyam but he could also teachme
Kuchipudi.“ says Krishnartiurtlry. who was ininiediately smitten by Kudu pudi‘sगांभीर्य/प्यारा. its

lluid form and qurck nriiia “It suited nry terripet Itwas lyrical. like poetry iii monon Being
good at IL set me apart.“ saysKl'ISlIILIIIIUIllIy

Butthe dance formwas mroidered folk at

skirt lookingup in awe.

Yearslater. inthe early70s, when the little
gin who grew upto be YarniniKrishnamurthy

that timeand not Lima]by the punts"Itiey
called itﬁlni dance and looked doim upon it

was spinning and showcasing variations of

ButI danced all overthe world With it. Glotnl

Kuchipudl attheRashti'apat'i Bhawan. theaudience was left delighted,the guest list included Canadian PM Herve Trudeau.who. to
then Pnnie Minisuerlndiia Gandhi‘s surprise,
went up onstage. held her hands and said,
"Keep dancing, Don'tsmpJust keep dancing"
“Suchwas the pull nfherdandiig."said dance
critic Sunil Kotliari at adinner hosted by
KrisliiiainurtIIYS Inend Anita Singli.director.
Indian Musrc Society. recently

III "found my
pq kashtlio (summit).
somethln that an artlste

migration lielpal and Kudiipudi was soon
rorisidered an important tlasswal art form"
says Krishnarriurtliy. who is the Asthana
Nartliaki of the Iiruiiiala Tirtipathi
Devasthanarii. a position offered to her by
the temple iii Chittnor.where KlblIII-lmunlty
was born

5 ends a l fetlmeseeklng.
hat more does one need?
There Is no frustration
or regret

iiiteiiiiptt‘d. leaniand trawl. "Ilia sutu'ss IS

The dtiyenne oIBIiaraBnatyani. Knchipudi

‘

and Odn’si.three outoIsix recognised classical
dance formsIn India, was awarded Padrna

lus.ii id hisurnipletelv. It wasiii in y tohaiean

YA MI NI KR I SHN AM U RTH Y
0iNc E R

Vibhushaii try the Government of India this

year. Iler Padnia Sliri came in I968, whilethe
Path“1
iii200l.
‘
l

"
n.qu
tounderstandthateverytliinggoingsniootlily
is unique. I am grateful and fulﬁlled. I have
found my puirikuslirlui (suinniiti soiiielliing

I है a
rat
more does one nech there is no frustration
UI regret,It's been a wonderful lile," says
Knslinainurtliy. wrapped III a bright yellow
silk sari. inlliiii: Iier kolil—iiiiiiiied eyes at
Vanuiiisthixil oi DJIILU III I laurKlth At 75.

Hon-evenSim didn‘t (time mthoiitthat
lenses or sacriliees Her father sold must of
their property so that hisgirl mold dame un»

her
'

l! ३ t ‘

H l was tiaw

GOsand

'70s ने a time when classical dance hadJust
stepped out of temples and (आत्मा and onto
the piust‘eiiiui ii stage.

r..,

I l

.

I

.

who learnt danceat Kalakshetra fora while
but withdrew because of the reginieiited

schedule.She Liter learnthui ii thelat tied tailii

७

and (Liming, India tLid-lttaiiied iiitlt‘pentluiwe
some yeais ago. I hii it; were settling and arts
were being valued, I cameat the right time.
'1 his wasn‘t a “mu when tlant‘cwas being
looked down npoil I II atiatlied to pnisiiiunon

Kitlappa l
‘
i
‘ ‘'7 '
‘
Gown Aiiiiiia
Blurataiiatyani'5status owes inuthto wltit
Rukiniiii Devi Aruiidaletlitl I» ll She took

Sadltir ~ the dame iii the devadasis, tttlbltl
eiedvulxat in the '10s

and “Hum. it IIIlil

uniiiarriuldaughter tlaiite allriver, My \L\(Pr
also दुआएं up her warm soihir iiioiieyuiuld go
III IllytlJIILL‘.She had.i lmt‘lVश्याम्भ. sos‘he lie_
t|lelitii\\ Mviiioihcriimiint
happy With “It siriiaiinii lint had to mate
peatrwrili it. l'iiiruiiuitiit-aitdgladthai ५11५1n‘t [in ii had and let him down,"
\ivs Kirshiuiiiurtln'
'
‘
'
‘liose not to many.a lll‘n'

sioiislit-siysiixbsuiiiiisi : ( nuiiiiloirahle
hit others and t'uiiiplt-n‘lv nniiiial Inr ltt'l
"liaiiu‘ii'aw tuliillnnzciintnili I tlltllt l imxl a
nun in ५८५५'।।।०1५५'1८11।।1;१7णा l‘JlIu‘tlltlllHI
IIIlllt‘ll‘H'rl\\llL|llt\llt“ slit-xiv

