'1‘ hea.tr e

as a means of
International Understanding
.

President The International Theatre Institute UNESCO, Paris.

There has never been a time in world history where it was so important for the
peOples of the world to understand each other: to recognize each other’s likenesses, to
accept each other's differences, to appreciate and value the finest elements in each
other's way of living, thinking and expression.

One of the most effective means by which

we can acquire this much needed knowledege is the theatre. For the theatre is a microcosm of human life, a synthesis of the arts, a place of communion where artist and
audience take part in the act of creation.
Drama is a “thingdone” and it is this quality of action that has made it, since
the beginning of history, one of the most powerfull and certainly the most popular means
of expression through which man has sought to understand himself, his fate his gods, his
relation to the universe.
In India, I was told, an ancient saying indicates that the object of education is to
"help man transcend the world's turmoil and obtain composure." T. S. Eliot said much
the same thing when he defined the function of art as bringing us to a condition serenity,
stillness and reconciliation. Reconciliation not only with ourselves but with our neighbour
reconciliation through understanding which is derived in the theatre through the powerfull
and moving effect of a shared experience The theatre in Robert Sherwood's words is
' the dwell ing-place of wonder" and if today it is too often associated with trivial recreation
entertainments fabricated for the parennially infantile mind, this is only because a certain
side of the theatre seems at the moment to predominate.
The theatre has always had to major aspects.
masked

Muse

On the one hand

there

is the theatre,

it is a two faced, or rather two
that

is sprang

from

ritual,

from the symbolic enactment of man's concepts of his relation to God, and on the other
explosive force of his relation to nature, his fears and ecstasies, his relation to the cyclic
year, his physical joys and terrors, Greek tragedy on the one side; Greek comedy on the
other. The temple and the market place; the altar and the platform in the market place.
After the classic period the theatre disappeared from our Western culture as it
declined in the East also. When it reappeared in Eur0pe after the Dark Ages, it was born

