once more in the temple, before the altar of the Catholic Church while the troubad0urs,
dancers and jugglers, direct descendents

of the Greek

and

Roman rnirnes, continued to

excercise their calling in the highways and beways of the Western world.

Before long

however the theatre was ejected from the Church, it became enti rely secular and has so
remained with slight exceptions until today. One of the elements in the theatre India,
particularly, of course, it the dance drama that specially fascinated me was the presence of
religious element. The preservation of in tbe dance of elements ritual, as well as the use
of the relious myths and fables as subject matter gives the Indian traditional dance and
drama a special richness and perspective.
How then can this great art serve the cause of mutual understanding ? It has of
course done so continully by providing the theatres the worlds over with a storehouse of
the classic darrna. The classic masterpieces of Greek, India, England and France or part
of the living library of every modern repertory company. The modern classics such as
Ibsen, Shaw and even Eugene O' Neill are played in all the countries that have a modern

stage. There are however many way in which the uses of the theatre as a
strengthening the bonds between peoples can be enormously increased.

means of

It was with this thought in mind that a group of theatre experts met in Paris in
1947-just thirty eight years ago-t0 found under the auspices of UNESCO, the International
Theatre Institute. Its founders hoped, by establishing a vehicle for exchange of ideas an
practices in the theatre arts, to provide “one stout thread for the fabric of world
society"
as J. B. Priestly expressed it. “The theatre is particularly important in the field of international understanding",he added. “A well-written play, finely acted. may do more than
fifty speeches by well meaning politicians. It shows us people, their hopes
and fears,
doubts and dreams." It is a living link between living people.

After twenty years the International Theatre Institute can look with considera
ble
satisfaction on its achievement and is already embarked upon a new
decade of activity
arising in no small measure out of the findings of the First World
Conference on Theatre
held in Bombay in 1956. When the ITI was founded
it laid down a work-programme of

four major lines of activity : information, publications, the
exchange of persons, the exchange of companies. Since then the “Theatre and
Youth” section which is ultimately
concerned with the theatre in education has been
a fifth and in the future increasingly
Important activity, the accomplishment in the first
of these five field can be only briefly
summarised here, for much of influence of the
lTl is imponderable; ideas international
exchange in the theatre have been stimulated
every where.

For instance, national programmes such the United
States Fulbright and SmithMundt scholarships have been enlarged to inclu
de theatre specialists. These specialists,
once in the country of their, have been aided,
guided, and oriented by the Theatre Centres

of the ITI itself since 1947 has been notab
le. It now has thirty centres literally circl
ing the
globe and its congresses, the latest of which
was held in Athens have been received in
seven different countries. Four or five
important conference including that
of Bombay in

