1956 have permitted specialists of various kinds to meet add discuss certain particular
aspect of theatre.

The Bombay World Conference was an example of this type of intensive dis—
cussion. leading as it did to the promulgation of the plan for an Asian Faculty of Theatre.
The plan was then submitted to UNESCO at its New Delhi Conference in the same year
and is now well under way as readers of Natya know.
In the first four specific fields of its activits, the |T| has carried out its original

plan with even greater success than could have been foreseen. Its active National Centres
are constantly supplying needed information in all forms to hundreds of theatre people
everywhere. The illustrated quarterly magazine, World Theatre. is serving a much needed
purpose by supplying a forum and debating ground for theories and practices in the arts of
the theatre.

It has also published special issues devoted to the theatre of one country.

the special issue on India being an outstanding example, written as it was by Indian
theatre leaders and handsomer illustrated.

The monthly bulletin World Premisers gathers within its modest covers information on “first nights" of new plays from all the major theatre centres of the globe.
newly published volume on

Stage Design Since 1935

in

one

The

of the handsornes theatre

books of the moment and has been enthusiastically received by a wide public.

New pro-

jects in this fie!d are under way and will continue to help weave that “one stout thread"
Priestly spoke of.
Artists and acting companies, specialists, students and teachers sponsored by the

lTI or encouraged and assisted by its National Centres are an even more powerful element
in strengthening that fabric of mutual understanding so necessary to the happy develornent
of the peaceful world, The "Theatre of the Nations" in Paris, outcome of the highly
successful Festival of the City of Paris, has proved the immense interest in theatres of
every nation when the finest of that country's work

barrier disappears barrier disappears before great art.

is

presentee abroad.

The language

The three or fore-year tour of Porgy

and Bess, the immense success of the baller companies in Europe and America, the delight
with which such a great artist as Uday Shankar was received in the United States, is only

comparable to the interest evoked by Martha Graham in Japan and India and Marian
Anderson on her world-wide tour. All these events from a part of an increasing awareness
everywhere of the immense value of the arts of the theatre in promoting mutual understanding arnong the people of the earth.

