BULLUQUIUM

Background Material For
“THEATRE FOR 218T CENTURY ”

The Theatre of the 21st Century - What will it be like?
Will it be contemporary or will it be traditional .7

it be folk?

Wil it be modern .7 Will
The question that looms

large over all these interrogatories is that — Will there be any theatre at all in the 21 st
Century ? These are some of the querries that cross one's mind as one ponders over the
shape of things to come. Perhaps, an H. G. Wells or a George Orwell was better suited
to make these projections.
As we prepare to advance in to next century, with its promise of a life filled in

with electronic wonders and computerised conforts, the mind naturally lingers back to
debate on the future of human endeavour and performing arts like music, dance, ballet,
drarnatics, opera and the like.
form their content.

One wonders what will be

Let us begin by examining the present.

their form or what will

It there a crisis in the performing arts ?

The question is obviously rhetorical, the unanimous opinion that the problem is fast
approaching critical point.
Nobody is

in disagreement over the cause.

Theatre companies are all

experiencing an

Musical

inflation increase

by a correSponding decrease in private giving.

groups, dance troupes,
in expenses, accompanied

In the world of arts, the gap between

income and expenses is steadily widening. Almost all cultural activities in this country
are being subsidized in some form or shape. How long can this situation be allowed
to persist? Most important, the traditional sources of support - particularly the big
industrial houses and the Government are reducing, rather than increasing their subsidies
to arts, specially theatre.

Business concerns are

reluctant to be

associated with dramas

because many of them have controversial themes or advocate causes that are not in tune
with the views of the corporate sector.
While today, perhaps more than before,

for the quality of life.
The arts crisis,

the educated regard,

arts,

to be

important

Yet, there seems to be considerable confusion over what arts is.

in particular,

is a lack of clear definition of what we are talking about.

“There is no natural voice of sufficient strength to make qualitative judgements".

There

is no strong National Policy either, as far as, the nourishment of theatre is concerned.
The growing list of requirements,

rules and

regulations to which each

institution

must conform in order to receive Government money, is yet another cause for concern.
Like the private educational institutions, the performing arts organisations are learning
that Government money has restrictions, as well as advantages.
And, while the
Government's insistence on compliance with social action programmes is undoubtedly
preferable to its previous pressure for conformity in the political area, the consequences
may be just a limiting to the artist. One cannot escape the conclusion that the major
sources of financial support, which spell the difference between the survival and
extinction, are either in the process of drying up or are proving insufficient. The result :
the performing arts are destined to undergo a profound change.

