The Theatre, at first, lost a considerable chunk of its audience to cinema, and the
challange is now being posed by Television. Video films appear to be far more formidable

than is generally believed.

As a matter of fact, the general effeCt 01‘ 8“ thIS IS on

theatre-man which has been far from salutary.

Well, in our mixed economy, the private enterprise has certainly made its contributions
to our national life, but it has not done well by our cities or our natural environment

and it is not likely to do much for our music dance or theatre.

What is Obviously required

now is for the Government to recognise that the performing arts are an endangered natural
resource, worthy of preservation like other treasures of nature and like them, in serious
jeopardy of being polluted by commercial wastes. After all, one does not measure the
value of DAL LAKE or the CORBETT PARK by the number of tourists they attract or how
many Shikar's they support; by the same reasoning. the arts must not be subject to
economical or numerical criteria.

They are nourishment for the soul and as Bernard Shaw observed in a passage - the
soul is a very expensive thing to feed — “lt eats music, pictures, books, mountains and
lakes and beautiful things to wear and nice people to be with. You can’t have
them
without lots of money that is why our souls are so horribly starved".
In our ownsoul starved country, we cannot have such things without
lot of money
either. But if we lose the performing arts, after this long and
difficult struggle to create
and sustain them, then the blight on our spirits will be irrevers
ible and profound.

It is for such reasons that theatre men must sit togeth
er and seriously consider the
shape of theatre for the 21 st Century. They must devise
ways and means to make it more
Vibrant, more pulsating, more meaningful, while adheri
ng to its besic tenets. Should it
comprise with the changing mood of the peOple
, should performances be abridged to
save time, should productions be based on
electronic gadgetary, should performer be
dwarfed, should the classics be secrificed
in favour of popular themes. What
must be

done to restore and preserve the appeal
of the decaying but still a very powerful
mass
media like the stage. These are some of
the questions to which answers must
be
soug
ht
today
for securing a better tomorrow.

— Dr. Satya Murty

With best Compliments from :

M/s. Poonam Trading Co
mpany
110 / 245
,

N E H R U

NA GA R ,

K A N P U R.

With best Complimenrts from :

N 1' i t y a
(An Instit

B »h a r t i

ution of South Indian
Classical Dance)

Bal Nikunj, Swaroop
Nagar, Kanpur.

