D A R P A N , Kanpur
26 . 4 . 86

‘SHA'I‘RANJ KE MOHRE’
THROUGH

A

PRISM

It is privilege to declare that I entered that Theatrical world only because of Shri
Habib Tanvir. First I met him in writers' workshop at woodlands Retreat, Andretts. He
was specially called from New Delhi to produce a play AAGAM written by me, which was
presented at the open-Air-Theatre of Mrs. Norah Richards in June, 1958. Since then I
worked with him till 1970.

Afterwards a diversion come to my career.

to Son-et-lumare (Light 8 Sound Programmes),

I devoted my self

l have written and produced about 22

programmes so far, the last was for Government of Haryana in 1982.
it was 1962, when Srnt. Malti Gilani was the Genral Secretary of the Indian
National Theatre-this play was presented by l.N.T. in Delhi in February, with Sushrna Seth

(Dadi Maa of T.V. Serial of HUM LOG) as 'Abbasi’, Zohra Sehgal as “Begam Mirza", Late
Dinanath Zutshi as ’Mujavir' and in repeated production
Tanvir performed ’Mujavir’.

in September 1969 Shri Habir

In transfering the Prern Chand's story into a three-act-play liberties have been
taken by writer Habib Tanvir justto accentuate the fundamental spirit of the play. New
characters like MUJAVIR and KlSAN have been introduced in order to give full dramatic
expression to Prem Chand's theme. The same consideration follows in the development
of Abbasi's character which is some what different from the original story.

For building up the atmosphere of decadent Lucknow of the mid-19th century, as
Habib Bhai said that he had recourse to the phrases stocked in the encyclopaedic FASANAE-AZAD by Pandit Ratan Nath Dar Sharshar. Mujavir's character is wholly inspired by
Sarshar's immortal KHOJI.

Believe it or not but I am disclosing a fact. This play is presented to you with
the help of non-Urdu artistes. They are pooled together from different parts of the country
knowing different regional languages-they are from Kerala,Benga|, Maharashtra 8 Punjab.
Credit goes to DARPAN and its spirit- Dr. Satya Murty

You may or may not consider this a service to URDU but I feel and am confident
that like this we are serving and can serve Urdu.

Towards the end of I would like to point out that due to the excellent
leadership
of Dr. Satya Murty the 'Darpan' has completed 25 long years and
has become a Darpan

(the mirror) for National and Emotional Integration but Dr. Satya Murti
will be the great
denier and will say after lighting a cigarette that he considers
this love, only love and First
Love for Theatre.
LONG LIVE THEATRE
—~

V । LA Y ET J A FR |

