PRODUCER’S

NOTE

To display her power to her husband, Sati manifested Herself to Shiva in the Dashmahavidya and then yeilded up her life in shame and sorrow by jumping into the sacriﬁcial ﬁre
provided by her father for the Dakshayagya.
The story described in symbols, an ever recurring human phenomenon describes the
conflict between classes and sexes. The play SHOROSHI, presented here closely resembles
the mythological tale in its essential theatrical experience.
The play is the edited and re-adapted version (in Hindi) of Sarat Chandra Chatterjee’s
“SHOROSHI”.

The original Bengali play was adapted in 1927 by the author from his own

novel published earlier in 1923 under the title “Dena Paona”.
The play was ﬁrst produced in the author’s presence in Calcutta on 12th of August 1927,
with Shishir Bhaduri and Charu Bala in the leads and -Yogesh Babu and Manoranjan 'Bhattacharya in the important roles of Rai Sahib and Sagar Sardar. The great Shishir Bhaduri played
the main role for over 30 years till the end of his illustrious career.

Though the play. in Hindi translation. has been produced several times in different parts

n may
of the country, no production could have the sway of the original. The present adaptatio
view
in
keeping
but
text
the
of
have some shortcomings arising out of editing and re-adaptation
s some
the limitations of the playing time and the demands of the changed times and audience
stage, was
editing of the text and reshaping of the original, originally shaped for a revolving
essential .

In this production I have striven to draw upon the

play’s hidden yet revealed mysticism.

of the
lVIy guideposts have been the Charak festival, thereshold of Shakti’s temple, the burning
zamindar’s pleasure house and the zamindar’s death against the background of tillers’ revelries,
on of a tribal
temple drums, mantras and setting sun—the entire pattern giving a faint suggesti
r i t 11 a I.

theatre
My endeavour has been to grope in a way towards attaining a form of honest
the
token.
same
the
by
,
which is wedded to our soil and way of existence, and also to celebrate
mystery of life.

stage, in whom
I owe gratitude to the band of theatre workers, on and at the back of the
the ambitions and limitations
I Found a rare sense of camaraderie and patience in understanding
art of play productlon.
of a student of drama still at the alphabetical stage of the

Gulshan Ka poor

