SHOBHA NAIDU
Kumari Shobha Naidu, disciple of Dr. Vempati Chinna
Satyarn, is one of the principal exponents of the Kuchipudi
dance. ३
ln 1971, the Government of lndia selected her as the leader
of the Cultural delegation to Sikkim on the occasion of the
lndependence day. In 1973, under the auspices of

Government of lndia, she lead a Cultural Delegation to the
Carribean sea, Countries like Mexico, Trinidad, Venezula,

Cuba, Guyana, etc., on the eve of Silver Jubilee Celebration
of the lndian lndependence and gave widely acclaimed

recitals. She danced with finesse and emphasis to the delight
of the discerning local audiences. ln l974, she toured Kerala
giving dance performances under the sponsorship of the
Kerala Sangeeth Nataka Academy. ln l 974, she also visited
the Uhited Kingdom and performed successfully in London,
Buckingham and other cities. ln 1979, the Government of
lndia deputed her to lead a cultural delegation to West Asia,
Tunis, Damascus, Baghdad, Ankara and Teheran. in l 983 she
visited Mauritius under the auspices of the ICC? and
performed the dance drama "Sri Krishna Paryatham”. The
lCCR again chose her recently to lead a cultural delegation to
Hongkong, Bangkok, Laos, Vietnam, lndonesia, Singapore
and Kampuchea. There was warm and spontaneous
response to her authoratative and pérceptiVe interpretation

' Pt. HARIPRASAD CHAURAsiA
This celebrated flautist, Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia, is
considered to be a great artist who has established himself in
the front rank of musicians of lndia. indeed, with his ﬂute,
Haryi creates music Of nearly every conceivable sort. in his
hands, the flute comes to life and sings yielding to his ideas
and impulses in spontaneous submission.
Unlike its counterparts in the Western world, the lndian
flute is an unpretentious, unsophisticated bamboo reed.

Made out of “hollowed out bamboo”, this legendary
instrument is reputed to have been played by the divine Lord
Krishna.
After years of arduous sadhana and training under the

guidance and direction of great masters like Shri Bholanath
and Srnt. Annapurnadevi, Hargi has lent his own artistic
individual creations on the woodwind. ln his dextrous

hands, the flute emerges from its pastoral back ground to
express nuances of classical music which are of unsurpassed
elegance. He keeps on with his extensive practice always
aiming something original. He has evolved a wonderful

blowing technique of his own which is a maSterly
achievement.
Pt. Chaurasia is not only a classicist by temperament and
training but also modern in outlook and susceptible to new

ideas. Thus, he has also lent his talent to the film industry by
composing mus IC for many films, one of which scored a gold
disc. He has travelled abroad extensively and participated in

numerous music festivals held there. He has several LP
records to his credit.

of the Kuchipudi dance form. Very recently with her troup of
l8 members she gave more than thirty performances in
various cities all over America from New York to San
Franscisco. in her honour, the Mayor of the city ofColumbus
and the Mayor of the city of Dahauna issued a proclamation
declaring May 3l, as classical lndian Dances and Dance
Drama Day.
She keeps striving for perfection. She is thoroughly
convinced that this esoteric and exotic facet of India's
priceless heritage deserves maximum support
A ,

