KSHEMAVATHI
Kshernavathi is considered as the best performer of

Mohiniyattam today. She has the largest number of
performances among the Kerala artists in as diverse field
Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and Kuchipudi. She is on
the few Mohiniyattam performers who brings forth
distinctiveness of the style superbly and maintains it from
begining to end; since a little more or less of the blending

PANDIT

NARAYAN

Sarangi, the instrument Pandit Ram Narayan plays with
great virtuosity is a bowed instrument, among the few of its
kind in the repertoire of lndian classical music. An extremely
difficult instrument to master, Ram Narayan acquired
proﬁciency early, under the tutelage of his three gurus; the
first among them being his father, the late Pandit Nathuji
Biawat.

proportions would make the dancing either insipid
Bharatanatyam or undrarnatic Kathakali.
in its present form MOHlNlYATTAM was choreographed
by Maharaja Swathithirunal. Performed only by women,
MOHlNlYATTAM has musical movements, rhvthrnic
steps, and a soft lyrical stress on sensousness.
Kshernavathi got her diploma in performing arts from
KERALA KALA MANDALAM {The state academy of classical
arts) in l965. Her Gurus were Prof. Bhaskar Rao, Srnt.

Chinnammu Amma and Satybharna. She had her advanced
studies in Bharatanatyarn under renowned wizards like Guru

Muthuswamy Pillai and Smt. Chitra Visweswaran. She then
joined Kuchipudy Art Academy, Madras and studied

Thereafter, he embarked on a career as an accompanist to
vocalists, the traditional role to which a Sarangi player was
limited. While accompanying the contemporary greats, he

Kuchipudy under Shri Vempaty China Satyarn. in l 974, she
started her own school for clasical dances, KAM
MANDlRAM, in Trichur, herself as the founder principal

imbibed different hues of their art and got steeped in lndia’s
musical traditions. This learning was to widely inﬂuence the
experimenter and the performer in him.
He was also much distressed at the restraint imposed on

where students are trained in various forms of l ndian classical
dances.

freedom of expression of his own artistic impulses and
aspiratons by the secondary role of his instrument.
Finally, in the early fifties, Ram Narayan decided to break
the mould, free himself from the unnecessary shackles of
traditions. With one daring decision he took the plunge.
Although the initial reception to the new role of the Sarangi
was not enthusiastic, after early trials and tribulations, in 1957,
Ram Narayan's avant garde efforts bore fruit.
His performances won the hearts of innumerable
discerning music lovers, critics, rnusicologists and performers

alike, and established the Sarangi as a solo concert
instrument. Since then Ram Narayan has never looked back.
He has performed extensively in lndia and abroad winning
wide acclaim and numerous notable awards from
institutions and governments such as- Padmashree and
Sangeet Natak Academy Award. A popular, much sought
after performing artiste, Ram Narayan has also participated in
various prestigious music festivals and conferences world
over, enthralling his audiences.

Ram Narayan’s unique role in the ﬁeld of lndian classical
musig and more particularly his contribution to the present
status and popularity of the Sarangi are of such import that
Yehudi Menuhin was moved to pay this glowing tribute to
Ram Narayan. He said, “l cannot separate the Sarangi from
Ram Narayan, so throughly fused are they, not only in my
memory, but in the fact of this sublime dedication of a great
musician to an instrument which is no longer archaic
because of the matchless way he has made it speak.”

She got. the Sangeet Natak Academy award (The biggest
honour given to the performing artists) for Bharatanatyam in
1976. She has visited and performed in West Germany
France, Spain, UK. and U.S.S.R. Recently, she was sent to
the prestigious Festival of lndia, France.

