PRATAP & PRIYA PAWAR
Pratap and Priya Pawar are popularly known as “lndia’s

Divine Dancing Couple". Pratap and Priya came out of lndia
on the Government of India's deputation to popularise the

art of ’Kathak’ and ’Odissi’ dances. They have trained over
seven hundred students from different races, during their 8
year stay in the Caribbean countries and the West Indies.

Pratap and Priya Pawar have received training in the most
authentic and traditional manner from the great gurus of
lndia, such as Shri Birju Maharaj, Shri Sharnbhu Maharaj,
Pandit Sunder Prasadji, Kundanlalji, - Guru Kelu Charan
Mohapatra and Hare krishna Behra. Pratap Pawar had the
honour of being the very ﬁrst discipline of Shri Birju Maharaj.
The Pawars have received their training at the Bharatiya Kala
Kendra and Kathak Kendra in New Delhi.

For the last five years Pratap and Priya have been residing
in London. Pratap has taught for three years at the Bharatiya
Vidya Bhavan, London and Priya is associated with the
National Association for Asian Youth London. Jointly they

have trained a very strong group ofyoung classical dancers in
London. Presently, Pratap is attached with the Academy of
lndian Dance as Director of Choreography, Kathak Dance
Department,

USTAD NISAR HUSSAIN KHAN
Nisar Hussain Khan was born in the District of Rampur of
UP. He needs no introduction as he is one of the country’s
top-ranking Khayal and Tarana singers. He received his initial
training from his grandfater, Ustad Hydar Khan, and
subsequently from his illustrious father, Ustad Fida Hussain.
He was a Court M usician of Baroda for thirtyyears. His style is
a cornbiation of two Gharanas, those of Sahaswan and
Rampur, which he renders with great distinction. His boltans
in Tarana is his special contribution to lndian music. His virile
and polished vocal style has won him a high place in the
world of Hindustani Classical music and he has been the
recepient of many honours, such as, PADMA BHUSAN in
1970; a Tamra Patra presented to him by the Prime Minister
on behalf of the Sangeet Natak Akademy; Sangeet
Maharnahopadhyaya by the Hyderabad Gandharva Mahavidyalaya in 1968, Tamra patra Academy Award by the Uttar
Pradesh Natak Academy, Lucknow in 1971, and also received
its Fellowship in’ 1972. He headed lndia’s goodwill missions
to NEPAL and AFGANlSTHAN in 1975. He attended Musical
Conference at LONDON in 1976, He also received the l.T.C.
award in the month of November, 1982 at Delhi and also
recepient of GOLD MEDAL AWARD and TAMRA PATRA by
the Madhya Pradesh in TANSEEN FESTIVAL at GWALlOR I
held in the month December, 1987,

Pratap and Priya have extensively toured and performed
both on stage and television in various parts of the world,
including the U.S.S.R., Hong Kong, Japan, Philippines,
Thailand, Burma, Laos, lndonesia, Singapore, Ceylon,
Caribbean countries, West indies, East and West Africa,
South America, Europe and also performed in over thirty
states in the United States of America.
Pratap and Priya’s most recent tours include to countries
such as Switzerland, ltaly and France, appearing in major
festivals and national television programmes there

