शूरु

.

, v
.p
l

'हैं

'

Actorsduririgtlre rehearsal ofPratibadhh Hoon (above): lokeshjain. OirrciiirAiiaiid

__.. शां _. न…च्चा
A -

Poetic In'ustice
A new play revisits the satirical poems ofBaba Nagarjuna

WHENTHEATREdirector Lokeshjain isangry
withthe state ofthe nation.he seekskindling
in the poems of famous poet Baba Nagarjuna
He hadﬁrst read him atT8 and been coopted
bythe unusual conceits andmulti-layered wit

Nagarjuna‘s poems are as rustic and ec—

centricas the manwas. Awanderer; whowas
famously unable to stay in a place long
enough, Nagarjunavisited the deep interiors
of India andWrote about thepeoplewho had
slipped through the cracks. He wrote in Hindi
and Maithili between the '305 and '805 and
the play, Pmtibadhh Hoon. attempts to recre—
ate the oﬁbeat humour of imageries, such as
“alpsankhako ka achar” and "baaki reh gaya

anda".Theproduction will be staged at Delhi's
StudioSafdarﬁorrr September 25 to 27.
"1 have gone through Nagarjuna's 2,000poems in aperformance text?‘ Thepoems becorrrethe dialogues the actors speak but the
sub-text is expressed through their bodies."

says liokesh He has used physicaltheatre to
express Nagarjuna's proletariats, from a
labourer toa goatherd to an Adivasi, as pro-

'

It (the poetry) shows how
communallsm seeps In and
affects the economlcally

weaker class. it Isamazlng
how so manyof
Nagarjuna's concerns still
exist In our country

Nagarjuna tackles his existentialism.follows
seamlessly and leads into a paean about an
uprisinggrass—root movement thatcontains
theﬁrst stirrings of Naxalism — Hum aap hi
apney leaderhai, aap hi apney rriukhiyajungle
aurpahar humane. . ..
The actors work with props such as a giant eg that breaks open to reveal shoes — a
symbol of Dalit profession and oppression.
रे H The only female actor in the group, lokesh's
wife Chhavi Jain. iscovered in bubble wrap
and plastered with shipping stickers of
"Fragile" and "ThisSide Up". as she begins to
narrate a poem about a poor woman who
writes to her migrant worker husband to
come home soon. even ifempty handed.
When Nagarjuna travelled to satisfy his

?

LOK EsHJ AIN
THEATRE DIRECTOR

tagonists of the play. The rehearsal space is
chaotic asthe ﬁve actorstryto channel the energy of their bodies into controlled vigour.
Sweat ﬂies.muscles are pulled and spinesand
other organs mined in forceful gestures. ‘The
poems are full of metaphors and theactors
needed intensemovements to bringthese out

jailed for 11 months." says lokesh, as the actors erupt into a poem about the favourite
pastimeof politicians — makingannounce—
ments and promises. “Om ghoshnaye, Om

through actions." says the director:

warrderiust. hetold stories ofsubaltems such
as abus driver. whochats with him aboutthe
colourful glass bangles of his daughter". and
the rickshaw puller Kalimuddin. who calls
himselfPrem Prakash and wears chandan
and rudruksh to earn a living. "This is one of
themost powerful poems in the selection. it
shows how comrnunalisrn seeps in and af-

_._ थि N , .cV—T”-..

poet more than 20 years in the making.

दृ ८ -८.. . ._.

but the world has already forgotten them,"
they say in Hindi. Pmtibadhh Hoon. in which

— which makes his forthcoming play on the

2,500 works. I thought, ‘Why not tie up the

-. ह्वा.-‘-4 __.< v ८ c ३ e

spaces and characters.
Dead bodieslie on the ﬂoor at thebegin—
३ ningofthe play. Asthe Buddhist chants phase
inand out— Nagarjuna, a Brahmin,who con—
vertedto Buddhism —the characters awaken
and rise slowly while utteringa poem about
unsungheroes. “Only afewdays havepassed.

D|PAN ITA NATH

fects the economically weaker class." says

Lokesh. before adding, “Itisamazing how so

bhashan, Om pravachan. Om tribute . ...Om

many of Nagarjuna's concerns still exist in 1
our country."

“One thing I saw clearly was that

dharti.. .they chant Theyswitch roles rap—

Theplaywill be staged at StudioSafdar रे

Nagarjuna spoke against whichever party
was in power. Duringthe Emergency. hewas

idly. picking up lines from one another in
ways that split single poems into multiple

from September25 to 22 Visit
www.jananatyamanchorg

/"

