t'ii't'i eI s i o r MAGAZINE
fl (/
/

Celebrating its 34th Foundation Day

NA'I‘RANG— a name which brought Jammu
into International limelight
National/International limelight is completing
33 eventful happening yr‘ars today. Founded by
Padams
Balwant 'Ihaltur as a student of
University ofJamrrlu with the help ofhis fellow
students on 15th ofMay, 1983 Natrang madeits
humble beginning with the staging of two classic plays 'Neeli Jheel‘ and 'Nuhen Kandhey
Nanhen Pair' at Abllinav Theatre, Jarnrrlu. The
sum: who featured in the ﬁrst prsentation of
Natl-ans under the direction of Balwant 'I
included Vijay Attri, Aasha Arora, Arvind
Singh, Prabodll Jamwal and

Arurl Sharon. Following this the joining of
Suresh Shanna, Jugal Kaul, Nariendr SaChhal'.

Sunit Kumar. Namrata Sin-i and

' hankar

try and revolutionized the cultural life of the
place through it‘s out ofthe world cultural and
intellectual initiatives. Jarurrlu's cultural history
had never \vitrlesed lg canvas mega cultural
extmvaganrns like 'Rangla Jam r
',
'Gulab Gathazl', ‘Hurn Ham Naa'. Celebrating
Diversity 'Choona llai Aasrrlaan'. 'Suno Tagore
Di' and 'Udaan' featuring 500 to 700 hundred
artists on stag
'
highly scholarly “searched, historically autlleuo

tic

turally pure not only educated the

general masses about the rich heritage oftllis re—
gion but also brought a sense ofpride in them
for their immense cultur
we
years the plays which overshadowed the theatre
eerie of the country included 'Bawa Jitto'
'Ghumayee‘ 'Mallahhoj' 'Aap Hamare llain
Kaun' 'Chauraha' 'l’oster' 'Mere liisse Ki Dhoop
Kahan llai‘ ‘Sainyau Bhaye Kotwal‘ 'Ralttbeej

Shanna, Mohl’t Shanna. Rnlut \‘l-nnn, Molld.
en. Rnllul Singh, Pankush \‘erma, (‘rmlrav

1८८ shows all—over the rrgon including in on

-<

श्याh i Th 3knr
8
Narrang, the ultimate name in the ﬁeld of
culture, a mission which bro
Jammu in

Kargll, Kashmir, Doda. Kisthwar, Rambau.

Rajouri and Poonch regions Natrallghas also e»
…

s v)! Natrclng

merged as an impomnl promoteror peace in a
region known for violence and cross Cultural

brought National/ International honors a
claims From National scholars in llllcmnlmnnl
fellowships these recognitions ४४९५- a distinct l»
denmy and pride lo Jammu lhcnrre l’rullllnent
honors included International fellowships to
Balwarlt 'Illakur (Ford Foundation USA) Harrsh
Khanna (British Council, UK) Ashish NiJhawan
(Inlaks, USA), National Awards to Balwant
’Ihakur (Padamshree, Sangeat Natal: Akaderlli
Award, Sanskriti Award. National Senior

conﬂict. lr organlses regular workshops and us
es theatre as a hmling and lrarrsformanve lool

for change in the region. Though Nan—ring has
many rarest accorrlplishlrlents to it‘s credit bul
few of us initiatives ve createda history in the
theane world. Nanang's Dogn play Ban: Jitto
l5 the longst llvmg oonlernporary play in India
which is being played regularly Since the year
r986. Sunday Theatre series is the only weekly
theatre show of India W'hldl is being
held since the year 2004 Without break and has
crossed over record 600 shows. Nalrang 5
Children play 'Aap Hamaare llairl Kaun' is a»

Fellowship. Gurushree Samoan, Abhiuayak
Sarrlaan, World Theatre day Honor,

HRD

Honour) Sanjeev Gupta (Sangeet Natak
Akadelrli's Yum Blsmalla Khan Award) Sumeet
Sharma (Sangeet Natak Akademl‘s Yin-a
Bismalla Khan Award) Ashish Nijhowan

gain the longest linng theatre play ofthe noun
try winch is being स्याहा regularly since 1994

Pandita further strengthened this movement.
This is perhaps tlle ﬁrst institution of Jammu
which laid a strong foundation of profwional
than: in the city. In it's very ﬁrst year, the
d
won the State Amderny award for best production ufthe year 1983 and continued the sumsi've winning spree till I986 when it decided be—
ing profasional not to be a part ofthis amateur
competition. Credited for sprading the wings
ofJammu theatre to other parts ofIndia, within
one year. the outstanding productions of

and has the creditof having unveiled the Whole
length and breadth ofthe country.
Future drums
Namng has a dram IorJammu anda mission to mahlish this place as an International
destination of theatre. By another few years we

see Natung asone ofthe most creativehappen
lngplane in India.An out ofworid destination of
cultural enthusiasts. A place which will not only
have the required infrastructure bur also the l:pacity and the skilled human mount to host
National/Inteman'onal events. A drum world
for children - a space for their cream! outlet
and आश all artistic youth The Institution is
all set to create an louman'onalln’ll mmpus in
Jammu housing an auditorium, two Studio
Theatres. theatre raidcncs. mum: cenne
and a an exclusive centre for children. Nanang
since its inception has been
‘
ofmt—
ing a space a lrlulti am oompler which catersto

Natnng started receiving invitations from other
parts ofthe countryand by 1985 the group had
already won the bat production, best ‘
or
and bat actor awards in majority ofAllvlndia
Qlltural Compstitions.

The nun behind
Balwult Thakur is the man behind this
biggest cultural movement ofthe regionwho in
devotion, dedimted his entire life in shaping
this irlsu'tution and brought this to thm ultimate heights. He never took any governmen-

all formsof artistic exprasionswith prime locus
totheatre. Withthe belief that happening of di-

tal/non-guvemmenul बप्राम1टान् outside the
state of J&K just for the rmson as he
be available 24X7 for this mission.
Accredited by UNESCO as director, Balwnnt
Thakur Ls tlle hiﬂlat Indian honour holder in
put
‘
arts
० has
decanted
with Padamshree. Sanskriti Award winner,
"“ L '
'
l
"
urizyears
has also to his credit the prestigious Maharaja
Gulab Singh Memorial Award in addition to
Rabindra Nath Tagore Award, World Theatre
Day honour, Ford Foundation USA fellowship,
Ahhinayak Smman, Gunlshree Samrllan.
Duggar Rattan and BIG Duggar Award.
Travelled extensively, Balwmt Thakur has had

verse range oiarn'stic activities at one planeatr—

ries n larger impact on ch other. it helps in
'Colrledy of'l‘errors' 'Suno Eh Kahani' 'Kanjoos'
'Holi' 'Mind Garrles' 'Richard III' 'Grea
Expectations' and ‘Kaun Nachaye Naach'.
Nat'rang produoa‘l over one thousnnd actors
and ume l
i
' ﬁlm and TV
world as well, Prominent among them include
Bhanu Goswami , Anjali Abral, Sunil Palwal.
Hal-15h Khalil-la. Neeelu Dogra, Taiuvi Shanna,
Etta Kalil, Mansi Sharma, Aeishesh Nijhawan,

Vikram Shanna, Mridul Suri, Nariender
Sachchar, Arvind Anund, Amitabh Raina.Mohit

Shanna, Pankush Verrna and Ashok Vcrrna, In

(Sangcet Natalt Akademi's Yuva Bismalla Khan

Award) Deepilra a.
.
'tika

Singh,Sajrzl adlr,GopiSharrua,
Bhau, Rythm Misher,

Asmu

Dramatic Arts. London) and Vikrarrl Shame
(lee Strasbcrg Theatre and Film Institute,

to the realization or its ultimate dream.

Gul

Natrarlg's Mult‘i-Am Complexis going to be the
ﬁrst of it's kind professionally managed cultural
space “here Arts. performing arts. traditional.
contributed immensely to the grouth of contemporary art promos. literary discourses.
Natrallg With 350 new plays/new musi- exhibitions, workshops, training युप्रा७जि३5 reguरुहा। events, Nam"; emerged as one of llrr mulses are going to happen at one place.
tile important cultural centers ol’ the country
Naming has set a target to oﬁer annual mlmdar
which made a ख्याती rtici
‘on in more than
ofthe events of this multi anscomplex where all
years. Currently NMX‘l‘ulg nlns ton ' अद्या। :- arts will happen at one place. Morning ll to
partrrlents which include ' Natrang Theatre evening ll. this centre will oﬂer dherse range of
Repertory Conlpany'. पृर्षद्वाद्वा"य Children wmg‘. public attractions Under one rool'onewill getto
'Natrang Ruml Theatre 'Nalrnllg Music rind so: world dag thuahe. musitzls, dams. an

(Nan'onul Scholarships). Among! others, sitar

Sirrgll, (Music) Suraj Ganjw (Lights) Ankush

Likhnotrrl (lights) Chander Shekhar (क्या)

his pmentations irl over so oountris of the rddio'onlo having Seven pass—outs or Nah'onal
world.
School of Drama and Eight Masters in
The accomplishments
ramatics, व्याख्या; proudly sent four for 195National theatre/cultural festilnls in last 33
In these last 33 glorious years of creatively International studirs whi
included liar-ish
exciting happenings, Natnng through the sellmuondon School orActing and Speech
Im eﬂ'orts of thousands of Natrang minionare Aeishesh Nijhawan (london lnternnlional
1८ brought the lax theatre to world spotlight School of performing Arts) Aaruslli Thnkur
and its highly acclaimed play: vibrated the globUniversity or leisler, UKa RoyalAcndcrrly or Dance arpenory. Naming Mega Events Wing'
ed the whole

qualitative growth and aLso fosters a harmorlious cream! environment to dadop, explore,
engage the communin of artiss. performers and literatuns. Nnrrong is श्याओ' demted

akur (National

Fellowship) Anil 1id<oo (National Fellowship)
Neeraj Kant (National Fellowship) Mohd

'Nntrarrg Sunday Theatre ' Nntnmg Theatre
Laboratory' 'Nalrnng Dix‘ulrlcntntion and

shuns, permanent displays pomying the rich
rulnlml [999- o! the state. This centre will haw

excluslvt- programmes {or chlldtrtll both in
क्या; of performanth and their partidpndon
opportunities. with three perfumle क्या
rwu studios. galleries. food court. mists usiunq', Noll-mg will make this an our 01 the

a,हैं‘
a

५८ a

‘?

esourcc
entrc' 'Natmng Extension
Manha tan, New York USA)
the 59'.15
RustinGermany, ulc,Singapore. shows by Natrang Inlast llnrry three rs, the Programmes Wing' and 'Natrlurg Scholarship
kzy. Hungary.Poland, and one and thus er.
runnmrn nunrberorprrn'ci tian is i
ll rognmma'. Through it's vnricd
tabliahed aglobally a
5
Net j Kalil, 111१८1८००, njeev mgrrlmlllus nnrl activities, Naming llns csl
'NA'I'RANG'. This organization has been hi
Gupta, Vi a Sharnla. Palrkaj sliarmo, I'Lshed its presence all over the state utJ8r ' an
instrumental in giving it new culnlral and inch- Sumcct Shllrlrla, Julli Singh, Sat Snlarbi, Surrsh currently is the only Non-gm'enlmentnl cultural
lectual identity to this dimnt purl of the coun—
Kunurr, vuny nor, , rrwon Vennn. Dimple initrnm'c mum luls perrurrnru ond pn-selltul

world unisth nrlrucnon which is bound to l»
आणा- l|l| ultimate luunsl attraction.
,’

