PRODUCTION

OF

BAWA

JITTO

It was in September 1985 while participating in the ongoing North Zone Theatre
Festival organised by Sangeet Natak Akaderni at Chandigarh, we decided to do 'Bawa
Jitto'. At that time we had gone with the play 'Kaun Nachaye Nach' (Hindi) in which
I had made an effort to use the local performing traditions. Though our effort was
highly appreciated but the evolving of a theatre idiom rooted in our culture was not
suitable for Hindi or in other words Hindi was not suitable for the kind of theatre
we were looking for.
Chandigarh Zonal Festival provided us an opportunity to interact with theatre
stalwarts like Nerni Chander Jain, JN Koushal, Mohan Maharishi, BR. Bhargava and
Moti Lal Kernmu. These interactions were highly inspiring and helpful in finalising
our theatre plans.
At Jammu the work on the script was started by Padamshree Prof. Ram Nath
Shastri after a lot of deliberation and discussions about the concept of the performance and my requirement of the dramatic text. l have no words to express my
gratitude for Prof. Shastri who was so kind to devote full time and worked day and
night to evolve the required script. Despite there being a generation gap he never
made me feel it and always inspired and worked as a guide and guru.
Natrang being a group of young enthusiasts of same age was the most disciplined and organised. All thanks to my colleagues like Prabodh Jamwal, Suresh
Sharma, Jugal Koul, Narinder Sachar, Sanjeev Luthra, Sanjeev Bakshi, Dr. Sudhanshu
Sharma and Maheep Gupta who never let me down in all my tough decisions. I
can cite one example of the rehearsals of 'Bawa Jitto'. We started with a team of
thirty five artists on stage and I decided for the timings of rehearsals to be 3 am
to 8 am and then again from 3 pm to 8 pm which was indeed very difficult but
they made it possible, especially the girls Narnrata Suri, Ritu Saini and Neelarn
Bharati who cooperated with us. I have a word of thanks for my friends. Sunit Kurnar,
Vinod Gandotra and Raj Rahi who would always come all the way from Reasi to
support my major endeavours.
There was no set format for the production and everything emerged during my
experiments at rehearsals. Being fortunate to have had a rich rural cultural back-

