ground I have lots of childhood impressions of performing traditions in my repository
which went a long way in mounting this production deeply rooted in our cultural ethos.
This aesthetic journey of mine inspired me to evolve not only a new drarnaturgy
but also new methodology for the actors training for my kind of theatre. My stress
was more on using the actors resources (both physical and vocal) their groupings,
visual body images to give a new expression to visual images which can speak
to the audience across language barriers.
The success of the production was not something which just happened to us
but we were sure of it when the tremendous effort was being made and the same
happened when it was first staged in Kurukshetra in the North Zone Theatre Festival
organised by Sangeet Natak Akaderni. In Kurukshetra the resultant work came in
for appreciation by the top theatre experts of the country and was selected for the
National Theatre Festival Delhi. There it won accolades and afterwards it was much
in demand in prestigious national festivals and we participated in festival after festival
and there was no looking back. In the process the production grew and lot of changes
were incorporated in the format after the production travelled almost all over the
c o u nt ry .

Over the years the production became an institute in itself for the training of
new actors and it went on despite many changes in the cast. New faces emerged
as accomplished actors while the senior ones got an outlet for their professional
pursuits. Few of them including Harish Khanna were selected for National School
of Drama and later for Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts London. Neelu Dog ra , the
first girl from J&K selected for NSD is presently working in the National School of
Drama Repertory Company. Narinder Sachar, Mridul Suri and Sanjeev Gupta were
selected for Masters Degree in Drarnatics Chandigarh. Few senior theatre artists
joined the production later included Vijay Bhatt, Suresh Kumar, Ajay Paul Singh and
Arvind Anand.
During this period we lost one of the seniormost artist and a guiding force

of the play, Mr Shiv Ram who had performed the role of Mehta Vir Singh in
over thirty five performances. We miss him for his splendid acting and guidance.

Without the support of Veteran journalist Suraj Saraf who is always a guiding
force for me and has been inspiring me throughout to take up such ventures, the

