Sunday Herald, July 17, 1988 5
py re .
This precipitated a hue and cry in the
region. The feudal lord and his
henchmen had to appease mass
resentment
and
escape
the
consequences of being responsible for
the death of an innocent Brahmin by
building a temple on the site. Ever since,
an annual fair is held there (called Jhiri
fair) wherein descendants of those
responsible for Jito's death, perform
Jatra (vigorous swaying of heads as
if possessed, to furious drum beats)
to expiate for the sin, of their ancestors
and save themselves from any
calamities. His name stands for
intrepidity, honesty and determination.

Bawa Jito with a plough. An open air performance of Bawa Jito in a

border area of Jammu

New theatre idiom
B y S u ra i S a ra f
THEY want to establish an Indian
theatre by encouraging exploration of
traditional folk and other indigenous
theatre forms and inspire young
directors to take up experimental
productions in these dramatic forms
rooted in the soil. Through a process
of cross-fertilisation with modern
serisibflites, this will help contemporary
theatre assimilate the heritage of the
past. Sangeet Natak Akademy points
out that over the last three years this
process has been going on by holding
zonal drama festivals followed by
national N atya Samarth (of the drama
judged as outstanding in the zonal
tests). While 60 plays had been
presented at the zonal level, 22 were
selected for Natya Samaroha in 1984
1985 and 1986.
These festivals brought to the stage
new productions, many of which were
notable successes, bold departures in
the quest for indigenous theatre idiom.
The Akadem i has particularly marked
four plays viz Chakravyuh, Pashu
Gayalri, Bawa Jito and Lakshapathi
Rajane Kathe.
Bawa Jito, has come in for high praise
both by critics and viewers for its

competent direction, innovations in
stage management, special effects and
diverse folk elements besides superb
roles by the personae dramatis. A
highly appealing historical anecdote
with lot of drama in it which has been
powerfully presented.
Bawa Jito has run to 25 shows in
Jammu, Delhi, Chandigarh and Shimla.
In Shim la's dram a fest only three months
back, noted stage celebrity Manohar
Singh warmly patted Balwant Thakur,
26-year young director of Bawa Jito,
and hailed the enacting of this play as
a significant contribution in the quest
for a national idiom. He added that this
was really an inspiration for others to
follow,
The story revolves around a
progressive farmer belonging to a
village in Jammu. About 500 years back
he waged a relentless struggle against
the excesses of the feudal lords of the
time and their henchmen. In the process
he was hounded out of his village. He
migrated along with is daughter (his
wife had died) and continued his
rebellious activities there, too. U ltim ately
he sacrificed himself for his rights and
his daughter also burnt herself on his

Balwant hails from a distant
mountainous pocket in Jammu region.
These distant niches in Jam m u are full
of local festivals wherein folk singing,
dancing, skits abound. Through
school, college and university his
interest in drawn grew and he started
participating in competitions, founding
his own Natrang Club. His tally of
prizes is, indeed, a long one. By this
time he had directed about 75 stage
shows for about two-dozen different
plays.
His colleagues speak of him as a hard
taskm aster who does not neglect even
the minutest detail and extracts the
very best from his cast. Moreover, he
has a highly innovative mind which
imbues his plays with welcome
features. Even the two bards through
whose singing the story is carried
forward, have been chosen and
prepared superbly and their sonorous
and melodious voice creates its own
haunting impact and has been perfectly
interwoven with the performance on

stage.
While Balwant has made liberal and
forceful use of the folk elements like
Kud and Gectru dances, his magnum
opus is the “physical theatre” in which
he employs his boys and girls as trees
and branches, swaying crops which
has been hailed as sheer poetry.
Balwant is deeply committed to
fighting ills and highlighting excesses
of exploiters of various hues in, society
and lamentable conditions of the
downtrodden. Within his limitations he
also boldly offers solutions to meet the
ills from which society suffers.

