D RAMA COM PETITION
Sangeet Natak Akademi has endeavoured to introduce
various incentives to promote the growth of Indian theatre, to
help the theatre movement gain deeper roots in the soil and
thereby accelerate its growth.
Some time ago, the Akademi instituted two prizes to be
given every year, for the best drama script and the best play
production, to encourage dramatic activity, in general, and the
writing and production of new plays, in particular.
The present Competition has been conﬁned to Hindi and
Tamil While Telugu and Bengali have been chosen for the next
year. The idea behind the Competition is to give impetus to
original play-writing and production so as to focus the need for
a live and dynamic theatre and create a healthy spirit of competition among the working groups.
Delhi and Madras have been chosen to be the venues of
the Competition for Hindi and Tamil respectively. Apart
from meeting the travelling expenses, providing the stage and
part of the rehearsal cost, the Akademi will give a cash prize of
Rs. 2,500 to the winning group.
The interest and enthusiasm evoked by the Competition
in Hindi and Tamil language areas, is very heartening and is a
sure index of growing tempo of theatre activity in the language
theatre. In the Play Production Competition, 42 Hindi groups
and 18 Tamil groups have offered to compete while in the Best
Play Competition, in Hindi 77 playwrights submitted 91
scripts and in Tamil 94 playwrights submitted 97 scripts.
In the present Production Competition, 9 Hindi plays are
being presented by groups from different parts of the country.
It is noteworthy that two theatre groups from non—Hindi-speaking
areas are presenting Hindi plays. In selection of the participating groups, made by the experts, standing of the groups
and choice of play have been taken into consideration.
The Play Competition lasts for just a little over a fortnight
during which plays will be presented, one on the each alternate
day.
On this occasion, the Sangeet Natak Akademi has pleasure
in conveying its heartiest greetings and good wishes to the
participating groups.
NIRMALA Josm

Secretary

