the pch
adya rangacharya is a well-k

wn kannada playwright an

the playwright aWard of the sangeet nata ‘ak

३ ‘

Sanskrit sChelar he won
suno janamejay, hindi

version of his kelu’ jan‘amejay, is a famous play. it has been
praised by discerning
critics bath for its contents and technique. ' in this play adya
rangacharya has made
moulded some

greek, sanskrit andfolk theatre into new o-nes._

३

conventions from the

’

_ suno janamejay is a play within a play. . on “the one» hand, there are the
sutradhara
" and the demago‘gue. on the other, there, are four other characters. as created
by 'the
sutradhara, they are an old man, a youth, ’ a young girl and a common man.
they
symbolize experience. enthusiasm desire and power to act,’ respectively.
but the-same
four, as created by the demagogue, are an office director, a clerk, ‘a girl typist
and a
peon these four characters. become alive on the stage when the audience, as
requested
’ by the sutradhara in the first act, move on in spirit to the stage leaving their bodies
behind
in the} auditoriurn.~

these characters within the play ,are showf‘r‘iL-«onthreelevels, (i)

If

use of some traditional conventions and has also

in

relation to time, (ii) in relation to one another and (iii) 'in relation to
immediate
surroundings. in relation to time, they are. just creatures, in relation to one another
they
are high or low, and in relation to their surroundings, they are good Or‘bad, रे the story
of '
these four, therefore becomes the जी story of the audience, the peOple;
I
thus they represent.
the demos. ‘ the playwright, as he himself has remarked in his book.
the indian theatre
has thus created “a new triangle (the three d’s.) of the dramatist, the demago
gue and the -

demos."

the sutradhara is a creative artist and thinker.

he is cool and calm. his

steps
.are measured and. gestures controlled._ in juxtaposition to him, the demagogue
is volatle and restless and is confused in his - thinking,
making the demagogue see the play within the play, » the sutradhara highlights What
the
demagogue has done to the demos how the, demOgogue_ has deprived them " of
their
“chetna’_' '- consciousness ८ and understanding —- by‘ incessantly bombarding them by‘his;

