______ 3५८….- .._

३ Doi‘iinsday
conspiracy
Watch Kaiki Koechlin take the stage in a threecharacter Caryl Churchill dystopian drama
that premieres later this week

Sheeba Ch ad ha
with Kalki
Koechlinas the
aduli Joarl

krmika.behrawala@mid daycom
WEARING a ruffle-sleeved nightgown
and two plaits. Kalki Koechiin, who plays
a young Joan wakes up in the middle of
the night to a sinister sound of someone
screaming. Her aunt. Harper (Sheeba
Chadha), dismisses it as an owl screech
and tucks her back into bed. However. it
isn't an owl and Joan’s life is never the
same again. not even 15 years later. when
she is married to Todd (Vivek Gomber).
Intrigued by the chilling puzzle? Then.
book your tickets for Far Away. aplay directed by Rehaan Engineer, which premieres in the city this Thursday
Presented by Little Productions in collaboration with Sitara Studio. the 60minute dysropian drama

is based

on

acclaimed British playwright Caryl
Churchill's eponymous play penned in
2000, wlucleeaves a surreal world edging towards a catastrophe, where everything in nature is at war and even the
closest are engulfed in distrust.
“Though शिष्ट play may come across as
not so relevant at the start, it becomes a
personal journey that the audience will
relate to. it’s not a random foreign script
that is being staged but astory that connects with the lndian political and ecolog‘
too," informs Nilthil
Hemrajani. who heads Sitara Studio,
The play will be New Delhirbased Engi~

K a1ki Ko echi in

Chadha with Koechlin as younger Joanat a rehearsal of Far Away
neer’s second Churchill adaptation. after

_

staging her ZOOQ-penned piece. Seven
Jewish Children. in the city a few years
ago. “We have not changed anything in

Who's Caryl Churchill?

Currently residing in London. the 78»
the original script nor adapted it to an inyear-old British playwright‘s ﬁrst play.
dian setting.” informs assistant director
Downstairs. was staged in 1958 and
Jyoti Dogra.
won an award at the Sunday Times
Chadha. who has acted in Seven Jewish
National Student Drama Festival.
Children and Hedda Gabler, tiiretterl by
Known for staging themes revolving
Engineer. says, “The script is a strong
around the abuse of power. sexual
piece of text. Though it starts in a living
politics and feminism. she has
room. which may not look so ominous.
penned acclaimed pieces like Light
you can feel a lowhum of danger through
the play and sense that something is not ‘ Shining in B tickingha rrish i re. Cloud 9.
Fen. Top Girls, Three More Sleepless
right. which metamorphoses into untillier
kind of danger by the climax. That travel
Nights. Serious Money (which won
is intriguing for every character." The play
the Laurence Olivier/BBCAward for
uses an intimate setting with Vintage
Best New Play).The Skrlker. Far Away,
Style
costumes designed
by lsha
A Number. and a new version 01
August Strindberg's A Dream Play
Her latest play. Drunk Enough To Say
. October 13 and 14 7 pm and 9 pm;
i Love You? premiered at the Royal
October 15 and 16. 5 pm. 7 pm and 9 pm
Court
Theatre in London. where she
" ३ Sitara Studio. KG Marg. oppositeTllalr
served
as Resident Dramatist in197-: /
Bhavan. Elphlnstone (W). ३ ' 500
and 1975.
३
. ५ > ५ . I www.msidenln

I

