हिन्दी नाट्यक्षेत्र में अनामिका

अनामिका : प्रेस की दृष्टि में

का "शुतुरमुर्ग"
प्रस्तुति है ।

एक

स्मरणीय

-अमृता कलकत्ता.

Among the few Hindi Theatrical Groups in Calcutta,
Anamika is the most enterprising. It owes its existence
and success here and in Delhi to the energy and inspiration
of some individuals who have endowed it with the character
and policy which sets it apart from the general run of dramatic groups.
—THE S'I‘A'I‘ESMAN, Calcutta.

It (Anamika’s Chhapte—Chhapte) was the ﬁrst and the most
convincing experiment with the arena theatre in Calcutta—and
probably in the whole ofIndia—ignoring a feable attempt by
some foreigners in Delhi.

विस्मित कर दिया अनामिका के
"एवं

इन्द्रजित" ने ।

प्रयोगनैपुयय,

अभिनय, दृज्यसज्जा-य-सब कुछ में
जैसे विस्मय और विस्मय!

ऐसी

सुरुटु नाट्यप्रस्तुति बंगाल की किसी
भी नाटूयसंस्था के लिए ईज्यों की
वस्तु है ।
……आनन्दबाजार पत्रिका, कल्फत्ता.

—AMRI'I‘A BAZAR PA'I‘RIKA,

‘Shuturmurg’ is indeed something totally different from
the usual run of Hindi Theatre. . . . an interesting experiment
and certainly well worth of visit.

इधर जितने भी नाटक. . . प्रस्तुत
किये गये, उनमें यह (एवं इन्द्रजित्)
कीर्तिमान सफलता है-

—-INDIAN EXPRESS.

……विश्वमित्र, कलकत्ता.
The presentation of the drama (Adhey Adhurey) . . . . soared
to a new height of excellence. . . . The Anamika team gave a
resounding performance. . . . They kept up an even tenor of
attitudes and seldom exaggerated. . . . . It would be diﬂicult to tell them (players) apart in point of merit; they seemed
indivisibly one compact human block.
—-HINDUS'I'AN

STANDARD.

"एवं ।इन्द्रजित्" जैसे बौद्धिक
कलात्मक नाटक के अनुरूप गति और
उसकी लयात्मकता को प्रस्तुतीकरण

As long as Anamika is there, Hindi plays will be produced
in Calcutta with care and a great deal of regard for their
literary values. . . . Its presentation of Mohan Rakesh’s ‘Laharon
Ke Rajhansa’.. . . .was a brave eﬂ'ort.

की शैली में उभार पाना एक चुनौती
है और उस चुनौती को बडे वि३वास
के साथ स्थामानन्द ने निभाया है है

r

I‘HE S'I‘A'I‘ESMAN, Calcutta.
१७

"धर्मयुक्त बम्बई.

