lN PASSING
. “Dakshinee”,—-a South Delhi Cultural and Education
° '
'
Bengali reSidents of South Delhi has fortunately assumed a place:‘1 olfszﬁig
elgge ii: iii:
cultural and educational ﬁeld. Growing out of amorphourness and uncerta
in beginning
it has Steadfastly grown into stature and has succeded in enlistino the
suppdrt and
“response ’of the people, without which nothing escalates into shape and
size. A
combine to exrst

should have strength and sobriety.

The stakes, though high are

worth strrvmg,—~and we are trying to scale-up to that optimum position
.
’
In the recent past. “Dakshinee” successfully sta ed full len th Ben ali
dlramas~one at A. I. 1., A. C. S. Hall (“Labanakta”) in Julyg, 1964, whiih was gaccalmed to be a. well—knit production by all the leading Newspapers in the Capital,
and
tlie other at LaJpat Bhawan Auditorium (Bhanga-Gara Khela) in April, 1965. Both
t ‘3 dramas; we are happy to note earned appreciation in a big way. In passing, it may
be mentioned, that the sale-proceeds from these shows are being utilised to run
a

School
which has
alread been established a bou t eight
'
० the name of
“Vivekananda
Vidyapmbl'".
months ago under
.

Emboldened by the

acmeVed,

magniﬁcent response of the people and the success

Dakshinee is now sponsoring an “One-Act” Drama Competition to be

Staged at Lajpat Bhawan Auditorium from 9th to 13th May, 1965. The number of
competitors is ﬁfteen.

The ready and willing participation of the various dramatic

clubs in the Competition is a deﬁnite indication of the cultural index and needs of the
people which “Dakshinee” humbly propose to serve and promote for the furtherance
of the cultural activities of the Bengalis of Delhi in general and of South Delhi in
particular.
' we are extremely grateful to the Management of the Lajpat Bhawan for

allowmg this competition to be staged at its auditorium and to the participating clubs
but for whose active co—operation, the venture would have fallen through.
_
We feel extremely indebted to Shri J. D. Tytler who has kindly agreed to
inaugurate the competition and also to Shri J. C. Mukherji who has kindly consented
to give away the prizes. We also feel highly obliged to Sarvashri N. C. Jain, Benoy

Roy, S.K. Mukherjee, Praf'ulla Kumar Mukherj i and P. K. Basu who have kindly agreed
to spare their valuable time to act as Judges for the Competition.
Our special sense of gratitude and appreciation are also due to those gentlemen
who have very graciously volunteered to donate the Running TROPHIES for the
One-Act Competition. They are :
( 1)
(2)

Shri Bireshwar Banerjee, D-93, Defence Colony, New Delhi.
Shri Pranab Kumar Banerjee, A-89, South Extn. Pt—II, New Delhi.

(3)

Shri Saktish Ray, 3, West Patel Nagar, New Delhi.

(4)
(5)

Dr. S. N. Roy & Mrs. Banee Roy, B-35, Nizainuddin
Shri D. K. Home, l l, Mandir Lane, New Delhi.

West, New Delhi.

(6) Shri Nani Roy, 1992, Katra Lachhu Singh, H.C. Sen Rd., Fountain, Delhi.
Our thanks are also due to those who have ungrudgingly helped the idea to
take shape and the numerous Donors, Patrons and Advertisers who have extended
their helping hand to organise this Competition as also to bring out this Sovenir.
Bande Matararn.

छु

_
NEW DELHI,

7th May, 1965

हैं

(Ramani Mohan Samajdar)
Cultural Secretary

DAKSHTNEE

