.
8. .Two. small tables, four chairs, one bench, one tea-poy and two takathposh
Will be prov1ded If required at a nominal charge of Rs. 21- which shall be paid to
the General Secretary in advance.

9.

The competiting group shall be responsible for any damage or loss

caused ‘0 the Property supplied by the organisers and the ﬁxtures on the stage etc.
10. The COStUmeS, make-up, production requisites, refreshment etc. shall
be arranged by the competing group and the expenses for the same met by it.

11.

Entry to the auditorium shall be regulated and controlled by the organi-

sers and no member of a participating group shall be entitled to free access in the
auditorium.

12. The Management shall appoint a panel of judges of not less than three
persons, whose judgement shall be ﬁnal.
.
13. No special prize or reward shall be declared or given by the participating
units or anybody else, except with the express permission of the organisers.
14.

There shall be the following prizes ;—

(a )

Best Production

(b)

2nd Best Production

(C)

Best Actor

(d)

2nd Best Actor

(e)

Best Actress
Best Director

(f)
(h)

2nd Best Actress
Best Script by a local writer.

(g)
15.

No artiste will be allowed to take part in more than one play staged in

the competition, unless it is for the same group.

16. The Management reserves the right to refuse to accept any entry for the
competition or permit a play ‘to be staged even after an entry has been accepted.
'
No reasons shall be assigned for such action.

l7. No play staged in any competition organised in Delhi/New Delhi in the
previous calendar year will be accepted for entry in the competition.

group/play for
18. Normally 15 minutes will be allowed to each participating
arranging stage sets, properties, lighting etc.
pating group
19. A “Green Room” will be placed at the disposal of the partici
each evening, half an—hour before the commencement of the play.

Room” and the stage
20. Each participating group will vacate the “Green
immediately after the performance is over. .

