Scintillating performances.
in Trajan Womtn:

O)

UNDER THli direction of Ms Veda Rakesh who also played the
role of Heczubah. the play, "I‘roy ki Auratein' held the audience
spellbound throughout the evening. The play, originally written
by Euripides and later adapted by Jean Paul Sartre. tells the tale
of sorrow. pain and anger experienced by the Trojan women after they were defeated by the Greeks.
The play began with the tale of Odyssey. The ocean depicted
by women in starched blue cloaks was not up to the mark. Soon
after. however, the play took off and ended with a fantastic climax. The theme was well revealed by the ‘chorus' (group of dejected and widowed Trojan women). in fact. it was this group and
the Queen of Troy who together carried the play ahead to a perf’ect ending. The ‘chorus' included Ila Kapoor. Rakesh Sharma,
'Raju l’andey. Usha Singh, Shalini and Faizal.
All through the play the psyche of'l'rojan women which included
Helen was well revealed. Helen renowned for her beauty surrendered to Paris who had come as a guest to her husband.
Menalaus' palace. Soon war was waged on Paris after he ﬂed with
Helen. This war carried on for 10 long years. Just at the point
when the Trojans believed they had won the war. the famous wooden horse that had carted the Greek soldiers. unleashed anarchy
and destruction on their city.
,
The soldiers took the city by surprise at night and reduced it
to ashes. On one hand there were widowed women who were ready
to sacriﬁce their lives instead of succumbing to the lust of the
lioman soldiers. On the other. Helen was least remorsef'ul of her
deeds. Her_ husband mloolgin acthe Rathetjc state of the women

of Troy, in‘t'onsultatioﬂ Wit them. decided to give the ‘most suit-- r
able punishment to his wife.
Bubbling with conﬁdence towards the end of the play, Helen
(enacted by Sbalini Mathur). managed to charm her husband.
Angry at the man's weakness and woman's lack of repentance.
Heczubah ﬁnally worships Nature to set ﬁre to the ship that car-

ried both Helen and Menelaus. The mu5ic directed by Ravi Nagar
helped in creating the right atmosphere. Both the clothes and light— A scene from the play Trojan Women being staged at the Rai Umanath Bali auditorium
ing heightened the dramatic situations.

J

