NATYA SAMAROH ’85

January 12
VELLIYAZHCHA (in Malayalam)
Produced by: Natya Grrham, Trivandrurn
Written and Directed by: R. Narendra Pra'sad

SYNOPSIS
Velliyazhcha _ (which means Friday) is based on a popular myth that has
prevailed in some parts of Kerala about the devil who impersonated a priest and
worked in a village church. The play seeks to develop its consequences on the
spiritual and material life of the parish. The spectator is carried through various
phases of Kerala history from the time of slavery and tribal life to the consumer
culture of our time. The main character is the devil-priest. A number of characters
from various strata of life come under his inﬂuence. The story takes a turn as the
devil-priest hears an oracle prophecy the birth of a child who will destroy him one

day. The mythical motifs of Krishna and Jesus Christ are woven into the structure of
the play. The tribal woman carrying her eighth child tries to escape the clutches of
the devil who has already killed every male child born in the parish. Nevertheless, an

organised force of young men combine against the prominent people who have
succumbed to the devil-priest. Thevan, who is killed by the proud and the powerful,
emerges as the living principle' of human energy that fights the devil.

DIRECTOR’S NOTE
The play is in the form of a fable and is written in popular verse and stylized
prose. In the production, the atmosphere of fable is created by means of elements of
puppet theatre. Along with ‘Pava Koothu’, elements from indigenous performing
arts like ‘Padayani’, ‘Porattu’, ‘Chavittu Natakam’, ‘Kathakali’, etc. are discreetly
used. Voice patterns, foot work, rhythms and melodies from various other forms
have also inﬂuenced the structure of the production. Songs, paintings and stage
materials of puppet theatre are sought to be fused to the central theme and its
evolution.

CAST AND CREDITS
Puthanachan: M.K. Gopalakrishnan; Andipilla: Allyar; Varkey: M.R. Gopakumar;
Tharan: Murali; Pavakalikaran: Rajendran, Three Wise Men: Sasidharan Nair,
Sreekumar ,& Bal Payyannoor; Chellan: Gopi; Achan: Janardhanan; Chempan
Mudi: Haridas; Daivadoothan: T. P. Raveendran; Sayipu: Vijayakumara Vanna;
Kili: VAnwar; Mariamrna: Leela Paniker; Thevi: Gin'ja; Arnrnachi: Mauelikara
Ponnamma. ३

Stage Design: T.P. Raueendran, Stage Execution: Mohandas & S. Balagopal;
Costumes: Sasi Poojappura; Lighting: A.E. Ashraf, K. Jayakumar; Harrnoniurn: S.
Raghu; " Percussion: Shanawaz ;‘ "Music: Kaithpram Damodaran Namboodiri;

Choreography: Leela Paniker & R-s‘Narendra Prasad; Paintings: D. 8. Lawrence;
Directorial Assistance: K. Radhakrish'nan.

NARENDRA PRASAD (b. 1955)

, MA. in English from Kerala University. He has published a novel, several books
of literary criticism and a gbod number of short and full length plays. He received

AdVancedeeraining in Theatre from the School of Drama of the Calicut University.
He won several awards for his plays-both for the text and for the production. He has
been actively working in Malayalam theatre for about a decade now. The ten play
directed by him include Waiting for Godot and 200 Story.

