FOR THE DISCERNING CINE-GOERS
DARINCvé PRODUCTS OF THE NEW CINEMA
Compelling tale lovingly told.

PH I R BHI

Sinha, a former Delhi T. V.

SUNDAY STANDARD.

This film produced and directed by Shivendra
Producer,

has

highly

been

praised by

THE

According to this leading newspaper, “In many ways,

“PHIR BHI” may well be considered a landmark in Hindi film making in terms
of social awareness, intensity and unpretentiousness.

Of special interest is Sinha‘s

ﬂair for understatement, delicacy and subtlty and his almost lyrical treatment of
sexual relationship.

In human and emotional relationships he almost succeeds in

investing situations and characters with Chekovian touch... In a finely knit screenplay, the film is profusely lit with inspired use of cinematic language in terms of
speech, silence, rhythm, visuals and sound montage.

EK A DHUR I
KAH ANI

All in all, PHIR BHI is a

film worth more than one visit.”
Produced by Arun Kaul and directed by one of leading exponents of THE NEW

CINEMA, MRIN AL SEN.

The Times of India has pronounced it to be “A mature

film which has evolved its own methodology to depict reality. .Mrinal Sen here
explores the dimensions of despair with the intensity of Ionesco and in depicting
the withering of sensitibity solzhenitsyn”. The Times of India have concluded
this film to be a “MIGHTY SAGA”

Badnan B £1.51: 1

Produced and directed by Prem Kapur, an Off-beat film, a winner of six awards,
characterised by the noted film critic, Bikram Singh, “as a welcome step forwarb
in the direction of new cinema” in the Times of India.

'1‘ri sa.n dh ya.

Meaning twilight, produced and directed by Raj Marbros.

Waheeda Rehman gives

a touching portrayal of a down-to-the-earth woman whose husband dies leaving
her young to care for his younger brother, a:rough and irresponsible rural character, developing paralysis.

And many more in the months to come.
Hoping that YOU, THE CRITIC of the traditiornl Hindi films,will come 'forward to championing and patronising the daring, enterprising, new film makers.

WITH

COMPLIMENTS

"U" P K .A. R
.

22

FROM:

M O V I E S

H. 0.

B. 0.

25, Madhya Marg, Sector 7-C,
C H A N D I G AR H .
(Telephone No. 2 5 6 7 0 & 2 9 0 3 0

Central Mills Compound,
Old Railway Road, Jullundur City.

'

