Centres
TRAINING CENTRES: During the year under review, the DCT training
functioned in the following schools of Delhi:-

[‘3

Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market

93

Laxman Public School

८3३

Lady Irwin School Defence Colony

.0"

1. Delhi Public School, Mathura Road

Saket Centre

accompanist and
Our experienced choregraphers, Music Director, Tabla

children received
teachers conducted the Training Centre in these schools. The
training in dance, drama, music, ballet and theatre.

per month as fee
The trainees are charged Rs. 5/— for admission and Rs. 25/for ten months of the year.

the Schools where
Ten Converters and two peons, nominated by the heads of
o-day work of the
day-t
our training centres are located helped in the regular
training centres and collected fees from the students.
Sangeet natak Akaderni
FINANCE: During the year, the DCT received from
chairman of the Akaderni to
a grant of Rs. 12,000. We have appealed to the

a special grant of Rs.
increase our annual grant to Rs. 20,000/- We also received
Development.
rce
Resou
40,000 from Dept. of Culture, Ministry of Human
Balance Sheet for the
The audited statement of income & expenditure and
Shekhon & Co. gives
year (994-96 prepared by our Chartered Accountant, M/s
a clear picture of our financial position.
3 Day Annual Festival
ANNUAL FESTIVAL: During the year, the DCT, held a
16, 17, 18 Feb. 1995. The
at the Mavalankar Auditorium, Rafi Marg, New Delhi on
l children and visitors
Festival Show was a great success, large number of Schoo
s daily in the morning and
witnessed the Festival shows. There were two show
en and Rs. 5/- for adults. A
evening. The rate of tickets were Rs. 5/- for childr
souvenir was brought out on the occasion.

part in the Festival
The DCT training centres and 8 Schools of Delhi took
ing plays, ballets
includ
programme, the Three Day festival consisted of 22 items
the festival programme.
and chorus songs. About 2000 School Children took part in
ographers, Shri Harish
Our experienced Director, Smt. Rekha Jain and Chore
Shri Anup Kurnar, Smt. Sonali
Verma, Km. Poonam Verma, Smt. Bandana Roy,

Nilarn Jha, Smt. Roma
Sarkar, Srnt Rital Bose, Shri Subhankar Biswas, Smt.
and Sanjay Malhotra
Bhattacharaya Smt. Rital Mukherjee, Ms. Deepika Bose
helped in making Festival a success.

