Credits:
Concept and Artistic Direction

:

Deejay Arriola

libretto

:

Malou Tiangco, Deejay Arriola

Music

:

CeejayArrioIa

Music Arrangement and Direction

:

Gauss Dbenza

Choreography

:

Agnes Iocsin

Technical Management

:

Malou Tiangco

lights Design

:

Kaikai Ianranilao

Videography

:

Ceejay Arriola

Artistic Consultants

:

Iyrrdee Prieto, Maribel legarda

Production Managerrrent

:

Aileen Eermalino

Technical Stall

:

Maribel Iegarda, Iyndee Prieto

The Group:
Mebuyan PeaceProject, Inc. (MPP)

7 lo I T JAN
2003

MPP is an all-women arts group composed of I 6 music and theatre artists and cultural

workers coming from Mindanao's best music and theatre companies: Sining llambayoka
Ensemble, Kaliwat Theatre Collective, Kathara Theatre Collective, Sining Kabpapagariya,

Kariala Etniko Music Ensemble, Kulturang Atin Foundation. Inc. and Seventh Heaven.
The organization is a little more than one year old, having been organized in May,
2991 although its members each have had 8-29 years experience in music, theatre.
and/or cultural development work. MPP is basically a group of consultative nature,
working on per project basis with its members more active in their respective mother
companies. The members come together occasionally when there are creative projects
specifically designed for women and children.

Mebuyan Peace Project traces its roots to the very first all-women's theatre Production
in the Philippines in 1993, which involved many MPP members. Entitled "Dva," the
trilogy was produced by the women of Kaliwat Theatre Collective. From the artistic
directors to playwrights to performers to the technical crew, all those involved were
women. It was the first attempt by any theatre group in the country at an all-women
production. The project's purpose was to assert women's capabilities and strength in

theatre work and to tell women's stories from the perspective of women.
In I 995, the women of Kaliwat gave birth to Malitan Project, the women's desk in
the organization headed by Ma. Cecilia "Ceejay" Arriola. Malitan Project organized
the Women Circle involving all the artists involved in ”Dva" and some I 5 other women

C

OT‘U S

