l
,. . , x

HEA l l H l | PS

Mumbalerror r24

t’tnrkpuasaro IIClt m mm and ८ untnlu wry

Lunar inn is packed with AHA, and is an as

nigh inmlrtv [utilt‘in l '1५७० क्या' will route»

lutillstted anti-blemish agent It helps to retluce skin pigmentation

rmniunoru twp Irurrgl‘r runny, .m.»

FRIDAV. MAY 10. 2016
l

rm "uric-errtra c knot imcsgroup ,com

A visitto the theatre will not only ﬁreyour kid’s artistic impulse, but will also encourage them to
express their emotions. Here’s everything that you need to know about theatre for children
, Priya Chaphekar
_ mirrorleerilrackgirrnesgroupcorn

masterclass on early years'
theatre tw Roberto Frahetti
of La Baracca, Bologna, ltaly,
V was held in Mumbai recent‘. Liy and attended by an amalgam of theatre practitioners, pre»
school teachers and educators.
Organised by ASSITEJ lndra, an inter»
national theatre networkof theatre
for children and young people, the
workshop was conducted in collaboration with Gillo Theatre Repertory, a
city-basedorganisation working
exclusively for children and young
people. “The masterclass was more
about living the experience and sharing creative ideas rather than a hard
core skill-building training. Every artist is different and so is his senseof
aesthetics. There’s no rulebook for art,
and theatre is an art," says Roberto.

Wl i it i 3 '2‘; 0 ts हैंii i D F ii AB Elll ?
A theatre artist. rmmhu and teacher, Roberto is the creative head of la
Baracca — Testony kagazzl in the City
of Bologna, ltaly He has been working in the ﬁeld of theatre for children

workshops, Roberto emphasises the
need to subtly win the trust of the
young. “Everyone wants to touch the
faceof achild sitting in a pram, and
that can beextremely annoying for
him or her Instead, one needs to "
observe the child arid build trust
through the eyes," he adds.

WATCH F0 R RESPONSES

approaches in this ﬁeld have proved
that it is possible to produce and present dramaticwork based on literary
texts even for the young.

3 P Ell KlN G ill Ri)U GH
‘2‘ il E EYE 3
It‘s easy to corrununicate witha preschooler, but how do you connect

with atoddler who can barely walk?
Robeno strongly believes that our
eyes speak our minds. They are an
ideal wayto establish astrong relationship, even though it may be a
temporaryone. “The way weuse our
eyes as actors is vital, especially before
an audience ofvery young children, "
he afﬁrms.in his

;_‘ the way we use our eyes as actors

and early years for the past 30 years.
Roberto's theatre has created a ltub for
tiny tots from nursery schools, involv"mg parents, teachers and theatre pro»
fessionals from all over the world. His
artistic experiments and avant-garde
m
A.- आँ= ५८८-_
.
.\
. .rrurnrluaunrror. ६ rv r l I.
.-१
7: an: . r

A rich performance certainly evokes
a gamut of emotions, but it must be
noted that the responses are subiecﬁve. “During the three-day masterclass, we watched a lotof performances by Roberto. These videos
documented the reactions ofchildren during the show to understand
what worked forthem and what
didn’t, During their initial days.
Roberto and his team limited their
performance to 10 minutes given
their short attention span. iiowever
today, they can engage a group of
toddler for as longas 45 minutes.
That's truly incredible," lauds Choiti
Ghosh, object theatre artist and creative director of ‘itam Arts Trust.
While a play may or may not trigger something within the child, it's a
good idea to pick up Cues by observ»
ing the child’s facial expression.

is vital, especially before an audience
of very young children
m . a

“ Different idds react differently. Some
may fear the blackout at the beginningof a play, some may be
)) PAG E 25

—
T0430 LIST FOR EDUCATORS
displeased with a loud voice, and
many others may not be too fond
of the usa- ol a mask. While one
needs to figure their way out as an
educator, it’s important to make
these little onesfeel at ease. "their
level of comfort is directly propor—
tional to their ability of reception,"
reveals Roberto.

हैं

n Introduce Iluv warm upMMtlesfortlialtltis
~‘
to Maltam to Beautyyour child's
fears and«rims: thorn.
is You need mtalways talk In a
अश्या vii-nun: Be श्या.
in Try and क्याwith tile dilidron and learn from

l liili THE Fthlil 'i‘fii’ll.‘

essentially this team spirit that
enhances their social interaction
and sharpenstheir interpersonal
skills,” shares Shaili Sathyu, artistic
director, Gillo "theatre Repertory
and executive committee member,
ASSi'iFJ 1ndi a.

Clndercllas and Snow Whites, It's a
good idea to bounce back on them
provided the fairytale is perceived
through many lenses, and
Cinderella Is more than |ust a poor
girl who finds a rich boy.

session, the child’s locus is more
on their mother person who‘s reading out a story ratlu-r than the
book; canoons art- tun, but the
child isn't in the same space as the
character. A theatre, on the other
hand, is an experience in which

everyday things like a ball or a

bin AH EXPERIENCE,
N07 AH lPAD

the children are breathing in the

tioners is parental pressure. “Our

same space as the actors, they can

bucket of water," suggests Prema
Ilagaria, experience designer and

'lhe unhealthy consumption attern of adults in the past decade

very well walk up to them, touch
the props, ” stresses l’rerna.

workshops tours on impmvlng the
child’s motor skills management,
attention span and listening skills.
ealso work a lotwith body move
ments, voice and expression. The
loumey, however, is gradual as well

children how do they respond to

loundcrof Mannmela.
Vuu may even pick themes and
t r rI i r n s i rrgra l ned l ri the 1mil an Cul-

ltirt- "india has a vibrant culture
and «r rrt h lr-gzuy of t'xt‘t'pllonal stor
rytrlltng | "स्था" iolitaIt-s can
be very

well triodI-rrliwd to appeal to the
31 rl~r|n||lv Hi the ll‘ad generation,"
ह्यात्मा . rlrrl r iit'trm Mrhmtra, found»
.111;हू1>11।णा1।,आणा 11.1६4'८1111८11113'

"७1,८1५".iliwnririi it's about tirm- we look
'५ ‘ tltr

tvmrasv land at

has led to a significant increase in

kidsbeing addicted to digital devlc~
es, so much \n that even a toddler
knows to swipe right, Although
t hildren lrnblhe knowledge on

these devices the point in question
is, do they really need to learn
what they’re learning? “Between
the agm one in four, children need

to ltt‘ made aware oi their senses,

they nl‘t'tl m m exposedto a colourful world that isn't there on
tin-it il’ad You see, In a \Iorytt-Iiing

Moreover, theatre Is also a collec-

tive experience. it gives children an
opportunity for radial activity and
fosters a Sense of belonging to a
community. "You may read out storte-s to teach Inmnlngfu' values, but

DON’T HAVE UNREALISTIC
EXPECTATIONS

as subiectlve. Most parents want

at balwadlr, cm hes and playgroups
also works lx‘lter as kids here are
already familiar with each other It ’s

a learning,” she highlights.

ment for tin- child to apply what he
or she has learnt A theatrical experiencc by experienced pradltinncrs

६
।

According to Chetna, the biggest
challenge faced by theatre practi-

immediateresults. Aspiration is one
thing, but what‘s worse is that they
also get competitive, This is one rea~
son why we always have an orlcnta~
t ion session with patents or teach»
ers before we begin with our workshops. it‘s important that theatre is
treated as an experience ratherthan

you also need to create an environ-

,
’
t‘
l
l
l

/

‘ #0" ~— -कां५ ,दृ y चि

La Baracca’s acts for children
between ages one and four include
And then... they/am, a story that
combines real experiences with
imagination, 17kttak, an adventur»
ous tale of Piccololorso, a little bear
who is waiting for his little sister to
be born, and The Balloon Seller,
which revolves around balloons
and answers some lundamcntal
questions of hurnanlty such as
'where do balloons go when they
fly away? And why do they fly
away?’, “The easiest way to choose a
theme is to observe the lifestyleof

i.
l
i

L

