Art of being
Gaﬂonde
0 measure ol V S Gaitonde’ssuccess can
N exceed the imagecredits of hispaintings
reproduced in the recently released
Sonata 0] Solitude ( Bodhnna. १5,500) that catalogue hissuccess as lntiia‘s most sought aﬂerand
expensiveartist at international auctions Christie's
and Sotheby's. A Guggenheim retrospective,
works at Museum of Modern Art in New York.
Jehangir Nicholson Art Foundation and Tata
institute of Fundamental Research in Murnbal.
National Gallery ol’Modern Art and Kiran Nadar
Museum oi Art in New Delhi, and in the collections of Kavita Singh. Gayatrl and Priyarn Jhaveri.
thc Chowdhury family in Vienna and Mumbal
and several other unnamed collectorsare arecord
ofhis sure climb to fame.
which is why a lack of boois on Gaitonde—
Gai to hisfriends — has been disappointingand
mystifying,an anornaiy the first ofthreevolumes
in the Sonata seriesaims to rectify. American art
critic G RogerDenson refers to renewed interest
in Gaitonde’swork from the point of"qualitative
justice", an "overdtie but accurate acknowledgement” ofhis “professed exaltation ofrnodernist
non—objective qualities". That taskis ielt to Meera
Menezes tocarry through in this volume(theother two. written by RoshanShahani and Narendra
Dengle. and Roger Denson. on his practice.
await publication).
'S

है
दै
‘Q
३
ठे

। , ..दृ
,ड्ड
घ,
हैं:
हुँ

V SGaitonde was regarded asone oflndh's प
foremostabstract painters

Menezes confesses thatwriting the book was
“akin to puttingthe pieces of a gigantic iigsaw
puzzletogether"given the paucityofinforrnation:
"Gaitonde did not feel it incumbent upon himself
tobe moreaccessible.” Indeed, theirpaths erased
but once. whenMeneoes interviewedhim forAn
Indiamagazine. that occasionalsoproviding the
ﬁrstinstance when shesawhis work in the original. While she makes much of her memory of
thatinterview. Menezeshad her task cut out for
her. Much ofthe information about his early life
is culled from Kishori Dds. Gaitonde's much
younger sister. andbecomes recollective. She also
interviewed his peers. the costume designer
Bhanu Athaiyawho was a studentat SirJJSchool
ofArr, artists Krishen Khanna. Akbar Padamsee.
Laxman Shrestha, Nallnl Malanl. Pmbhakar
Kolre, Ram Kumar and dancer Sharon Lowen.
and quotes extensively fromcritics‘ writing.This
exhaustive biographical material. rare pictures
and equally rare catalogues should provide at
least some fresh fodderfor hisaﬁcionados.
Gaitonde’s father. Santu. was prescientthat
“ the life of: painter was a life ofpenury".in the
५ material collated for the volume are photographs ofthe artist in an unkempt studio-cumbedsit strungwith Cobwebs and speaking ofneg—
iigence. Though his paintings command a
fortune. Gaitonde's own life seemed to have
becomeparti cu lariywretched followingan accl dent from when on his reticence become
famously reclusive — at least till he shifted to

Gu rgaon to live with Marnra Saran. h is close
friend. companion and confidante.
The book necessarily covers ground over
Gultonrle‘smodateship ofthe1१च७जी४ट Artms‘
Group.the fruitful Bhuiabhal DaniInstitute years,
and Gaitonde'saward ofthe Rockefeller ftmd fellowship, his interest in colour field painting. one
ofthe streams ofabstractexpressionism (the other being action painting). whichwas allthe rage in
New York. Mcne’Les's interest is more the person.
less hisart. and that tapestry provides richfodder.
even though sortiething remain unexplained:
(or Instance.cfhls move toDelhi in the early19705.
Menezcs writes: "Gallonde announced hisdecision tohis familyand told them that hewouid prr
i'er l f they never got in touch with him or tried to
meethim again" without explaininng reason for
such peevishness. Some other material - an
exchange oflcrters between Krishen Khannaand
Ram. for instance — seems to have been repro
duccd in original and transcriptpurely to bulk up
the book. but who knowswhat fodder theymight
yet provide a futureresearcher.
KLtIIor: प्राणा। l:a Dailrllbaud wilt-rand आशाओं/८
भिक्षा' VIN-r ampt‘nonalanddnnor rtﬂm thong/1h:

mgaurmmm rvlrlrwlrlrlr hmwodamr

i

