Introduction

Rabindranath Tagore:
I 25th Birth Anniversary
Celebrations by
Sangeet Natak Akademi
With Rabindra Natyotsava — a nine—
day festival of plays and dance-dramas
— Sangeet Natak Akademi concludes a
sequence of programmes that began in
May '86 marking the 125th birth

anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore.
The festival features twelve specially

commissioned productions in different
languages and dance styles — an all-

lndia response of directors and
choreographers to the varied work of
Tagore. Unlike other Tagore
retrospectives the festival offers not
his plays and dance-dramas alone. but
also theatrical interpretations of his
poetry and fiction.
The programme represents directors
of wide variety and achievement.
Sombhu Mitra. the doyen of Indian
theatre, supervises the production of
Raja on the inaugural day. offering his
work in a national forum after a long
spell of time. Raja is recreated in a
Manipuri milieu by Lokendra Arambam.
a director of deep social concerns.
Sulabha Deshpande, long associated
with children's theatre. presents DakGhar in Marathi while B Jayashree
offers Yakshanagar‘i — a Kannada
version of Raktakarabi. Shyamanand
Jalan brings us Kshudhita Pashan in
Hindi. a theatrical rendering of the
well—known story.

Noted choreographers in diverse
styles feature in the festival. Narendra
Sharma and Mrinalini Sarabhai present
interpretations of a well-known poem:
Where the mind Is without fear. . .
Manjusri Chaki—Sircar offers a woman's
view of Chanda/ika. while Chitrangada
is cast in Kathakali mould by Sadanam
Balakrishnan. Guru Kelucharan
Mahapatra interprets Bhanusingher
Padaha/i in 0dissi. and Padma

Subrahmanyam presents an allegory of
poems from Gitary’a/i.

All groups featured in Rabindra
Natyotsava receive a production
subsidy of Rs 25.000 in addition to
fees for performances in the festival.
This is made possible by a special grant
from the Department of Culture,
Government of India. incentives are
offered for shows in cities where each
group is based.
Earlier. in the course of the year-long
celebrations of Tagore’s anniversary.
Sangeet Natak Akademi presented
Bhakt'i AurSangeet — a festival of
devotional music — in Delhi. Held in
September 1986. this was the ﬁrst
major exposition of lndian musical
traditions inspired by devotional
poetry. lts concern was the snug lyric
of devotion in our musical heritage —
folk. classical. sacred and secular.
A small exhibition in the foyer of the
auditorium recaptures some of the
major programmes of the Akademi
during Tagore's centenary celebrations
in 1961. On display are photographs of
performances held over a month of
festivities. publications brought out to
mark the occasion. and other
memorabilia. There are rare
photographs of Tagore on stage in
different roles. pictures of notable
productions of former years.

Our efforts in the current
celebrations have been a stimulating
exercise and pleasurable too. Those to
whom we address ourselves — we
trust — share our pleasure in this
renewed encounter with Tagore. We
pay our tributes to the memory of the

poet. whose role in the resurgence of
Indian arts can scarcely be
overstressed .
K S Kothar'i
Secretary
Sangeet Natak Akademi

