SYNOPSIS
ACT: ONE

emerges through different people’s
statements but Ayesha vehemently '

Qudsia Begum’s house—hold. Zainab

denies. A mob cry in the street reveals

Bua and Khairu, the maid-servants, are

that one of the un—wed girls in the
neighbourhood has killed her new

busy with the preparations for the
religious ceremonies being observed

born. Qudsia, like others, shouts for

on the fourth day after the death of
Khan Zulifqar Khan, the man of the

blood of the girl who has dis-honoured
herself and the family.

house and Qudsia’s second husband.
Quran is being recited outside where
all the men congregate. Ladies who

Ayesha is the only one to plead pardon
for the girl.

have come to mourn enter the scene
with Qudsia and her five daughters.

ACT: THREE

They leave the house after the
ceremony. Qudsia tells her daughters

to find some vocation like knitting or
embroidery as they will be observing a
year of mourning and there will be no
festivities for them. Fatima, the eldest

Zaib-ul-Nissa, a close family friend, has
finished her dinner with the family. She
is startled by the thud on the walls
which turns out to be ticking spree of a
young horse on heat. Qudsia and
Fatima have a heart-to heart encounter
on the eve of daughter’s marriage.

daughter from Qudsia’s first marriage,
is reported to have been peeping
through door-slits and watching the

Qudsia retires to have a peaceful night.

men. She receives a dressing down
from her mother. Nooruddin Mian, the

She once again ignores Zainab’s hints
about forthcoming disaster. Ayesha

young suiter of middle aged Fatima
creats ripples in the house hold with
his presence around the house.
Ayesha, the youngest daughter, is
surprised and upset by the news of
Fatima and Nooruddin’s marriage.

sneaks out into the dark. Mumtaz, who
also wants Nooruddin, wakes the

house—hold to frustrate Ayesha and
Nooruddin’s eloprnent. Qudsia shoots
at the fleeing man who is reported
killed. Ayesha unable to take the shock

Jahan Aara Begum Qudsia‘s

commits suicide. Qudsia faces this

octogenarian mother comes out of her
cell and echoes the frustrations of
young daughters when she states that
she wants to marry a strong young man
and sleep with him.

tragedy with the love of the mother, a
determined female and a faithful
religious human being.

ACT : TWO

Qudsia’s daughters are busy with their
knitting and stitching. Fatima reports

the visit of her would-be in-laws.
Zainab tells an interesting story from
her youth. Zainab tries to persuade
young Ayesha not to indulge with
Nooruddin but Ayesha is defiant.
Qudsia also brushes her off when she

tries to hint at the gravity of
forthcoming events. Evidence of
Nooruddin’s presence around the
house in the early morning hours

