CALCUTTA

‘‘

l
1 ।

l

SUNDAY 20 SEPTEMBER 20 | 5

U

/…५. r""‘\/‘ रे r]

५५

,गै r /

lammebabk
Actor Saorabh Shukla bounced
back into the limelight after his
performance in the film Barf/l
when I joined the National School of Drama
Repertory Company as an actor. The next year

Keri qpvd014qu A0 luv 5 :030 qd

Shekhar Kapur came to castfor his ﬁlm Bandit
Queen and offered me a role. It was the beginning of my movie career.
Subsequently, Kapur asked me whether I
was open to shifting base to Murribai from
Delhi to be an actor. 80. I came to Murnbai
where I bagged a role in Doordarshan's
crime drama, Tehki'kaat. The pilot episode of
the serial was directed by Kapur.
There's no doubt that the movie Surya
earned me a name and fame. in 1997-98 1 was
offered a role in this ﬁlmfor which I had written
the script with ﬁlmmakerAnurag Kashyap. I
played the character of Kallu Mama which
broke newground in Hindi cinema.
Surprisingly, my journey became tough.
post the release of Satya. By that time, I had
high expectations from the roles that I played
and so I simply refused to do roles which I did
not ﬁnd satisfying.
However, I consider the movie Barﬁl, which
released in 2012, a huge turning point because
it marked my revival as an actor; Barﬁlwas a hit
and my role was appreciated too.
The next milestone was the movie lolly
S LLBin which I played the role oqudge 'I'ripathy.
For the ﬁrst time in Indian cinema a judge
is shown to have a complete life. 1 won the
E National Film Award for Best SupportingActor
in 2014 for this role.
My recent release Kmuz Kitney Panee Mein
E
holds a lot of signiﬁcance for me. It was a great
ride for me because I could bring in several
E layers to my character and the director too was

छि .

५

he first turning point in my life
happened when 1 was in the sixth
or seventh standard. Since I came
from a family of artists — my late
father was a Hindusthani classical musician

and my mother, the country’s ﬁrst woman
tabla player — 1 was surrounded by art at
home. My brother and I were allowed to watch
three to four movies aweek. I got so interested
in cinema that I wanted to make a ﬁlm myself.
1 believed that if I kept clicking pictures with a
still camera and joined them, I would eventu—

“‘ mmaimmli

3'0 दृ r, .-i - r ;

ally end up with a ﬁlm. My friends and I even receptive to my suggestions.
I believe that 1 was lucky enough to see the
tried to collect money to buy ﬁlm rolls. The ﬁlm
never happened but we kept living this fantasy. many paths that lay infront ofme and I had the
हुँ option ofchoosing one.
This kick-started my interest in movies.
{As told to Susm[ta Saha)
Another milestone in my life came in 1991, 3

1

