ABOUT “RANGMELL”
Kala Academy’s “Rangmell”. a Theatre Repretory Company was established
as a performing wing of Kala Academy’s School of Dramain 1992. The aim of the
Rangmell is to bring “Theatre” closer to the masses in Goa and throughout India.
So far Rangmell has produced 12 Productions in Konkani, Marathi and Hindi.
It has performed 152 shows in Goa and the States of Maharashtra, Madhya
Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka and capital State of Delhi.

PREM JAGOR
Konkam' Play by Pundalik Narayan Naik

SYN0PS IS
The incident in this play PREM JAGOR written by Mr. Pundalik Naik, takes
place on the background of the popular folk-drama from Goa called JAGOR.
Moga and Baburai, both youngsters belong to labour community. They are
neighbours and their orchards, wherein they work, are also adjacent to each
other. Buburai is not a hard worker but is quite competent to hop in the role of a
crippled character in the captivating dance and Moga loves him deeply and he,
too, loves her.

An unexpected event occurs and Moga gets a proposal from Demu in one
Jagor festival. In fact, Moga despises Demu and therefore is quite dejected. In
the course of events, she opens her heart to her parents.
Moga’s father gets irritated, as he does not like Baburai. The only good job
Baburai can handle, according to him, is the role of crippled character in the
jagor and the hop, putting on the stilt to one leg. Moreover he shuns from the
manual labour of orchard. Most importantly, while plucking arecanuts, he is incapable of swinging from one areca tree to the others.
Baburai accepts the challenge, when Moga appraises him of the fact. He starts
practicing swinging from one areca tree to the other. He is constantly engrossed
in the mood of his favorite character of crippled, even while practicing and one
day he loses his balance, reels to the ground and breaks his limb. The limb being
cut from the knee, he becomes crippled and Moga’s father opposes their
marriage.
Moga is forcefully made to marry Demu and he takes her to his home.
Next year Moga’s parents do not invite Moga for JAGOR. But Moga attends
that JAGOR. Baburai being crippled the magnificent role of the crippled
character was cast to someone else. Moga cannot endure to watch another

person acting and hoping in that character. Longing becomes unbearable, she
stumbles through the darkness and paces straightway to the orchard. Moga’s
father and Demu follow Moga and her father beats her foot with stick and her
legs gets broken and she also becomes crippled like Baburai. But in spite of that

she approaches their regular place of meeting. To her astonishment, she sees
Baburai standing on the edge of the pool and hopping to the tune of the echoes
and resounding words from the ‘Mand’. Moga runs towards Baburai and

embraces him. The play ends with the lovers being united.

