L दृ _ Director
Santanu Bose started his theatre training

under Guru Tripti Mitra. An alumnus ofthe National school
of drama and the Drama studio, London, and is a Calcutta
based performance maker. Some of his major works
include Images of Feminity, Latoon, Sottor/Uttor and
Mother 0f1084-a video loop among Others. He practices
Body Weather for personal training. He1s also interestedin
art direction for ﬁlms.

Growing up as a child with centenary volumes ofIhakur writings all about the house18 already …
a legacy inherited. Moreover, having a mother who has been awarded with Sahitya Bharati Upadhi
certiﬁcate bearing an almost similar signature barring the difference of one letter, was an added
disadvantage Particularly so, when both Ihakur and mother remain your colleagueand (secret) ३
competitors. So negation has to be natural response. Memories of the formative period of Maoist.
movment, though nipped111 bud, has also left strong memories of the denigration ofThakur as “the
grand bourgeois” .Hence the production1s in a way revisiting childhood. Possiblythat18 thereason why
this particular play has remained fascinating with1ts. non adult, not so adult and adulterated characters.
My next most arduous interaction with Gurudev was when I joined Aarabdha, the theatre

school of Ir1pt1 Mitra. Day1n and day out I was silently observing the rehearsal of Raktakarabi and
studying the role of Klshore At the same time I was studying for the fourth paper at the University and,

,.
. . 4.1:.

getting adeptin applying tools of comparat1ve methodology1n reading '1hakur. 'Iripti Mitradied and 1 ' -

left Comp. Lit for ‘National theatre’. Thakur never came back and IIIother died eventually.The”, 1’
three anchors that grounded me to Thakur are all broken and lost. The effects of thatare in this

production-rootlessness.
,,माँ

Over the past few years I moved on to a speciﬁc performance practice. I havetriedtoacquire a /
broad basedtrainingthat proposes a practical strategy to link mind and body. I tried to see theprocessof
performance creation as an open investigation in a collaborative method. '1bus when1 wastocreate this
piece Iwas unsure whether my methodology will work within a training mstltute To my surprise,
I
found that the text was opening up many possibilities. The participatory processin education
, politics

.7” '4 I
4/”
माँओं"

and art as emphasized by Rabindranath18 part ofthe text and also ofthe making ofth1s performa

nce.

So this18 111 some senses an unﬁnished text. We could have worked many more years on it; It18
an open rehearsal, a slice from the process. We could not make a ﬁnished product. We did not wantto
L1fe18 an unﬁmshedprm ect anyway.

i.7
//

"क्यों

