v चरा-.".::": WRITER sAYs
The mind of man is a complex of sentiments, emotions, passions, and thoughts. The today
is all the yesterdays also. No action or reaction of man is ever lost; Nothing vanishes completely, nothing is totaly spent. All that passes, remains, at least in part.

Like colours the basic sentiments of man are few. But exactly as new and new colours
are formed by the changing of shades, by mixing of changed proportions.- Similary the man is
shaken by basically the same passions. The dif'f’erencs in situation, the difference in their zeal,
present them as different passions every time they occur. Hence is man more coufounded, by
that which had in the past been confusing.
The present drama 'MOORTI BHANJAN’ is in fact the drama of the tempests of

the mind of man. To present the sudden pitch which a simple feeling attains, the quick transition
which it undergoes, the unexpected f'eeling-less-ness, the strange rise, the culmination the fright-

ening height of zenith, the deadly depth of depression,is my purpose to portray. The instruments
employed for this purpose (the devices) are, language tone and movement. The structure
which thus emerges is not a result of conflict based upon any interaction of characters. The
characters are assumed. The atmosphere is created. There is nothing real, except the generated
effect. The meaning of this drama is its impact. The meaning is in the response. But this does
not imply that the meaning is at a liberty to change from man to man. The real meaning is
the response which we tried to effect. My purpose is not to deject you,nor to present the failure
of man on the ‘mind-level’ my purpose is to bring out the harsh real of the vast and powerful
unconcious without being tampered and Censored by the meddling intellect, the civilized
concmus.
३
We are harsh but we have attempted the truth, we are naked but we hope you do not
find us unbecoming. Our subject is man, man when he is unconcious of society. And in such
a state man may require understanding, deserve pity, so powerless is he in the grip of his
passion. But, we are sure, he does not deserve shame he does not require rebuke.

Hoping you like the performance well enough to oblige us on our next production. By
then we will try to be still better, we may succeed, perhaps.

«~—
'३३ T V

व्यय-"'""." a
,” ﬂai
l“!

रा-सेवा"-. -, ~~Lt पुर ' j]

उस--------------

l

३ :सं'"'यमे१.-अनि]१-,

