Shooting .......... ..
Shot क्या Sh“...

emits.--............

l O O -‘ t O o I a ० o l o ३ o

We begin wtih atmosphere without geography about man. Trying 10 create the temper
of the century with a handful of characters, Strings of sentences, & sequecnce of motions.(आन का

को

पल,

ही ममनाता

तेज, का

पल

है८००१०० o o ० u o . ० o a u ३ o o ००यह युग

है०३०।३०० o ० a e ooocoooo-o«ego-oaooeooz‘ira‘T-aé}

के

उसका है n ० ८ o c e u ३ o a u h c ० u c o u ० u ८ o ० ० o I.

बुखार

का

शिकार

है

I

Then the action shifts slightly, the man is placed in the office & the dialouge reveals the
prevailing corruption. The issue of friend ship is brought into focus between the subordinat
and the officer. The trmes which threaten it, The system of the office vanishes & the atmosphere
of corruption emerges, loud shouts slowly turn challenging, and voilence take birth, (..'. ......

मारा, मारा, URL..."..................Murder, Murder,............Suicide Suicide)
The voilence in man takes him to a dangerous excess. But religion pacifies him. However6
the assertion of the yearning is not subdued. Religion becomes convenience (The steps of all
characters symolize the f'reedom)( ० '० ० "जय जय राम००००--प्त०४७-७०४प०-०"००जय जय शकुन…

Hear! Hear! ! )

‘

The event passes but the temper remains, the religion lingers on in the atmosphere,but
in a very passive and a weak state. At the first oppurtunity it vanishes. The dialogue beetwen
the mind and the heart begins. The confounded man f’eels hears the sides of the case & demande
a decision, But it is his destiny to live in the pain of incomplete, undecisive flow of existence. The
objects employed here are the lover and the beloved. The situation moves on to the next possibilty of husband and wife. The circumastance of boredom assert themselves. The frustration of

monotony breaks ०ष्प॰(मुझे मेरे बन्हचों की बुढियां नहीं चाहिए) It is then that the desire f’orﬁex
without responsibility emerges (गुलाब की क्यारीयो००--०००"०"७" The winds of Corruption are
set loose as characters on Stage. Strange, wierd & frightening laughter on the exterior presents
internal situation.

And now comes the father, the symbolizer of the family society.The conflict arises with
the children.- The terminology used is that of a rebel. The crisis on stage becomes the atmosphere

हालत, हालात .॰.…हालात)

