Venue

:

Rehearsal Place .

4

z

-

Occassion

:

८ V. Rehearsal of Chhota Dactor

Any one
:
Scene
0K...Lights off...Come on Dear... Feel the roles-Forget what you are ..... Conceive the character......

Concentrate for one minute ..Try to develop it...Right...Take action

Lights...

These are some of the words, which kept echoing in the ears of the ariists of Chhota Dactor
for last few months. Our ears wanted to hear this voice again and again. We used to be virtually
charged by thIs energtic sound.
Slim : quite attractive, smart 2 quite stylish, tall : quite amiable, sparkling bright eyes : quite
confident? round face : quite impressive. He will chat with everyone. Smile, laugh, crack jokes and
will try to cheer up every body. He will make everybody feel his closeness. Seconds later he will
change his mood. He is at work now. Very serious. Lost. Gone slightly far to watch you fully, deeply
and objectively. Not even a slightest

movement of eyebrow can be hidden from him. He will make

the atmosphere very tense and here he has made a funny statement to relieve everybody.

Yes, he is RAJERH (KUMAR), Director of Chhota Dactor.
He has the highest degree in his- field, still one will find him eager to learn; he has a very
powerful sensitivity which can be felt in his writings, he has very keen interest in fine arts; he wants
to learn and do every bit of it; he is educationist by profession and contributes in that field also.
He loves stage, he adores it.

The Man Behind
Um e s h S oin
He was Rajesh who came up with the idea of staging Dwijender Nath Misra Nir’gun’s story
Chhota Dactor. Though other members were reluctant but he was quite confident that the story
would take a very appealing shape as a play which can catch the audience and leave behind an
unforgettable impact. The way he projected the story, was clear indication that how deep he is
involved wtih Chhota Dactor as if he himself was Chhota Dactor. Unanimous decision was taken that
there can be no other person who can direct the play.
'
Rajesh has worked very hard for the co-ordination on the stage and rapport off the stage. For

him each and every role has been of same importance. He potvayed every role whether of Bhatija,
Doctor, Radha, lachamana or Bhabh i with equal case to show us what exactly he wanted. He gave
every role a signlficance a charecter, a grace and an existence. Each and every actor got emotions,
actions, movements and confidence from him. it will be very difficult, if not told, for the audiance
to make out that most of us are stepping first time on the stage. He extracted finest actors of all the
people, How-so-ever perfected a role was, he had, something to add when the character is on
the stage. He told the artists that rehe'rsal doesn't mean repeat of previous but to make new and
new creations every time you come on stage. And also. he was not rigid to his thoughts. He always
welcomed, even invited suggestions at various occasions.
In his personality, his eyes and smile are the most pawerful objects which he uses very
effeciently while functioning. initially, when he propossed this ambitious prOject

we feared due to

the lack of resources and actors But he never looked back, because your sparkling eyes and assuring
smile cannot be seen from your back.
Words only can't describe what I feel or want to say. the result will whisper in your ears
a lot, more which may be away from‘ my sight.

