Watch Them Catching The Sky
D HAR M E N D RA PAWAR

The very speciality of the artist of chhota Dactor is that they can easily be described both
as of group and, ofcourse, individually as well.
All the artists are young in the age group 11-27 years. None of the artists is professional.
‘ These two Charecterstics spell out there other qualities like they have abiding interest in stage,
they tend to sacrifice everything for it. they are very enthusiastic, they do not get tired after
repeated rehearsals, they have sparkling eyes where dreams flourish. They are imaginative and
creative. They are always cheerful, Co-operative and very energetic. Slim, smart and flexible
Rajesh Kumar (Chhota Dactor) in always found eager to act every charecter he faceS. He tries
to mix up spontaneity with style. He is looking after the Hind: department in open School and
has very keen interest in performing arts.
Friendly, short but with high ideas and sincere San/iv Kumar Vima/ is a very natural person

by instient. He is an Assistant Civil Engineer in NPCCL and has hard-working attitude. His laugh
'
speaks volumes about his depth of feelings.
Deepika Sarna (Radha) is the name of a beautiful damsel of sweet sixteen. Music and dance
is her first love-second is awaited. She is in her twelth standard and desires to become hostess
either in the air or on the earth. She is also stepping in the field of modelling.

Handsome Dharmeno’ra Pawar (Doctor and Halwai) always tries to first understand and internalise the charecter before potraying it. He is in his final year of electronics engineering diploma.

His other range of interest includes music and dance as well.
Amital (bh) mean Tall and attrective UmeshSo/n (Lachmana and Prodh) is a very stylish
person. He is serving in a bank and also enjoys Writing. He is very social and efficient in
handling complicated situations

Short, slim, dynamic and confident V/kas Waha/ (Abba Mian .and Pandit ji) always finds time
and interest in cultural activities. He is in his second year of graduation and also .doing computer
course, obviously to have entry ticket for twenty first century.

Tall, amiable and

submissive

member of the group.

Sun/ta Bhandari (Bhabhi and Maa) enjoys respect from each

She is in her second year of graduation. She likes reading and trecking.

Short, attractive and soft

spoken

Vijay Grover (Purabia Pahalwan, Mali and Aadmi) has a

very mischievous smile which can mean anything but indifferent. He is in his second year of
graduation and intends to become a professional actor and model.
Very tall, slightly fat and

first year of graduation.

quite punctual Siddhaam‘ Jain (Pahalwan and Bahereji) is in his

He likes watching movies and enjoys fault findings.

