if! V is“ ३१

To

,संश्चा ’ । U 60

Shrimati Shielaaul
Minister of Education

L

v

उ"

' है

“ . . . हमारी अध्यापिकाएँ हमसे मिलता का सा व्यवहार करें' छोर

. . . मुझे एक बडा सा स्कूल चाहिये जिसमें १ १ कक्षायें हो छोर

वह जरूरत से ज्यादा सख्ती न बस्ते । हमें हर कुछ मतीनों वाद

५ ६ o छात्रा हों । एक-- एक कक्षा में एक-एक अध्यापिका । इस

किसीजगह घुमाने छोर खुशीमनाने केलिए तो जाएँ जिससेकि हर

स्कृत्न में चार टोहत्नटस हों छोर एक कैन्टीन, जहाँ पानी, टोफीस.

बच्चे का पढ़ने में मन लगे I’’

चाय आदि मिले I”

ललित

रमनजीत

‘ ‘... .The teachers should not give home work. Teachers should allow to go to drink water
when the child wants. teachers should not beat children so cruelly. They should not
say everytime about discipline because I am fed up of all this. If you can fulﬁll my these

wishes I will never forget you.”

'
GURPREET

‘ ‘ . . . . The school should organise sport, music, and art competitions so that school is not
very boring. We should not have any assembly in summers because it is very hot outside and in summers we should have proper facilities for playing indoors... . ’ ’
RAJAT

“. . . कहे वर्ष पहने हमारे अग्रेजी स्कूल की फीस पन्द्रह र-ज्यों थी पढाना तो चाहते है मगर वह पैसे कम होने के कारण बने बच्चों
मगर अब पचास रूपये तो गई है । इतनी फीस नहीं बढानी को पढा नहीं सकते r इसीलिए मैं यह कहना चाहती हूँ की फीस
चाहिये । अभी मैं आठवीं कक्षा में पढ़ती हुँ छोर मेरी फीस एक भी इतनी नहीं होनी चाहिये I’’
दस रूपयेमहीने है । कहे माँ बाप अपने बच्चों को अग्रेजी स्कूल में
रजेना
“....The school I would like to have is a school that doesn’t have more than two examinations a year. The school building could also look beautiful if there is more greenery
over there. I would love to have atleast 3 sports periods a week. I would like it if children
(juniors) could participate in dramas and school plays. It would also be good if we
children could make the rules of the school. For example, if we go against our rules
the teachers would have a right to expel us or punish us. . . . ’ ’
KAR'I‘IK

“....The teachers in my school should be well educated. We should have very little
subjects. The school should not give us a lot of home work. This is our age to play.

We should have little studies and more of games. . . . ’ ’
I NDRI ITA

