TAG REMEDIAL
DRAMA UNITSUMMER THEATRE
CAMP-84

‘A unique experiment towards Integration and Creativity’
By Amrit Nikore

Okhla Centre

J

[
Remedial Drama Unit of TAG organised a
six-week workshop at the Okhla Centre for
the mentally Retarded. A group of 39

children. consisting of normal as well as
disabled and mentally handicapped, corn-

ing from different social backgrounds, studying in different institutions participated
in the Workshop. Okhla Centre wore a gay

and festive look with glowing faces of
energetic children curious to learn the play
way and young teachers eager to help
them to explore their creative potential in
a most informal manner.
The focus in the workshop was towards
the total development of the child‘s
physical, social, communicative, emotional and imaginative needs. The activities were experimental , humanistic and
creative. Methods used were innovative in
contrast to those used in the normal
schools. Emphasis was on self-exploration,
assisting the child to realise his potential
and develop his talents. Dance , movement.
mime, role-playing, music , singing, storytelling, arts & crafts, were the major areas
covered.
The atmosphere in the camp was very
congenial. It facilitated the process of integration within the group. Children of different age-levels, different socio-economic
levels, culturally advantaged and disadvantaged developed friendly relations and

shared their thoughts and feelings freely.
An encouraging feature to note was the
concern for the disabled. Normal children
encouraged them to participate fully in all
group activities.

portunities to the disabled and the normal
children to develop initative. self-reliance,
mutual trust and self-image. Activities
were delightful and stimulating. Children
looked forward to each session with excitement. Story telling sessions were most enjoyable. Making a story. narrating it and
enacting it was fun. Music and singing had
an appeal of its own. Interestingly songs
were composed by the children about
thernsleves and other group members.
Dance and movement sessions were thrilling. Mentally handicapped were at their
best in dance sessions and were so immersed that they did not want it to end.
Activities in the workshop have benifitted parents, children and teachers and
everyone associated with it. Though these
benefits cannot easily be quantified, nevertheless there has been a very definite and
noticeable change in their social interaction, intrinsic motivation and creative

abilities of the children.

