L.
A Note on Remedial
Drama

F
It is often forgotten that Drama, in its
origin, was essentially a therapeutic activity, in which forces of life were represented
and sought to be understood, in which
conﬂict were defined and resolved, and
which provided a way of imaginatively
coming to terms with life. Drama was a
healing activity, in which entire community participated.
Many modern disciplines in psychotherapy—whether it be encounter sessions, Gestalt therapy or psycho-drama
techniques—in fact clearly derived from
drama.
Recent years, Remedial Drama has
evolved as a discipline distinct from these
techniques. Its aims and methods are
anything but clinical.
A IMS :

The aims of Remedial Drama are
simple—to help participants to share, to
communicate, and to grow through the
use of Drama.
The discipline has been built on that
belief that by encouraging and improving
communications, ‘Drama’ can stimulate

individuals and groups to beimaginative ,
to be expressive, to built relationships, to
be socially better—adjusted, and to face life
situations positively. While these objectives are meaningful to any developing individual, there are clearly of special
relevance to the disadvantaged.
WHY DRAMA?

3
situations

and human

beings, our

creativity.

Because, through drama, the individual
can express and come to terms with

himself and the life around him.
Because drama is a community
endeavour, where the individual learns to
create and share with the group.
The aim of Remedial Drama is essentially educative and rehabilitative. So much
so that in many parts of the world today.
Remedial Drama is a valued service offered
by institutions devoted to the welfare of the
physically,
mentally
or
socially
handicapped.
CONTENT:
Remedial Drama has little to do with
putting up plays or training actors. There
is no audience. The project centres around
regular Drama workshop sessions, in
which the emphasis is on participation,
discovery, creative self-expression and
group interaction. The workshops consists
of a whole range of drama exercises and
games, all carefully designed to serve
specific ends. They include physical
work—where participants are encouraged
to become aware of the energetic and expressive possibilities of their bodies.
Techniques of mime and dance are also
pressed into service to enable participants
to develop modes of non-verbal communication which is extremely important
to the handicapped and normal child. This
can reinforce and strengthen verbal interaction. More importantly, it can help

Because the capacity for ‘make believe’

participants explore and express feelings

is innate: it is an essential element in our

for which they ‘cannot use words, or for
which, sometimes, there are no words.

growing up, in our learning to handle

