J

L
Experience in Personal

Growth

Dr (Mrs) Avtar Pennathur
Consultant Psychologist

J

L
'

Experience in personal growth was the
spirit that exuded from Okhla Centre during the six-week Summer Theatre Camp

organised by the Remedial Drama Unit of
the Theatre Action Group (TAG) from 21st
May to 30th June 1984. A visitor to the

Okhla Centre, during the period of the
Camp, would have observed personally
that this was a memorable experience for
most of the thirty-nine children and a staff
of twelve young individuals who gave
themselves freely and unstintingly.
During the first parent’s meeting held on
friday of the first week of the Camp, two
of the parents narrated how their children
get up in the morning well before the

alarm clock goes off, because of a fear of
missing the bus and thus missing a day at
the Camp.
Summer Theatre Camp was unique in
many ways. The only demand placed on
the child was his or her willingness for the
experience offered and the child’s ability
to benefit from it as ascertained by means
of a fairly comprehensive audition held
prior to the Camp. Children from different
parts of Delhi, at great distance from Okhla
Centre, were transported from convenient

stops near their places of residence to the
Centre and back, monday through friday
for the six-week duration of the camp.
Transportation facilities were also made
available to the parents every friday for the
parents meeting. There was no charge
either for the camp or for transportation.
The children who attended the Camp
came from normal schools, from special
schools for the disabled-mentally retarded
and spastic, from afﬂuent homes, from
low-middle class homes and from orphanages. Various sibling groups-sister

and sister from orphange, sister and
brother, brother and disabled sister,
brother, sister and brother were also
represented in the Camp. Summer
Theatre Camp offered the children an intense experience of living, caring and shar-

ing with children from different levels of
ability, from varied socio-economic
backgrounds, from a variety of institutions, and from different family-structure
groups.
Medium-size groups with upto thirteen
children and small groups with upto four
children were formed. Group structure
changed every week thus providing each

child several oppurtunities of interacting
with other children in different situations
and roles, in a supportive enviroment offered by young, competent and warmhearted teachers. The focus was on the

child, structure and content being secondary was kept fairly ﬂexible.

Children were encouraged to utilise fully, various senses: touch, hearing, smell
and taste, to help them sharpen their
power of observation; to experience and

explore movement, time and space; to
assume various roles and to enjoy doing
so; to express emo‘tions of happiness, sorrow, sympathy, kindness, annoyance and

anger, to mention a few, without fear or apprehension of being ridiculed; to develop
courage and desire to explore their
environment—present, immediate past,

distant past and future.

With the passage of time children
became noticeably more sensitive to interpersonal needs, developed ease and

confidence in being able to relate to others.
an attitude of caring and concern for
others, and an ease in communicating. A

