mature awareness of personal strengths
and limitations was expressed by one
spastic child thus, "There are so many
things that I can do, only I cannot walk
There are others who have limitations 01

a different nature’.
The staff meetings held daily in the afternoon provided a forum for discussing each
child, his specific needs, his peculiar difficulties and problems and the rate of his
progress and involvement. Initial comments like ‘How do I handle the disabled

child’; Are we babying them too much’;

हैं

है
W
१५
ऊँ

है

श्वे

.

were soon replaced by ‘Amit has opened

up’; ‘Sudhir shows greater ease in relating
to others’; Veena is very good with
younger children’; ‘Nita enjoys helping
others’; ’Mohan takes responsibility for the
disabled’; ‘Leela enjoys mime’; ‘Purri loves
to paints etc.

Method was suited to enable each child
to experience life more fully and creatively. Various media, like sound, music and
singing; movement and dance; mime and

role-playing; clay modelling; drawing and
painting and creative writing were
available to the children. In the fourth
week of the Camp children expressed their

a non-evaluative relationship.

Most of us coast through life realising only a small fraction of our potential urge for
creative expression. This tends to get
frozen too early in life by an impatient or
an erratic parent, and soon thereafter by
an overburdened or an exhausted teacher
both of whom do not respond adequately
to the child’s eagerness or enthusiasm for
expression and experience. Thus the
creative urge is allowed to wilt and wither
and gets stiﬂed and stunted instead of fin-

choice of the media and the group that

ding proper expression in a conducive en-

they would desire to work with.
There were several occasions of express-

viroment and through the media of
carefully
planned
developmental

ing close relationships, of testing the limits

activities.

of newly developed interpersonal relationships and of children not wanting to go
back either, because ‘the shoes could not
It was not an uncommon sight, during
break time to see a young child curled up
in a teacher’s lap, obviously enjoying the

It was a creative and a rewarding experience for the staff and for those of us
who were associated daily with the Summer Theatre Camp to see most of the
children integrate with the different
groups through shared experience of
various developemental activities. It was

new-forged contact and enjoying the

a delight to see each child unfold himself

closeness, or an older child socialising sit-

and grow at this own pace without being
pushed. The creative ways of expressing.

be found’ or they had’ lost something’.

ting next to the teacher, or another one
sharing coffee brought from home. As the
days progressed children showed little or
no hesitation in expressing disruptive
emotions and even temper tantrums, thus

enabling themselves to work through their
concerns and anxieties in a supportive and

life, of coping with the enviroment and the
positive attitudes developed would largely remain with these children to be further
strengthened and sharpened with oppurtunities available to them in the years to
come.

