PARENT ’ S NOTE
r

.
Shanti Auluck

I came to know about this Summer
Camp through Puneet’s school, Bhartiya
Vidya Bhavan. I felt very encouraged as I
knew ’I‘AG’s plan and approach. I felt it
was Something where the children could
have entriching experience without the
monotony of formal education which the
children mostly have to face in usual
educational setting.
Puneet is a mentally handicapped child.
My attempt has always been to provide
him wide and varied exposures so that he
gets as many learning opportunities as

J
I have really liked the ﬂexibility in the
way activities are done. suiting to each
child’s interest and temperament. I have
observed the children throughly enjoying
everything and fully involved. I really admired the affection, patience and concern

that the TAG teachers have for all the
children attending the programme. Not

only that but they seem to be fully involved with the children while carrying on dif-‘
ferent programmes.
My observations over the weeks made

me notice one thing very vividly and that
is, that all children normal & handicapped

possible. Besides, allowing him to be in
varied situations would help him in the
development of his interests. He can pick

are interacting in a very spontaneous way.
showing complete acceptance of each

up a few interests which can gradually
give him a more satisfying and meaningful

schools which are trying for such integraton. Maybe, such free interaction has

life. My expectations in this regard have

been possible due to greater contact and
participation in varied activities & pro-

really been fulfilled by the various ac-

other. This is not achieved even in those

tivities which have been planned by TAG
and even more so their approach.
Through the discussion with Barry John
and his team of capable and enthusiastic

grammes. Regarding my own child. I find
him throughly liking 8: enjoying all the ac-

young

tivities in their usual settings I found

him only). In the morning, waking him up
& dressing him is much easier bcause he
gets interested with the idea that he is going to meet ‘Drama Uncle’. This is not so

myself to be informed in a very fresh way
about human interactions. We all feel at

easy when he has to go to his usual school.
for which he always would say “Aaj Chut-

some or the other time this tragic lack of

ti Hai”. Besides I am also noticing in him
a little more maturity in behaviour. showing very little stubbornness. more responsive to suggestions. better in language use.
and more frequency of make-believe kind

boys

and

girls

during

parent/teacher meetings and also talking
to the teachers and observing their ac-

respect and recognition for a commoner’s
existence. We remain unduly obsessed by

excellence and such kind of approach
towards children hampers the growth processes. I found TAG’s approach in this

regard very positive and almost a kind of
hope that there are people amongst us who
are very seriously realizing these limitations and making very sincere, serious and
constructive efforts in this direction.

tivities there. Even at home he is willing

to go to :Drarna uncle' (a name given by

of games. He often enacts the roles that he
might be doing there seeing others doing.
e. g. , one day he was exactly copying as if

he is a cameraman taking photos from
various angles. Another day he was im-

agining hirnslefto be a balloon and rocket.

