ty any kind of handicap is taken as a social
stigma and in a fast paced world of today
very few people stop to think about these
people. Most of us know what these type
of children are not able to do but few of us
will try to find out what these children can
do, only a few will try to provide the oppurtunity for the things these children can do.
So providing this kind of oppurtunity was
a remarkable idea.
The integration camp provided a
tremendous opportunity for children and
specially handicapped children. They had
an opportunity to express themselves, par-

ticipate in group activity, interact with
each other, play and learn by direct observation. Children were taken to places like,
Rail Museum, Zoo, National Museum of
Natural History etc. , which helped tehm to
acquire first hand knowledge by observing
the surroundings themselves.
Teachers have taken keen personal interest in each and very child with the
result they have tried to take out the best
aspect of each and every child. The

at the end of six weeks whether they have
been able to achieve that aim, if not... .
why?
3) The camp provided a lot of opportunity for the handicapped children but the
normal children started loosing interest
after some time, may be because it was a
school like routine for them or maybe a
normal child has also a lot more interesting opportunities at home. So to keep

their interest also the programme should
have been a little innovative.
But all said and done, this was a
remarkable project and was a very fruitful
experience for the children. I will also take
this oppurtunity to thank all the members

of TAG‘s Remedial Drama Unit for doing
such a commendable job, with so much of
zeal and making it a worthwhile experience for all the children.

An Unforgettable
Experience

parents meeting of every Friday was a very

Dr. Seeta Sinclair*
goo idea. It helped everyone to understand
the children better and provide a better
communication between teachers, parents
and children, which is very essential for an
activity like this.
I personally enjoyed the performances of
the children on parents meetings and
especially the way they were taught to express themselves through mediums like
mime and music. It was a commendable
job done by the young teachers teaching
these children.
But as a parent I would like to make a
few humble suggestions.
1) The duration of the camp was a very

long for all the school going children. They
did not get any opportunity to go out of sta-

tion during the summer vacation.
2) The aims and objectives of the Camp
were not defined. I personally think if the
objectives were defined the parents would
know what they are trying to achieve. And

The Theatre Action Group (TAG) has

just concluded an integrated course in
dramatics for mentally handicapped
children (and a few such adults), as well as

for non-handicapped children. The enthusiasm, joy of life and dedication of the
TAG team was amazing. It was a delight
to observe and participate in their programmes. All the children that I met and
talked with were most enthusiastic about
the course.
The activities of the group had a wide
range. There was no didactic class-room
teaching. Instead, there was freedom,
rhythm, music, singing, dance, drama,
painting, stories, films and fun activities,
with everyone enjoying themselves. One
day a week was earmarked for outside
trips, such as to the 200, the rail museum
etc. The learning content was wide, and

