ridicule, these children had fun socialising

him to spend his Summer vacations and

with and participating in all the activities
of the group, along with the handicapped.
They have learnt to understand them, and
have become personal friends with them.
without any pressure or sense of duty. In
addition, they have also enjoyed the activities, and got their learning painlessly.
Such innovative techniques of teaching
and learning, I feel, should be used much
more widely, both in schools for the handicapped and for the non-handicapped. If
teachers of schools, whether special or integrated or those of normal children, as
well as parents, could be given short orientation courses in the methods TAG uses.
and if these could be generally applied, I
think it would make a great deal of difference to the motivation of the children
for learning, and to their enjoyment of it.
Also, if TAG could see their way to continuing this course, perhaps even on a once
a week basis, I am sure all the children as
well as their parents would be very happy.
and do their best to help to make this
possible. The children have enjoyed it so
much and benefitted so greatly, that I , personally would do whatever I can towards
this end.
,
I also think that such methods can have
a much wider application—in our
hospitals, in psychiatry, physiotherapy
and pediatrics; in old age homes, orphanages and creches. Freedom of movement and expression, rhythm, dance and
music and joy of life are priceless and
needed in practically all spheres of life. I
hope at TAG will be able to enlarge their
field of action and I wish them all success.

mix with other children as well as with
people of different age groups. We are

* Consulting pediatrician, previously Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Head, Mental Retardation
Clinic, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
Delhi.

Mrs. R.V. Singh
We sent our son Bhawani to participate

in TAG’ s Remedial Drama Unit, as we felt
that this would be an interesting way for

always looking around for opportunities.

from which Bhawani can benefit. This
camp being so different from the normal
school system, we thought Bhawani would
enjoy it and at the same time get in the
various activities conducted at this
workshop.
During the last six-weeks, Bhawani has
enjoyed participating in the various activities being conducted, like painting,
singing, role-playing, miming, etc. Being
of a friendly and outgoing nature he has
developed a strong sense of sympathy for
other children with problems and
handicaps.
I have been visiting the workshop every
monday and spending the forenoon with
these children, participat’ng in various activities with them. It is very heartening to
see the dedication and efforts put in by the
teachers of TAG’s RD. unit the workshop.

Having children at various levels of handicap and working with them together is
not an easy task. It has been a great experience for me to watch the youngsters
handling these children and getting them
interested and involved in so many activities. The various films shown during
the workshop have also been very interesting and educative.
I have also been attending the ParentsTeachers meetingss every Friday. We have
had discussions on various topics. It has
given

the parents

an opportunity

to

discuss the various problems faced by the
handicapped children. By getting together
the parents have been able to share ideas
and experiences with one another.

Our overall impression is that the
workshop has proved extremely useful in
developing interest in a variety of activities

and in bolstering his self-confidence. We
have benefitted by meeting the various
teachers and other specialists involved in
the workshop.
-

