“Why can’t a child be left alone to think
for himself”, to create an imagination, an
inkling, a desire, an emotion ... all at his
own level. Why does he have to be inculcated with propoganda of the adult
world. I think. we as adults often make a

big mistake in not being able to see the
world from a child’s point of View. The
sensitivity, the fear and isolation, the cold

energize in an isolated enviorment, a cacoon or this Camp, but from the growing
experience of childhood. This camp has
been an extension of that growth process.
Thus excellence should not become the
parameter of judging a child’s development. but what‘s important is to find a
balance somewhere and understand his

needs. All that he says in a soft Whisper is

frustration, and more often the tender love

“...look into my eyes and see the
kaleidoscope. . . ” “Isn’t it beautiful!

that askes so little of us, to my mind, spontaneity and creative imagination do not

Aru n

spontaneous outburst of emotion, the

J

F
THE GREAT DEATH
by ALOK SIKKA
“No you can‘t die....no, no..."
And Shiela died.
This family was of two brothers. They
both had lost their wives. Their names
were Ram and Raj. Ram had one son
Sharm. Raj had two sons Raj u and Amrit.
Sharm was studying. His father had all
hopes that his son will grow up into a good
man and do many good things. He used to
pray to God to make him feel that.
Time passed. Sharm grew up. He took
Science. Today he went to see the result.
Everybody was waiting to see him back.
Suddenly we saw him come back. He was
coming near us. He came and told us
“Papa, I have come Ist in whole India. ' ’
How happy Ram was. He said, “dear son.
I am very happy. This is all due to the kindness of God. Let us go and pray to him’ ' .
“No dad. I will never pray to him as long
as I live.”
‘Don’t be foolish my son, Come on.”
Look pujariji’s calling you.
Sharm said “this pujari is foolish. The

इन्हें . \

things you give to your God, he eats up.
He really makes you fools. There is no God.
If there would have been a God, my mother
would not have died. If there is a God, you
would have been a rich man. ’ ’
The father became very angry. “The
God will become angry if you do not pray

