1:1111:- ,ट if 3
l

FILMSOF ME WEEK @24FRAMES PERSECOND
You can write to Ganesh Maikariat
« ५ _ . .i i ५ . v दृ दृ. . . 'ब्वध्दब्बगृद्वटक्यागृदृ८1८1३' i ii'.‘ i 7‘ linmm‘JIriui

"rdering "

० give the credit where due,

._१

I"

Rahul Jadhav’s Murder Mestn'

has a great title, a pun on the
genre, and a reasonably good
idea for a film. Inspite of the
uneven cast, they do have some topof—the—line actors. The problem starts
when all these elements have to be
combined and presented in a
coherent way.
The idea goes something like this.
Prabhakar, a postman (Joshi) in the

habit of reading some of the letters
before delivering them finds two
postcards, seemingly written by a

' i ‘I I ३ . Rahul Jadhav
. , I ‘ HrishikeshJoshi, Dilip
Prabhavalkar, Va ndana Gupte, Krami
Redkar, Manasi Naik, Vikas Kadam,
Sanjay Khapre
T. "है …
._ fi‘. UA

woman to her lover. The letters

anywhere, but there‘ are phones, and

mention a plan to murder her hus-

wouldn’t it be easier to plan a murder
on the phone than to write postcards?
Easier, safer and quicker?
The film begins like a mystery with

band, one Madhav Mestri. Prabhakar
half-heartedly tries to track down the
lover, but later concentrates on the
probable victim instead, for no appar-

ent reason. He soon ﬁnds oirt that
there is not one, but three Madhav
Mestris in the area, and one of them

may be in trouble.‘But which one?
Now, we do understand 'that we
are not to take the film too seriously
and it’s a comedy and all that. Still, if
one expects the audience to believe in

one person finding out about a possibility of a murder and the resulting
investigation. About halfway, that

structure disappears. Prabhakar’s role
is minimised and instead, we concen-

trate on the three couples. The husbands are warned about a possible
threat and they spend most of the

a particular idea, one must make it

second half being afraid. Without
going into details, I will mention that

believable in the logical framework

the explanation for the postcards is so

of the film. Murder Mestri has no

silly that probably it would have been

such framework.

the funniest joke in the film if it

1 can perfectly believe that a dogooder postman with voyeuristic tendencies may exist; I also believe that
even small towns have potential murderers and there may be trouble brew—
ing below a calm surface. But 1 do not
believe that a murderess will write the

plan on a postcard where not only
the postman but also any of the hundreds of postal employees can access
the information and call the police.
This is a fundamental problem and
anyone who wants to enjoy the film

wasn’t so utterly disappointing.
There are some notable perform-

ances, mainly from the veterans Dilip A
Prabhavalkar and Vandana Gupte as if;
one of the Mestri couples. Kranti
Redkar shows an excellent sense of
timing as the wife who may or may
not be poisoning her husband.
Hrishikesh Joshi, one of the best
actors Marathi cinema has these days,
is criminally (no pun intended) wasted in a role with a decent screen
presence but without any substance.

may still not be able to look away

Others try hard, maybe too hard.

from it.

I always wished that someone
would make a good murder mystery
in Marathi one of these days. Maybe
someone eventually will!

It is pretty obvious that the film is
conveniently set in the Eighties and

there are no cellphones to be found

.

