I N TERVA L— 1 5 Minutes

M O H I N I ATTA M
३

THILLANA

Ragam Chakravagam

Adi Talam

THILLANA is one of the items in Mohini Attam. This is pure dance and
follows certain rhythms and deﬁnite patterns that are peculiar to Mohini Attam.
This Thillana is different from that of Bharata Natyam.

6.

MAHABHARATA

For today’s programme a few important incidents are taken from the Mahabharata :—
In the past, in the present‘world and for all time to come the epic of Mahabharata will ever remain as nectar to the body and the soul of Man.

Krishna’s devotees are the ﬁve Pandavas and to Krishna these ﬁve represent
life itself.

Panchali also is completely devoted to Shri Krishna.

The Pandavas are the cousins of the Kauravas but in the mind of the Kauravas
there is only one ruling thought and that is to destroy the Pandavas. The chief
of the Kauravao brothers is Duryodhana who secretly arranges to play dice as

to defeat the Pandavas.
The eldest of the Pandava brothers is Dharmaraj who is the embodiment of all
that is good and truthful but loses everything in the gambling without looking to the consequences. He stakes his wife Draupadi and loses her.

Poor, helpless Draupadi is caught by their wicked enemies and dragged to
court. Frightened, heart stricken with sorrow and yet digniﬁed, in a shrill
voice she questions the validity of her being the prisoner of her enemies.

“I ask him who played the dice whether in it he ﬁrst lost himself or his wife”
She appealed to the elders of the assembly for their judgement.

The whole

court was silenced. Their silence proclaimed Duryodhana’s guilt but none
dared oppose his action openly.

Enraged, Dussasana loses his temper.

He darts after her and catching her by

the hair he stoops to unrobe her. All the elders having failed to protect her
she thinks of Lord Krishna. A miracle happens. Krishna gives her ever fresh

garments to clothe her body. As Dussasana tries to strip her, more clothes
seem to clothe her body till Dussasana sits down with fatigue and her clothes
pile up before the assembly.

