रा-सं/य:
r/

ON E E PIC, TWO RETE LLI N GS
What:
, a two-day theatre festival partnered
by t2, presented by Master Minds Theatre and Weavers Studio‘
Where: GD Birla Sabhagar
When: Draupadi, September 17, 7pm onwards; Chakravyuh,
September 18, 7pm onwards
Tickets: Priced at Rs 500, Rs 800, Rs 1,000, Rs 1,500, Rs 2,000 and
Rs 2,500; available on www. bookmyshow.com and at the venue (10am
to 6pm). Call 09830044455 for details
Organiser speak: “'I‘o revisit one of our most respected and
engaging epics is a challenge, especially as stage presentations. In
the Mahabharata Retold weekend, we will witness that political
drama which is more relevant today than ever before,” said
Darshan Shah of Weavers Studio.
.

Key player: Nitish Bharadwaj as
Krishna (yes, the Krishna of the
.
popular ’80s ’I‘V serial Mahabharat!)
The plot: It is the story of the 13th
day of the great battle of
Kurukshetra in the Mahabharata.
Chakravyuh explores the killing of
Abhimanyu, the son of Arjuna and
Subhadra, after he entered the

The players: Himani Shivpuri, Rakesh Bedi and others
The plot: The Hindi play revolves around a night in a village in
Haryana, when all the male members went fora wedding
ceremony, leaving the women at home. The two oldest women,
Kartaro and Imarti, gather all the girls and start enacting scenes
from a play called Draupadi, which they used to stage around 15
years back when itwas banned by the patriarch of the family for
allegedly “spoiling the minds of the women”. Different facets of
their lives — past andpresent — come to the fore, which seem not
much different from the life and times of Draupadi. What happens
next when the male members return is best kept a secrettill you
catch the play on Saturday!
Duration: 1 hour 50 minutes including a 10-minute break
Director speak: “Ancient Indian texts tell usthat every human
being consists ofpurush (male) andpmkriti (female). It is the
prakriti in me that made me write Draupadi, a tale of women, by
women and through women,” said Atul Satya Kaushik.

chakravyuh (a defence formation) of
warriors in the battle, and also the
philosophy of chakravyuh in human
life. Aren’t we all playing
Abhimanyu in one form or the
other; tryingto survive against all
odds? In the garb of a mythological
tale, the play triggers debates on
issues rangingfrom the plight of
single mothers to the glory of
martyrdom. Written and performed
in verse form (in Hindi),
Chakmvyuh marks the comeback of ,
Nitish Bharadwaj as Krishna, this
time on stage.
Duration: 1 hour 40 minutes
without interval
Director speak: “Chakravyuh is a
period drama that Shows that our
ultimate karma is to keep ﬁghting
the chakravyuh of life,” said Atul
Satya Kaushik.

