Kalyariee Mulay in scenes fromirriSeen

Body Politics
In her play, unSeen, actor Kalyanee Mulay measures, shaves and stamps herself

to make a case for the liberatedwoman
mﬂs‘mmg. .DlPA N ITAN ATM
LEI'T‘ERS ARE meant to be read, but the
otie writteti by Rabindranath Tagore in
I891 was diflerenL “I sawit as atext that
did something to my body." says
Mumbai-basedactor Kalyanee Mulay.
Tagore had written ashocking missive.
titled Romobai-erBaktr'rar Upnlakklre. an
ode to patriarchy. upholdingtenets, such
as “obeying her husband is a woman's
duty and should not be compared to a
goru soliibgiving instructions tonatives”.
Goa-based director Vislinupad Barve
found the letter in the Sahitya Akaclemi
library. lodged under “Miscellaneous

It is not justa body: it is my
body in this space. While
performing unSeen, I got a
chance to explore the often—
blurred line between the
public and the privatenature

of being female.
KA LYAN EE MU LAY
riiosi ofthe time. basedon thedirect or
periences of the performer himself or

Tagore", and bedismissed theidea otper—
forming itasa dramaticreading ora coriversatr‘on onstage. WithMulay. who had
been hisjunior at Delhi's NationalSchool
ofDrartia hecreated unScerr. a 55-minute
non-verbal play whose ﬂight pathbegins
with ‘I’agore’s words but meanders into
contemporary
a woman

realities

of

herself. The emotional story 15 the per-

former's story. one way or the other. In
the Touch segment. for instance. I do an
action in which I srt wrth rriy legs Wide

open and then slap rriyselfinthe thighs.
This action emerged suddenly. possibly.
front a memory of being told as a child.
‘Why are you wearing Bermudas‘ and
'Don'tsit With your legsapart.‘ After I d I d
this, my d nectar and I didn't speak about
it. My mouth rswrde open in this 30-58(—

being

The play, by Process TheatreZ. will be
staged as part of “IgniteI . a Festival of
Contemporary Dance,“ on October 14.
Excerpts from an Interviewwith Mulay:

oitd sequence. It means drfletent things
to the audience; some have seen this as
rape. others as love making. For me. it is

How did 'I'agnre's lettertrigger the
play, शक्ति?

about holding that moment.

In 2012, we were marking 15: years
of Rabindranatli Tagore's birth. and
Vishnu (Vishnupad Barve) was searching
lota way to look atthe Nobel laureatedi{-

How was the process ofcreating the
play duringa residency in Goa?
l'he residency lasted almost two

Iereritly. During the investigation, he

months. during which I had to think

५ foundthe letter written by Tagore when
hewas in his 305 inresponse to Pandita
Ramabai'sspeech the year beiore. (The
socral reformer had caused a ruckus at a
subhuin Pu neby sayi ng. 'Women can do

about the various ways in which I looked
at my body. Tivo line artists made the
props while Vishnu ( t he director)crafted

the sound installation from kitchen utensils. The soundscape iinds rhythm in the
different things that women do in the
kitchen, and there are twointervening
songs क्वे one train (liaiiualika and the

anythinga man can. except drink alco—
hol.') The letter was published in Bhomti
Periodical.Twenty years later, Tagore became one of the spearheads of women's
. emancipation. This showed that he had

other a piece at Limp music,

दृ undergone a huge personal transforma६ tron, Ourquestion Is. 'ls society still like

The play has been performed at
major venues, from Colombo

International Theatre Festival to
International Theatre Festival of
Kerala, .irid wonacclaim from the

the younger Tagore?’ urrSeen is not based
only on this letter but itstarted a churn-

' mg inour minds.
What is the narrative structureof
the performance?
Theplay hasseveral dwisroris — gaze.

touch, sanitation or beautification. kiss.
. menstruation. becoming a deity and rain
tasy ramp walk, stamp and home. In
Touch. I measure every unit गाँ tny body
usinga my; mu.
'
'
I Hran

if the conventions ofcleanliness are a
woman's personal choice or Iias she been
conditioned. If she has body Iiair. why
doesn't shefeel all right I I shave my legs
on stage in this segment, Rump Walk is

when she does a fantasy sasbay while
dressed in household things. like a skirt
made from a tub or a washing machine
pipe acting as a corset or a rnme blade as

anose pm.
Yourbody Is thrust underthe
spotlight
‘
. a
macrocasmlc gender struggle plays
out. How did you experience the play
as an actor?
It IS not आडा a body: it is my body in
this space. While performing irriSt-t-ri. I got

a chance toexplore the ot‘tetiblui red line

between the public and the private n.1ttrre at being female. During rehearsal.
we asked the others at the residency in
stamp rny botlywlierever they waniml, I
was stamped at several plates. irorii
tongue to too. We have भिक्षा। write of
these places in the play where I
stamp myselt.
Does the play also draw from your
persu na I expe ri e rrCe 5
As I look at it, a solo pt'llttllndlltt‘ I\.

theatre community. But.did
everybodysee the same play or didit
change every time?
As things go on in नीड outside world.
my per Iorniantc begins to evolve I ii
terms oi the t‘ﬂL'lgV in mv body and IIIV
।नि१हि1१।४४०।९1९१निना९।मा5 | ५।।।1८।।1ड्डा।'३/.१त्मा।0आस्था) sarcastic and \ttlttt‘lllllt’) helpless
iniSvt-n is still t‘\‘itl\ nig
uann niII Ivclii'rfomn'tt I"
t'tlrlli'ritl llit .rlrt'uii l}.(uh-‘7 Hut

slummdsi-m "1५५५ R» hit)
I "प्राणा nirn ngrnimtni.clmrntiltonr

