DIRECTOR'S NOTE

Efforts have been made to corrupt and distort history in all
societies and cultures. And this
goes on till day. But to destroy the
very conception of history is
unique to our culture. Everything
is so mixed up and distorted that
it is cl ifficu It to arrive at the rea l ity.
We have inherited the art of turning everything real and solid into
a form less void.
In such a state, to be able to

liberate a we | I -known myth from
its mythological concepts and
beliefs, and to give it a new
meaning altogether and that too
with total artistic validity, certainly demands courage and ar-

arrived at. For the conflict in the

tistic potential. Doodhnath Singh

play is not only at the level of

Doodhnath Singh also re-

has been able to achieve m is in

ideas but also at the level of two

mained with us throughout the

YAMdATHA.

contradictory life styles and cul-

production of the play. His pres-

The play breaks new ground

tures. It is also racial in nature. To

at the level of style and language.

bring out this conflict with full

ence helped a great deal in recreati ng the script for the produc—

Ritual istic use of poetry has cre-

theatrical gusto and validity, a

ated a language which is new to

delicate balancing was needed

rewarding experience for me .

tion.Two new scenes were added.
This could not have been pos-

Hindi play Writing and theatre.

to create an artistic whole. It was

I Synthes is of Sans krit drarnatu rgy,

a difficult task. My experience of

sible without the active associa—
tion of the playwright in the proc—

epic style and folk theatre has

working in different genres and

ess of the production.

created a style which is unique.

styles of theatre was an advan-

The play also poses new

tage. My interaction with the B hi I

challenges to the contemporary

tribe and its perform ing traditions

theatre. In order to create two

in Rajasthan also came in handy.

altogether different and contradictory world's, a synthesis of

semble work in the true sense of

contradictory theatre styles and

the word. Everybody contributed

different stage techniques was

in everything and this has been a

This production is an en-

b‘ H A N U B H AR ATI

