SECRETARY’S REPORT
On the 5th January 1975 at the Annual Picnic at Sohna, Haryana we had our Annual
General Body Meeting in which it was decided that the previous Committee would continue
for another year in ofﬁce. The Executive Committee appointed various sub-committees for
proper and eﬂicient functioning of this Branch.
On the 25th January 1975 a Get-Together was arranged at the Free-masons’ Hall,
Janpath to show respect and regards to our good old teacher Prof. Sudhir Kurnar
Chakrabarti ’25M. This was followed by Rabindra Jayanti cum Baisakhi Celebrations on
the 18th May 1975 at 2 Rajdoot Marg. There were skit, Recitations and Rabindra Sangeet
followed by a contributory dinner. The Annual Reunion was held on the 16th August 1975
at AIFACS Hall. Vocal music, dance and Badal Sircar’s “Ballavpurer Rupkatha” were
staged on the occasion. It was highly acclaimed by the audience and the Press. The closing
of the year was marked with the Annual Picnic on the 18th January 1976 at Chakravarty
Lake, Haryana.
During the year the membership drive produced good results. The Branch with an
humble start with 27 founder members in 1957 has today reached a stature with about 280
members. New names are pouring in every week! In less than two decades we have
achieved the task of wielding a uniﬁed concept and activity among our members, but we still
have a long way to go.
We continue to exchange news of importance to our Branch through the Circular
Letters. We are also maintaining close contact with the Central Body at Jadavpur and
Branch Associations.
In spite of our appeals we have not received proper response from our members for
good articles for our souvenir. It is apprehended that the whole purpose of the souvenir
will be lost if it cannot stimulate the intellectual interest of our members.
On behalf of the Executive Committee I thank you all for making the year 1975-76
another year of success.

Sd/G. H. G u c h h a i t

Honorary Secretavy

{m ' -.

"3 " , "३३३३३" '

' "उशा a; swag " है
तो 6’” ['1 [I बाढ I,

