ABOUT SHRI RAM CENTRE
Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts grew out of what was originally known as the
Indian National Theatre in 1948 heralding a revival in the Indian cultural scene. A leading
cultural organization, its objective is to nurture and develop talent in the performing arts
and its programmes are organised towards this end.

THEATRE R E PE RTORY :
Started in 1980, the SRC Repertory has blossomed into one of the leading companies
of the country. The repertoire of oustanding plays performed by the repertory including
Sakhararn Binder, Jis Lahore Nahin Dekhya Woh Janmai Nahin, Babuji and Pogla
Ghoda have contributed significantly to Hindustani drama in the country. Besides
performing regularly in Delhi, the Reperotry also stages sponsored shows in other
parts of the country.
The SRC Repertory has presented classical, traditional, western and modern plays in
various styles and forms under the direction of such eminent theatre directors as Habib
Tanvir, B.V. Karanth, Rajendranath, B.M. Shah, Bansi Kaul & Bhanubharti. The Repertory
has performed 66 Hindi plays since its inception.

ACTING COURSE :
To encourage young arnateuers, the Shri Ram Centre for Performing Arts conducts a
two year part time training programme. The 1 st year is devoted to in-depth study of all
aspects of theatre and in the 2nd year the basic theatre skills learnt are integrated into
production on lndian-classical, experimental, Western and modern-Indian dramas. This
helps to prepare a professional team of actors to sustain the Hindi-theatre's future.
Students who complete the course with excellent grades are either absorbed by our
Repertory or join the National School of Drama or the Media.

CHILDREN THEATRE WORKSHOP :
The SRC Children's Theatre Workshop is a one-month production oriented workshop
conducted during summer vacation every year under the guidance of a renowed Camp
director. This feature is aimed to impart theatrical values to children and to improve
their communication skills.

S RC KAVI
SA M M ELAN :
Every year the Shri
Ram
Centre
organizes a Kavi
Sarnrnelan. Eminent
poets like Neeraj, Bal
Kavi Bairagi, Ashok
Chakradhar
and
others grace the
occasion with their
poetry. The Kavi
Sarnrnelan is held in
the honour of Late
Lala Shri Ram.

(.7311 --- 3 ‘62. S

