Khilona Nagar

"l've stumbled on the side of twelve misty mountains
I've walked and I've crawled on six crooked highways
I've stepped in the middle of seven sad forests
l've been out in front of a dozen dead oceans

threatened in the face of greater economies. The
ostensible development of the so-called
developing nations is opening up the mouth of
an enormous graveyard for the future. As the
song of Bob Dylan (quoted above) professed a
bleak vision of a precarious future, the novel by

I've been ten thousand miles in the mouth of a graveyard
Nabarun Bhattacharya also prophetically reflects

And it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard, it's a hard
It's a hard rain a—gonna fall"

a dystopia that will be our 'organic' future. I felt the

need to share this apparition and nightmare with
the people. It must be austere and depressing.
Just after people have welcomed a very 'happy'

Set in a dystopian (‘Dystopz‘a' is an imagined place
or state characterized by dehurnanization,
totalitarian governments and environmental
disaster) future, Shahar Khilona is a play that
depicts the fate ofa small town and its inhabitants.
Today we have reached a moment where
everything — be it our memory, history, justice,
commitment, thought or even our fragile bodies —
looks vulnerable and perishable. A constant sense
of anxiety, panic and fatigue consumes us. The
profanity of our indifferent existence is making us
incessantly guilty and rernorseful. Nevertheless,
we have mastered the technique of hiding this
guilt, turning our faces away and pretending not
to see. As a result, human contempt and hatred
are displayed without any self—reproach. We are
becoming cynical about the future of our own
children and forthcoming generations. As we are
recording the glorious phase of scientific
inventions and technological innovations, we are
erasing the memory of our historical wisdom. We
are naively forgetting the crimes of war,
communal riots, gender atrocities and ever—
growing disparities of wealth, dying nations,
dying children and fore mostly, our power to
dissent. Everything is happening and getting
reported through the grand spectrum of media
intervention in our social fabric. Poor countries,
weak populations, deprived and starving
populaces ofthese developing nations are deeply

new year, with abundant celebrations and mirth,
this theatrical experience might create a slight
anomaly in their existing procedures of living.
The play is futuristic in a very 'liberal' sense of the
word. It is a fable about a small town called 'Shahar
Khilona.’ lt narrates, juggling in time and space,

the growths, survivals, struggles, disasters and
sufferings of the town and its inhabitants. And
finally makes them the subject of a great
experiment.

