दिय-मवा-युन-मा-पपप/शिप्रा, Nagar

6151?:

National School of Drama Repretory Company
National School of Drama Repertory was formed in 1964 & 65 on an experimental basis by Sh. E. Alkazi.
In the beginning, it consisted ofonly four actors, it later expanded in to a larger group ofactors, musicians

and technicians, mainly drawn from graduates of the National School of Drama, Delhi. In 1964
Late Shri Om Shivpuri led the Company and later in 1977, Late Shri Manohar Singh become the first
regular Chief of Repertory when l\/Ianoha r Sing h left the Repertory Company in 1885, for a short period
Miss. Uttra Baokar and Ms. Surekha Sikri looked afterthe functioning ofthe company.
Late Shri J.N. Kaushal officiated as the Chief till 1988. From 1989 to 1994 Prof. Ram Gopal Bajaj

was handling the company. From 1994 to 97 Shri I<ausha| was again functioning as acting Chief. From
1999 NSD graduate Sh. Suresh Sharma was appointed as the permanent chief of the Repertory

Company.
Over the years Repertory has produced a variety of plays ranging from stylized musical to Realistic and
contemporary adaptation of foreign and Indian play. In addition, several eminent Directors of National
and International repute from within the country and abroad have worked with the Company.

The Repertory has performed over 1 82 plays by 92 playwrights and has worked with 90 directors. Quite a
few ofthe Actors ofthe company have emerged as celebrities in Theatre, Cinema and Television in I ndia.
The Repertory tours extensively all over the Country and has made several successful, trips to Germany,
Poland, U K, Nepal, Mauritius, Bangladesh and China.
In 1993, the Company organized a major Festival of lVIohan Rakesh's plays to mark his 20th death
anniversary. In 1991 on the occasion ofthe Com pany‘s Silver Jubilee, Rang Yatra an exhibition consisting
its Photographs, Set—Models, Costumes, Properties and Poster etc was also put up.

August 22, 2013 was Repertory Company's 50th foundation day and Golden Jubilee Celebrations were
kick started on this day.The second important event ofCompany's Golden Jubilee Celebrations was held
from March 22 to 24, 201 4, where all the ex—repertory company members were invited. On this occasion

scenes and songs from memorable production of the-past were presented to the audience, it was a
nostalgic evening for many people.

Business Manager
DeepakWadhwa

Box Office
DeepakWadhwa

Production Co-ordinator

Sita Ram Yadav

Ade l Kadir Shah

Dhararn Veer

Technical Co—ordinator (Lights)

Prithvi Singh Negi

Govi n d S i n g h Yad av

Dee pi ka Si n ha

Music In charge

0'“ PrakaSh

Repertory Chief

Costume In charge

S u res h S h a rm a

C. S. B h a ti a

Sound technician
R. S. Gosain

D' rector NSD
Prof. Wa ma n Kend re

बदरंग प्रतिष्ठ है
यज्ञा-बी-यम-मस _.

