Sir Hugh Evans

ROBERT PUTT

Robert was born in Cleethorpes and trained at the East 15 Acting School between 1965-1968. Theatre
work includes the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal Court and the West End: Romeo and
Juliet and The Government Inspector both at the Old Vic (1979); Once in a Lifetime—RSC:
Overheard by Peter Ustinov and Seasons at Nottingham, Sheffield and Stratford East. Television
includes Coronation Street, Pennies from Heaven, The Jewel in the Crown, Return to Treasure

Island, Hercule Poirot, Prime Suspect and'riiany more . Film : It Shouldn 't Happen to a Vet, Porridge,
Hawk the Slayer, Lady Jane (director Trevor Nunn 1985), John Lennon and Yoko Ono, A Love

Story (Winfold Prods. 1985), Little Dorrit (Sands Films 1986), A Fish called Wanda (director John
Cleese—Prominent Features 1987), Treasure Island (MFS Films 1989).

He has appeared (with his dog Sally) in Catherine Cookson’s The Black Velvet Gown for Tyne Tees
TV, Geoffrey in Letters to the Navigator for Siren films due to be released in ’94, and for BBC Radio
Cleveland‘s soap, Charlie is Me Darling playing Charlie a struggling guest house owner.

Justice Shallow

Jack was born in Middlesbrough in 1948 and has been involved with Theatre one way or another for
over thirty years. Performances include Tommy in Breezeblock Park, Norman in The Dresser, Orin
in Little Shop ofHorrors and Charles Pooter in Keith Waterhouse’s hilarious comedy Mr & Mrs
Nobody at the wonderful Georgian Theatre Royal, Richmond.

JACK MCBRIDE

This is Robert's debut for Northern Broadsides.

Married with two kids to Jan, a writer, he is particularly interested in Northern playwrights and has
been involved for some time now with readings of new work.

टु

John was born in Halifax and trained at Mountview Theatre School. He graduated in July last year

_|

and made his professional debut in Northern Broadsides Richard III at the Riverside Studios, London

लें, h
2 %
I QC)

and the Albertslundhuset Theatre in Copenhagen. Having just finished filming an episode of
Heartbeat for Yorkshire Television, John is delighted to return to Northern Broadsides to play his
ﬁrst comic Shakespeare role.

Roy is a soccer fanatic and avidly supports Hull City. He is Honorary President of their Southern
Supporters Club. He is married to actress/writer Lesley North. Roy also performed with Northern
Broadsides in Richard III on tour and in London and Denmark.

fA V a

५५

If?" r _,r.

He has presented over 150 television programmes, but will be best remembered when he was Mr Roy
on The Basil Brush Show. For Granada TV he launched the popular teenage pop programme Get it
Together. As an actor he has appeared in Shoestring, The Brack Report, The Kenny Everett Show,
Bergerac and Colin’s Sandwich. Recently Roy has been touring with a variety of plays: Whodunnit,
The Haunting, Alphabetical Order, Move over Mrs Markham, Candida and Touch and Go, How the
other Half Loves , Charley ’s Aunt and Noises Off.

G e o rg 9 Pa0v e

Roy was born in Hull and began his career in repertory at Southworld, Harrogate, Hull and Leeds.
Since then, he has appeared in West End productions of Robert and Elizabeth; Canterbury Tales and
as Benjamin in the original production of Joseph and the Technicolour Dreamcoat. He then played
Joseph in several productions including one with the Scottish Opera. He has appeared as Claude in
the Amsterdam production of Hair.

ROY NORTH

है ल

