The Royal National Theatre : The Mysteries, The Crucible Guys and Dolls, The Oresteia, The Rivals,

Animal Farm, Martine, The Trackers Of Oxyryhnchus. Barrie is the Artistic Director and founder of

Born in Sheffield David received his training at Rose Bruford College of Speech and Drama during
1986-89. Theatre work: West Yorkshire Playhouse— The Revenger's Tragedy, Royal National
Theatre— Trackers of Oxyrhynchus , Action Transport Theatre Company—Shere Khan— The
Jungle Book, Liverpool Playhouse—— Twelfth Night, Chichester Festival Theatre— The Power and the
Glory, Royal Exchange Theatre , Manchester—She Stoops to Conquer. Television work includes
Brookside and Coronation Street.

Born in Oldham. Adam’s theatre credits include: Chester— Torch Song Trilogy; Coliseum,
Oldham —Privates on Parade; West Yorkshire Playhouse—Brighton Beach Memoirs. Television
credits include Brookside and Casualty. Film credits include The Magic Toyshop.
This is Adam’s debut for Northern Broadsides.

N ym / Fe nton

This is D avid ’ s debut with Northern B road sides .

ADAM WARREN

P i sto I

DAVID CRELLIN

Gary is originally from Leeds. After training at LAMDA he performed in the award winning play
Bread'n Butter Guns. Over the years he has toured with Two’s Company in comedy through the years
and has written and produced theatre on the London Fringe. Gary lived and worked in New York for
two years working extensively with the About Face Theatre Company. Recently he has worked with
the London New Play Festival and with BBC Radio. On film he played Sean in All Wrapped Up and
Nowhere to Go.

Bard 0 lp h

Northern B roa d si d e s .

GARY DUNNINGTON

Sir John Falstaff

BAR R|E BUTTER

Barrie Rutter was born in Hull and since leaving school in 1964 his acting career has stretched from
Hull to Helsinki, Bradford to Beijing, and includes film, television and radio but he is best described
as a ‘theatre animal” and has had his happiest moments on the stage, whether in the Cottesloe
Theatre, London or the ancient amphitheatre of Epidaurus in Greece. His theatre work includes for
the Royal Shakespeare Company: Henry IV, Henry V, Coriolanus, The Taming of the Shrew and for

