The Host of the Garter Inn

CONRAD NELSON

Conrad was born in Liverpool. His theatre work includes Oh What 3 Lovely War, Leicester
Hayrnarket; Up on the Roof, Plymouth Theatre Royal; Our Day Out, Chester Gateway; Goodbye
America, Eastern Angels; The Trackers of Oxyryhnchus, Royal National Theatre; As You Like it,
Cheek by Jowl; Coriolanus, Rennaisance Theatre and He Who Saw Everything, Royal National
Theatre. Conrad also appeared in The Bill, Piglet Files and Over the Rainbow for television. Films:
Dancin’ Thru the Dark; The Stranger and most recently Kenneth B ranagh‘s Much Ado about
Nothing. Conrad’s musical interests range from extensive thea‘tre, radio and television work to a
specialist vocal sound track for the RSC’s production of Hamlet.
Conrad also performed with Northern Broadsides in Richard III in London and Denmark.

Ishia was born in Hull. Recent theatre: Medea in Medea, Lilian Baylis-Sadlers Wells and tour;
Delfina in Miriarns Flowers, The Old Red Lion; Mdme. Therardier in Les Miserables, Nottingham
Playhouse; La Baronne in Turcaret, The Gate. Also: Elizabeth in Taking Steps, Bristol Old Vic;

2
ठे ड्डे
ड्डू .9

Kattrin in Mother Courage, Orange Tree; Rita in Educating Rita, Oxford Playhouse and national

z (हुँ

tour; Pauline in One For The Road, national tour. TV includes: April in Love Hurts; Guizin in

'5' g;

Eastenders; Tsarina in Storyteller; Ursula in Much Ado about Nothing; Ruth in Kessler; Ramilla in

< [1]

Bid for Power; Bread; A Tale of Two Cities; 1001 Nights. Films-King David; A nno Domini; The
Awakening; Jesus OfNazareth. Ishia produced Salaam Bute Town and worked as Assistant Producer

कु
2 2

Edward was born in Bradford and performed in numerous productions at The Bradford Playhouse
and Group Theater before leaving to train at Rose Bruford College.
Theatre: Seasons at Bolton, Hull, Liverpool, Leeds and Scarborough, Pillion (Bush Theatre), State of
Affairs (UK Tour). RSC: Blacksmith in Children of The Son, Vernish in The Plain Dealer, Lord
Hastings in The Plantagenets.

Television: All Creatures Great and Small, Dr Who, Truckers, Coast To Coast, Juliet Bravo, Minder,
Sweeney, Out, Comedians, The Jail Diaries of A lbie Sachs, By The Sword Divided, The Black
Madonna, Days at the Beach, Shogun. Voted Best Villain in Dr Who 1988. Film: The First
Kangeroos, Force 10 from Na vorone, Lassister, O ‘Lucky Man, Brittania Hospital, The Secret
Garden. Radio : All Night out with the Lady and Jerusalem was Built Here.

Fran k Ford

Lawrence was born in Manchester. His recent theatre work includes Arnold in Sue Wilson’s
production of Torch Song Trilogy (Chester Gateway). He has played Angelo in Measure for Measure
(Young Vic and Royal National Theatre Studio workshop productions), Felix in The Normal Heart
(Nottingham Palyhouse), Ian Brady in Listen Do You Want to Know a Secret (Inner City Theatre
Co.), Young Lol in Cider with Rosie (Sheffield Crucible), Malcolm in Macbeth (Dukes Playhouse,
Lancaster), Louis XIII in The Three Musketeers (Bristol Old Vic) and Silence in Lady Betty (Cheek
by Jowl). He has worked in Repertory at the Library Theatre Manchester, York, Clwyd, Milford
Haven and Bolton; and with Coventry and Leeds Theatre-in-Education Companies. At The Royal
National Theatre he was in The Trackers ofOxyrhynchus (also Laktismographer -Olivier Award
Choreographic Nomination) and Square Rounds. His co-Written play Lives Worth Living has recently
been published by Heinemann. As a choreographer his work includes Richard 111 (Northern
B roadsides) .

EDWARD PEEL

Doctor C ai u s

LAWRENCE EVANS

on Birmingham Wives and on Presumed Guilty with Vanson Wardle Productions for the BBC.
Ishia also played Queen Elizabeth with Northern Broadsides in Richard III on tour and in London
and Denmark.

More recent work on television includes The Bill, Underbelly, Heartbeat, Castle ofAdventure, Watt
on Earth, Flip, Berlin Break, PD James and At Her Majesty’s Pleasure and Jumping the Rug and The
Last Call on Radio.
Photographs by

Edward also performed with Northern Broadsides in Richard III on tour.

Nobby Clark

