Playing the fat man

It’s good to be playing the fat man again, I owe him
a debt! The photograph is from 1967- I was 20- the
Boars Head Tavern in Henry IV Part 1. Every
Falstaff must leave the stage “larding the earth ” and
soaked in sweat, it’s a very long scene. Having
staggered to the dressing room, turned the lights off,
opened windows and as many buttons as possible to get
air to the skin under the suit of padding, I’d gratefully
receive a tall glass of gin and tonic served by Michael
Croft the founder and director of the NY'I‘. He was
very much a Falstaff figure himself, and the glass of
refreshing liquid was accompanied by the homily “Ah
Barrie. all Falstaffs come to this … quiet con templa tion ' ’ .
Five days, two performances a day, ten large gin and
tonics and ten repeats of the phrase.

Meanwhile, I was sweating like a suet—pudding in the
1500 seat Scala Theatre twice daily wishing I could
wave a red and white scarf and sit on the terraces. The
padded suit dried on the boilers overnight so stepping
into it for the matinee was fine ', by the evening it was a
wet cold sponge and I couldn’t wait to get on stage
under the lights and warm it up. A wig, false eyebrows,
moustache, beard, make-up and costume completed
the picture and added to the discomfort. Cack-handed
application of spirit gum twice a day removed all my
natural eyebrows- the old trick of soaping them down
first was unknown to the young amateur: shaving was
necessity but a nightmare and I was left with a
month-long rash on jawline and chin. I complained to
everyone in earshot.

Michael Croft has been dead for eight years; the NYT
is in other good hands now, but I miss the old rascal.
And yet in 1967 I wished him ten thousand deaths. The

Eventually I was heard. Six months later 'I‘erson
produced his follow up play. It was a virtual monologue
by a character called Rutter in a dead end factory job; a
screaming tirade against the world and everyone in it.
When I asked him why it was so

previous year, 1966, I’d been in the cast of the NYT’s

ﬁrst modern play, Nipple in Little
Malcolm And His Struggle Against
The Eunuchs at the Royal Court.
The point all reviewers agreed on
(गावा"")
was what a pleasant change it was to
see the young actors of the Company
playing their own age, in a contemporary play
alongside the usual fare of Shakespeare. Obviously
Croft had to ﬁnd a successor. Enter Peter 'I‘erson with a
3 page idea for a character called Zigger Zagger, leader
of the football fans that supported Stoke City.
Naturally, being a northern lad with a healthy interest
in sport, fresh from my role in the first modern
production, brimming with self-conﬁdence and
expectation, the part was mine.

“I complained to

A call came and that much-imitated voice said “A little
supper Bam’el”. I don’t remember where we ate or
what we ate and drank just “You’re the only one who
can do Falstaff this year, there ’s no-one else in the

company I can entrust it to. ” And that was that. Oh, he
offered me the palliative of a location shift; Zigger was
to be moved from the Potteries to a red and white
stadium in London with accents to match. The transfer
was a brilliant theatrical success and a legend was born.

।की

(य8रि0१"

bleak he replied, “Verbatim. It’s

you. You ’ve been the most
miserable, truculent sod eversince
last year and unless you change,
that ’s the way it stays. It's still a good

play though I "
I changed. I had to.

Many re—writes and a large dose of warmth and humour
produced The Apprentices and I was launched into the
profession.
There’ll be a lot more generosity of spirit from me
towards Shakespeare and his fat creation 26 years later
in Merry Wives. I’ll still moan about wet padding on
matinee days, but there’ll be no sirens singing football
songs from next door; my eyebrows should remain
intact and I’ll be using my own hair and beard. But I’ll
miss the interval gin and tonic and the homily. I’ll miss
the man who served them. RIP Michael.

.5w क्या"
Barrie Rutter

