The Merry Wives of Windsor

A familiar theatrical tradition, first recorded by John Dennis
in 1702, insists that Shakespeare completed The'Merry Wives
of Windsor in fourteen days and upon Queen Elizabeth‘s
command. By 1709, Rowe develops this legend further to
claim that the Queen “was so well pleas‘d with that admirable
character of Falstaff, in the two parts of Henry the Fourth,
that she commanded him to continue it for the one play more,
and to shew him in love. “ There is little evidence to
substantiate the more extravagant conjectures of these early
eighteenth-century Shakespeareans Nevertheless, some lines
towards the end of the 1633 Folio text—the first “collected
works" of Shakespeare—suggest that The Merry Wives may
well have been commissioned by the court for a specific
occasion. These lines include instructions to the fairies
regarding the preparation of Windsor for a visit from the
Queen, and allude to ceremonies directly associated with the
Order of the Garter, Britain‘s highest order of chivalry.
Notably, one of the noblernen named for this honour in
1597—the date increasingly cited for the first performance of
The Merry Wives—was the second Lord Hunsdon,
Elizabeth’s Lord Chamberlain and official patron of
Shakespeare’s company. It is entirely conceivable that
Hunsdon may have encouraged his company’s greatest
playwright to produce a play commemorating the occasion.

It is often noted that the Falstaff of The Merry Wives is a less
sympathetic character than the Falstaff of the second history
cycle. Although this is debatable, Falstaff is arguably
required to play a subtly different set of roles in his two
theatrical manifestations. His sympathetic portrayal in the
history plays relies, at least to some extent, upon the rejection
he suffers from Hal. Falstaff’s subsequent death in Henry V,
according to the Hostess” diagnosis, occurs because “The
King has killed his heart. ” This wronged Falstaff belongs to a
lineage of older male figures in Shakespeare—such as the two
A nton ios in Twelfth Night and The Merchant of Venice
respectively, and the poet of the Sonnets—who are
renounced by their young male companions due to the
imperatives of respectability and romantic love.
The reincarnated Falstaff of The Merry Wives bears few scars
from the sufferings of his previous dramatic life. Although
human in his folly, this Falstaff is transformed into the agent
of wronging against women in a play where, as the title
indicates, the comic advantage correctly belongs to the
wives—of Windsor, or wherever else. Falstaff‘s mistaken
view of his own desirability is duly undermined in the course
of the play. He is also punished, albeit comically, for his
mercenary view of the women he attempts to seduce. “I will
be cheaters to them both”, he observes before his fall, “and

Notwithstanding the possibility that The Merry Wives was
“occasioned” by the court, the play itself deals with ordinary
middle-class people who live on the periphery of courtly
culture. It is about the rough and tumble of innkeepers,
hostesses, tipsy practical jokes, doctors, country magistrates
and other common citizens. And it is dominated by the
carnivalesque figure of Sir John Falstaff, the anarchic reveller
whose behaviour contravenes all ideals of courtly decorum
and chivalry.
It is worth recalling F'alstaff’s earlier incarnation in the Henry
IV plays, where he is represented as the Lord of Eastcheap
who draws Ha] out of Windsor into the chaotic environment
of tavern»citadels. The Merry Wives has a noticeable tonal
and atmospheric relationship to Shakespeare’s second history
cycle, but it is unique among his comedies for its English
setting and for its focus, via Falstaff and his gang, on the
modalities of'bourgeois existence. Its quality of immediacy
and its colloquialisrn are further sustained by its more or less
consistent use of prose and local provincial idiom. For these

they shall be exchequers to me: they shall be my East and
West Indies, and I will trade them both.” The wives have the

last laugh.

Another male character duly baited by the women in the play
is Ford, the “humourous” archetype of the jealous husband.
Shakespeare was to critique the dangerous and violent
potential of male jealousy throughout his subsequent career,
in plays like Much Ado about Nothing, The Winter’s Tale,
Cymbeline and, most seriously, in Othello. Although Ford’s
jealousy never assumes tragic proportions, he comes
uncomfortably close to Othello-like violent imaginings: “Well
I will take him, then torture my wife. "

The Merry Wives resists the misogyny implicit in F'alstaff’s
lechery and in Ford’s jealousy. Women, the play gently
suggests can neither be possessed nor contained by the foolish
egotism of male desire. The Merry Wives is really a play
about the solidarity of women. As Ford says about Mistress
Page and his wife : “I think, if your husbands were dead, you
two would marry. ”

reasons, critics tend to regard The Merry Wives as a

Shakespearean city or citizen comedy of the type that was
written by Marston, Jonson and Middleton towards the
beginning of the seventeenth—century.

LEE LA G AND HI
DELHI UNIVERSITY

