front portions of the stage looked quite attractive and artistic.
(2-36-38,66,67)
There was a solid brick wall between the dais and the
decor-room, which had two doors on either side of the dais
(2/65,72). The actors entered through these doors from the decor-room to the dais. On the southern and northern sides of the
dais there used to be three pillars in a row (as per Abhinava-

gupta’s commentary on verse 2—71). Out of these the two pillars
near the wall and the two pillars in the middle were used to
suggest a terrace on upper ﬂoor; a gallery, a palace etc. The
palace in the play ‘Ratnavali’ or the terrace in the play ‘Mrucchakatik’ used to be shown at this place. The middle pillars in
the dais and the pillars near the stage gave access to the space
to the dais. This space was also used to indicate the boundary.
All these pillars were highly decorated.

The height of both the stage and ‘A/Iattawarani’ was about
two and half feet from the ground (2/67,68) .
All the walls of the Theatre were deeply coated with lime
and silica and these walls were all decorated with various pic-

tures and scene (2,87-89) .
The large Theatre of the style was 162 by 81 feet. The stage
too was spacious and on it were presented performances (productions) like ‘Dim’ and ‘Samavakar’ which were quite resounding. On the small type of the kind of Theatre farces and ‘Bhan’
were produced. Both these types of plays and also some other
types could be staged in the Theatre which measured 120 by
60 feet. In the large type of the Theatre the voices of the actors
sometimes proved to be inadequate and the audience too found
in difﬁcult to see the acting of the actors. Bhamtmuni himself
preferred the Medium-size Theatre. “In the Large-type of the
Theatre the actor’s tone might become pervert and his acting
too cannot be properly seen by the audience. Hence the Mediumsize Theatre would be better in which both the music and the
dialogues could be heard quite distinctly" (2-22’- 9 24) .

The opinion of some of the western scholars (experts) that
these Theatres were not of a permanent nature is wrong. These
Theatres were of a permanent nature and construction. There
4

