and plotted for its overthrow. Ghana/{ya met Chandragtzpm, an
illegitimate child of the king who suffered at the hands of the
ruling Nandas. He promised to assist Chandragupta in securing
the throne.

Chanakya induced a tribal king Parvata/za to rise in arms
against the Nandas by promising half of the kingdom. They
won the war. All the Nandas were killed. But their very faithful
chief minister Rakshasa escaped.

Rakshasa in an attempt to kill Chandragupta sent a poison
maid. Chanakya learnt about it and diverted her to Parvataka’s
camp. Pamataka died as soon as he touched her. Parvataka’s son
Malayaketu got scared thinking Chanakya had intentionally killed his father and sought refuge with Rakshasa. Rakshasa promised Malayaketu the kingdom after dethroning Chamz’ragupta.
Chanakya got worried. He respected Raks/zasa and realised
that the newly granted sovereignty of Chandragupia could not
be made secure until he got Rakshasa on to Chandragupta’s
side. His purpose was accomplished through a signet ring
of Rakshasa coming into the possession of Chtmalzya—hence
the title “MUDRARAKSHASA”. All the plots he devises in
order to defeat the machinations of his adversary Rakshasa are
not for self-gain or for other petty motives but in order to
consolidate the power of his king Chandragupta.
The importance of staging the play today lies in the fact
that while it fully retains its classic frame it has a genuine
contemporary ring enriched by many oblique hints of our own
times or, indeed, of times when human beings are confronted
by conﬂicts which they do not necessarily solve wisely.
In this context, it is worth noting that Vishakhadatla does
not portray Chanakya as a war-monger. Far from it, he takes

his clue from the principles laid down by Kautilya in his Arthushast'm. The craft of politics, according to this sage, can follow
six paths. Of these war is one, but only to be followed in the
last resort and that, too, not as an end but as a means. Towards
this end, severe limitations on the use of this instrument are

laid down in the Art/mshastm, and Chanakya is an embodiment

of the restraint which such a policy involves.
8

