been arrested by Ghana/{ya on a suspicion of being involved in
the attempts on the life of Chandragupta. In the meanwhile,
Sakatadasa has been rescued by Siddharthaka and brought to
Rakshasa. Rakshasa takes off some ornaments from his person
and gives them as a reward to Siddharthaka. (These ornaments
were given to Rakshasa by his ally, prince Malayaketu, and will

be referred to further). Siddhm‘thaka outwardly takes service
under Rakshasa while inwardly he remains Chanakya’s spy.

Act II Scene 1: Ghana/{ya secretly arranges a sham quarrel
with Chandragupta, meant as a ruse to mislead Rakshasa. A ﬁne
scene ensues between them in which the monarch reproves
Chanakya and the latter taunts him as being ungrateful and
insolvent. Chanakya resigns ofﬁce and leaves the king in high
dungeon, and the king also proclaims that he would rule
independently of him — thus to all appearance that they are
thoroughly estranged.

Act II Scene 2: The news of the (feigned) quarrel is brought
by Rakshasa’s agent to his master who is highly pleased at it
and believes that it would be easier to overthrow Chandra. Now
that he has no longer Chanakya to advise him. In the meantime
illalayaketu, accompanied by Bhagumyana, comes to see Rakshasa. Bhag. seizes this opportunity to create a suspicion about
Rak.’s sincerity in his master’s mind by telling him that Rakshasa is not so much the foe of Chandragupta, and in case Chan.
was somehow dismissed, there would be nothing to prevent him

from allying himself with Chandmgupta. Malayaketu overhears
the conversation between Rak. and his agent, who advises him
to lead an expedition against Pataliputra at once.

Act III Scene 1: The scene now shifts to the camp of Malayaketu near Chandragupta’s capital. One Jivasiddhi, who was
known as a friend of Rakshasa but was really a spy of Cha-

nakya, enters into the presence of Bhagumyana, Mala.’s Minister,
ostensibly with a request for a permit to leave the camp. When
pressed to give the reason for doing so, he says he is disguested
with the conduct of Rak. and wants to leave him before it is too
late. Malayaketu is overbearing Jiva.’s speech. and the latter sue-ceeds in poisoning the mind of the prince against Rak. by his
allegation that it was Rak. and not Chan, who employed the
10

