poisonniaid against Malayas father and killed him. After he
has left, the guards bring in Siddharthaka, whom they had

caught leaving the camp without a permit on the plea that he
was a servant of Rak. On his person are found that old letter
which Chan. had given him (in Act I) and a box of ornaments.
both sealed with Rak.’s seal. The letter is couched in such
terms as incriminate Rak. while the ornaments are easily recognised by [Malaya/zeta to be the same that he had formerly given
to Rakshasa. So it was apparently clear that Rak. was in secret
communication with Chandra, which deduction is further cor-

roborated by the oral testimony of Siddharthaka. M/hen charged
with treachery, Rak. denies it in toto as being the fabrication
of the enemy. But he is at a loss to explain the fact of the letter
being in the handwriting of his friend Sakatadasa. Malaya. taxes
him with having murdered his father by means of the poisoninaid. All his circumstantial evidence completely overwhelms
Rak, whom Malaya. now disowns and who thus ﬁnds himself

without an ally.
Act III Scene 2: Malayaketu’s expedition proves a failure
owing to dissensions among his own followers, and he is taken
captive by Bhag'm‘ayana, Bhadrabhata and others.
Rakshasw
goes to Pataliputra to save his friend Chandandasa who was

ordered to be impaled by Channkya for sheltering his (Rak.’s)
family.
Act III Scene 3: Chandanadasa is being led to the place of
execution by the Chandalas. Rakshasa arrives on the scene; he
announces himself to the Chandalas who take him into the

presence of Chanakya. The latter explains to him how all his
plans, including the forged letter, were intended to bring matters to that particular culmination, it being his (Chanakya’s)

desire to induce Rak. to take up the post of the chief minister
of Chandragupta. After some hesitation Rakshasa accepts it, the
life of his friend Chandandasa is saved, and all ends happily

as originally designed by Chanakya.
In the current production of Mudmraksham an attempt
has been made to maintain the essential elements of stage of
Bharata’s concept making cl‘ianges only where they were thought
i ncvitable.
ll

