in the universe. The Poorvamimamsa, therefore, stresses the importance of

the practice and scrupulous observance of Vedic rituals if Man is to ascend
to heaven. Thus, in contrast to the Upanishads and the Uttaramimamsa, the
Poorvarnimamsa ignores concept of ’Moksha’ or Ultimate Liberation and
embraces the concept of Swargaprapti or the attainment of heaven.
Similarly, in pursuance of the same contrast, it gives precedence to the
Karmamarga over the Jnanamarga.
It is, then, easy to see why tradition holds that the Jaimini who first
enunciated the philosophy of the Poorvamimamsa was also the Jaimini
who wrote a Mahabharata whose Ashwamedhika parva alone has come
down to us under the name of [aimini Bharata. Both the Jaiminis gave
importance not to the Jnanamarga, not to knowledge but to, the philosophy
of surrender. The Poorvamimamsa upholds surrender to and through
rituals as a way to empowerment while the Iaimini Bharata upholds
submission to the Godhead through Bhakti, and thereby promises
salvations .

Lak'shmeesha and his Bharata
It is generally accepted now that Lakshmeesha was born sometime in the
first half of 16th century AD. and that he belonged to and lived in the
village of Devanuru in Kadur taluk of the district of Chickamagalur.
He was probably a Vaishnavaite and his version, in Kannada, of the Iaimini
Bharata is steeped in his philosophy of the Bhagavatha darma and the
Bhaktimarga. Lakshmeesha’s ’Bharata’ is written in the Vardhaka Shatpadi
(a popular six line stanza format) and his verse is reputed for its wordrnusic and its sonorous quality. He has in fact, been called Nadalola
Lakshmeesha by DR. Bandre, the great Kannada poet of our century.
Lakshrneesha’s capacity for story-telling in verse is indeed superb and his
characterisation of the protagonists of the various stories and epics is done
skilfully and feelingly so as to exemplify and propagate the philosophy of
Haribhakti .
Lakshmeesha is at his best when narrating the story of Chandrahasa and
Shri K.V. Puttappa’s play is based on Lakshmeesha’s telling of the story so
much so that Shri Puttappa has reproduced entire passages straight form
Lakshmeesha’s poetic epic.

