enough to be polite with Chandrahasa. He now hatches a new plot to kill
the youngman. He sends Chandrahasa to the Kali temple alone and on the
pretext that newly married groom should offer puja to Kali according to
custom. He has his murderers hiding in wait for Chandrahasa there.
Meanwhile the king of Kuntala has been advised by brahmins that his
death is near at hand and that all the omen and stars indicate that he should
marry his daughter Champakamalini off to none other than Chandrahasa.
Fate has it that it is Madana (who does not know of his father’s evil designs)
who bears the king’s message to Chandrahasa to come to the royal palace
that very moment. Madana, in fact, offers to do the Kalipuja in place of
Chandrahasa and dispatches him to the king. Madana in a terrible mockery
of his father’s dreams and designs, is murdered by Dushtabuddhi’s agents
who mistake him for Chandrahasa.
Dushtabuddhi sacrifices himself to Kali in grief and it is Chandrahasa’s
goodness and bhakti that brings Madana and his father back to life

Seminal Performers
It is the Mahaganapathi Yakshagana Mandali of Idagunji village in the
Uttara Kannada district which deserves credit for having performed the
definitive version of the Yakshagana ’Charzdrahasa’. It was also this
company that performed ’Chandrahasa’ the largest number of times. Its
record on this score has been unsurpassed to this day. Shri Keremane

Shivarama Hegade, the leading light of the company, and his colleague and
contemporary became household names in Uttara Kannada for their
portrayal of Dushtabuddhi.
Shri Keremani Mahabale Hegade who grew up under the tutelage of Shri
Shivarama Hegade also became famous for his portrayal of Dushtabuddhi.
His Dushtabuddhi, Keremani Gajanane Hegade’s Vishaya, and Keremane
Shambhu Hegade’s Madana all formed part of an extremely popular and
moving performance time and again. And supporting the performances of
these actors of Uttara Kannada were Hasyagare Kunjalu Ramakrishna (who
played the fool) and Shiriyara Manju Nayiri (who played Chandrahasa) of
Dakshina—Kannada. Together these actors of the two Kannada districts have
given the Yakshagana ’Chandmhasa’ a permanent place in the hearts of all
Yakshagana lovers.
G u ru raja Ma rapa ll1'

