My portrayal of ’Dushtabuddhi’ in Yakshagana
[Shri Hegade, one of the finest actors of the Yakshagana stage, taught the
students of the NSD at Mysore and Udupi through demonstrations of
Yakshagana abhinaya.
It is thirty years since I began playing Dushtabuddhi in the ’Chandrahasa
prasanga’. In the beginning I played the role the same way as others did
before me. But then one question always haunted me: was it ever possible
for a real person to be named Dushtabuddhi? Somebody, moreover, who is
the Chief Minister of a whole kingdom? Then when I read the story of
Chandrahasa as narrated by Lakshmeesha in his epic poem ’[aimihi
Bharata’, I noticed something significant. When Chandrahasa comes to
Kuntala, none of the porters at any of the seven gates that surround the city
allows him in except one. The porter at this seventh gate who does finally
let him in is named Viveka. This Viveka before allowing Chandrahasa in,

approaches Madana, who at that moment is the acting Chief Minister of
Kuntala, for his permission to do so. The stanza which narrates this part of
the story begins with the line.
And Viveka of the Seventh Gate went forth.
This stanza prompted me to begin thinking of the significance of the name
’Dushtabuddhi’ in a new way. I began to understand that the story of
Chandrahasa was an elaborate metaphor or allegory and not something
’real’ (in the sense of being ’history’).

Chandrahasa is son to king Madhavi. His foster-mother (or rather nanny) is
named Sheela. The real king of Kuntala is the old and weak Subuddhi
whose powers are being usurped by his scheming minister Dushtabuddhi.
Dushtabuddhi’s son is named ’Madana’ and his daughter, ’Vishaya’.
I could thus see that the names of the main characters in this story as well
as, given their names, what happens to these characters as the story
progresses and reaches a denouement, signified quite a lot. 80 I tried to
portray my Dushtabuddhi as a man bereft of any noble emotion, as a
heartless man, as the epitome of all that is evil and cruel. But after a while,
my mind was troubled by a certain anxiety. What if the cruelty, the violence

the deceit, the chicanery, the conspiratorial bent of mind that took
possession of my being when I was playing this role, what if these evil
emotions and qualities were to gradually take root and begin to grow in my
real life and real self, too? I therefore developed and began playing the
Character in the following manner. When Dushtabuddhi rises from the
dead, thanks to Chandrahasa’s prayer to Goddess Chandika. I began to
show him as a person transformed: my Dushtabuddhi now turned into a
Subuddhi, as it were. Further, as this Dushtabuddhi - Subuddi I would
exclaim that, sinful wretch that I was, I did not deserve to live and would

gladly accept the death sentence. I would then tell Chandrahasa that the
new lease of life that was given to me was a result of the kindness of his
noble and ‘satvi’ soul. I would then go on to say that kindness of the soul
and spiritual growth matter as much as growth of the intellect. If man

