’Chandrahasa’. It was not his intention to present ’Chandrahasa’ in the
original Yakshaana style but to familiarize the form to the students to suit
their previous training and regional theatre ethos, he told us.

Even the script was not ready in the beginning. We prepared to adapt

ourselves to the style and temperament of this all time great theatre
personality. He used to provide the script in piece-meal form, which
created confusion and controversy. Here in the this stage we gained lot of
experience separately in each department; design students confined to
making sets, costumes and properties etc. and the acting students mugging
up their lines and pretending as characters. This was quite an experience as
no technician or carpenter of the NSD came to our help. This alienation of

us from the technical web of the NSD infused self-confidence amongst us.
Despite the late night rehearsals and the usual last minute tensions, the staff
of Rangayana stood with us whole-heartedly which boosted our morale a
lot. But for them we should have been in a difficult predicament. We also
gratefully remember at this state Shri Mahabala Hegade, the veteran
Yakshagana artiste who exhibited his style of ’Chandrahasa’, from which
Karanthji improvised his script for us. This helped us a great deal in
evolving Our own methods and style. We also cannot forget the help
rendered by Srinivasa Bhat and Bhooshan Bhat, coordinators throughout
our Karnataka tour. Shri Vijayapal Vashisht of the NSD deftly managed all
financial and administrative matters.

This was the first time, we all undertook a study tour in all its seriousness.
All the petty bickerings, tensions and ill-feelings were wiped out towards
the end of the ’Chandrahasa’ demonstration. And whatever we have gained
out of this tour, particularly from Karanthji and Dr. Shivarama Karanth,
will remain in our hearts in the years to come. When we bade farewell to
Rangayana on the night of the 14th we felt the theatre nucleus of twenty
plus the Rangayana Repertory was centrifugalling to different directions of
India. And after loitering on the 15th at the garden city, Bangalore, we all
boarded to the beats of Indian Railways.

