, . . . . . . :.:.: . . :. .:. .1:2, ‘
§

- ८ HAK‘
KA’I

रूब्दिड्डिद्रत्माष्टहु

क्या

Its Evolution

c हुँff ‘क्या-~ —

The literal meahingof 16;.2.1:.:....1.:..12.:9....0) e story teller' and the earliest reference
to the art of Kathak is found in Mahabharata, the great epic poem written about
5th century B.C. In the Aadi Parva (1 st Chapter) of the Mahabharata the following
quotation is found :

कधाकाश्चापरे राजन् श्रमणश्च वनोकस:
दिंव्याख्यानानि ये चापि पाति मधुर द्विज.:
(Oh. King, the others are KATHAKA-s, sharmana-s and
forest dwelling ascetics who sweetly recite the divine stories)

It is evident from the above quotation that in the earliest phase of its
development Kathak was a kind of mimetic art in which mythological stories were
presented. The other references indicate that the stories were exclusively drawn from

the Krishna legend. Most probably the versified stories were being sung with
appropriate abhinaga and embellished with abstract dance passages. How also there
are a few Kathauachaka-s in some areas of Uttar Pradesh who continue the ancient
tradition. At this early phase, the art of Kathak was basically mimetic art in which
abhinaga dominated and it had deep religious associations.

During the medieval period, i.e., around 15th or 16th century AD. Kathak
took a sharp turn and began evolving as a classical dance style. At this period it
received enthusiastic patronage from royal nobilities belonging to both Hindu and
Muslim communities. In the royal courts it acquired a good deal of sophistication,
especially in l‘lritta, the abstract dance passages. The secular elements in Kathak
were emphasized and the dance style drew inspiration increasingly from percussion
music. The anklebells tied to the dancer's feet became more and more articulate.
What was initially a mimetic art turned into a classical dance style predominantly
of rhythmic character. Because of the dominance of the drum music, Kathak acquired

a sparkling character and required the dancer to be a virtuoso in footwork through
long and arduos practice.

Right from the beginning until the fourth decade of this century Kathak
was being performed mostly solo and generally before a compact audience. When
it started being presented on proscenium stages in large theatre halls, some changes
in presentational techniques were required. Experimentation with group numbers and
dance-dramas in Kathak style proved successful and popular. This recent

development has encouraged innovative work in the field of Kathak and the Kendra

६९

has done consistent and leading work in group compositions. While the solo
performance makes manifest the classical character of the dance style, the group
compositions give an idea of the contemporary innovative endeavour in the field
of Kathak.
JIWA N PA NI

