Kendra ' 5 Festivals
पै

भै

The Kendra has found from its experience that holding festivals is one of
Kendra
the most effective promotional activities. More than a decade ago the
gurus and
organised a seminar on Kathak dance, which was attended by all known
is like
foreranking dancers of the style. They were of the opinion that the Kendra
g.
'the temple of Kathak' and it should give reasonable opportunities to the deservin
every year
The Kendra has lived up to the expectation and now holds four festival
country
in which Kathak dancers, both young and more experienced from all over the
participate.

Until 1984 the Kendra was holding only two annual festivals. The most
held during
important festival is popularly known as the 'Jayanti F'estiual’. It is
to the
Bowing
days.
February/March every year. lnitially, it was being held for two

popular demands it is now a four-day-long festival. The other festival is named
’Dikshantotsaua’. In fact, the prOgramme presented at the festival is mainly for
evaluation of the achievements of the Kendra's students as solo performers. lt is
an essential part of the examination and celebrates the completion of a phase of
training at the Kendra.
Since the innovative work in the field of Kathak has gained enough
momentum, and many a young dancer finds it very difficult to have a platform to
show their talent, the Kendra decided to organise another festival so that the promising
dancers get opportunity to dance with more experienced dancers. Thus from 1984
the Kendra has started holding the Saraccandrika (शररून्दिका) Festival in September/
October every year. In order to give stage experience to the students under training

the Kendra has been organising annual Chhatr'otsaua since 1990.
Mostly solo performances are presented in the Saraccandrika festival.

९

पि

Dancers from all over the country are invited to participate in the festival. At times
the festival is given a focus. Year before the last the focus was on expressional
numbers based on well known thumris rendered by eminent vocalists. Last year,
the focus was on Pakhawaj accompaniment and expressional numbers based either
on a Dhrupad or Dharnan song. This year the 'PARAH' intraform is in focus.

