26TH OCTOBER
SATYA HARI‘HCHANDRA
A Play in Hindi
Script ; Bharatendu Harishchandra
Director : Parvez Akhtar'
Presented by ; I .P.T .A., Patna

SYNOPSIS
In our age, the ordeals which a truthful man has to face if he
wants to keep his cominittment with truth—i3 the main theme of this play.
The play is based upon a popular myth about a Suryavanshi
king of Ayodhya, named Harishchandra, who is committed to truth

and noble causes. For this truth, he gives up his Kingdom as Dan to
SatntVisvvamitra has a part of conspiracy by kings of God, Indra.
To manage Dakshina, Shaivya beloved wife of. Harischandra,
sells herself at Kashi.
Harishchandra also sells himself & becomes slave of a Cha n dal .
Harishchandra now keeps guard in a ShmaEhan ( eemetry).
He does not allow his wife Shaivya to perform a funeral of their

son Rohitashva without paying the half cloth from the dead body as
he is entrusted to do so.

DIRECTOR‘S NOTE
This production of ‘Satya Harischandra’ is a re-interpretation of
myth to explore our epoch by skillfully blending the _ folk f01‘m of North
—Bihar, the traditional Hindi and the classical Sanskrit devices. ५
The play has been written more than hundred years ago. The
dialogues are in formative Khari—Boli style ; whereas the songs. Manglacharn and lyrics are in Braj-Bhasha, Poorvi and Sanskrit
The Kat'nagayan, inspired from Keertania of Mithilaregion,

has been introduced and creatively intermixed in the total structure of
the play. The narrative dialogues of keertania are based on the
prastawana (Prologue) and upakram (Preface) of the play itself

This device adds a new dimension to the play and also develops itself
as the matrix of the total structure of the production.
The style of acting, dialogue delivery, movements, costumes props
and other visuals are stylized in traditional / e inventional forms to create
the dramatic illusion and environment as well. The play would utilize
the traditional

styles of presentation; motif, pietorialness of the frame.

colour symbolism. minimum setting. simple layout of scenic design; stylized acting methodology : using various r‘nudras. padasanchalan and
other arigika and vachika acting devices But the enmhasis would
be on re—interpreting the theme through creative exploitation or these

traditional / conventional styles with an experimental modern out-look.

CAST & CREDITS
Indra — Sandeep Mukherji नि: Dwarpal/Bhairav/Gana —Abhijeet Sarkar
८८८ Narad/Gana — Tanvir Akhtar Shaivya — Shampa Ghosh Saheli ~Sonal
Harishehandra ~ Monoj Verma नी.
Jha बनी Brahinan/Pap—— Sunil Jamuar
l‘v’lantri/Devata Vinod Ku'nar * Paricharik-l/Gana——Arwind Kumar Gupta
Parieharik-Z/Gana Pawan Kumar Singh * Upadhyay/Gana— Rajcsh Kumar है":".
Dharam / Chandal
Batulg—Arwind Kumar Gupta * Rohitashva ——« Rahul
Sudhir Pathaki‘ Anoehar —Pawan Kumar Singh * Mahavidya —.\loopur Daak
Crowd —— unil. Sonal, Vinod,
_pankai Kumar Daakin ~— Meenal Jha

etc. की Mukhya Keertania — Dilip Sinha
Sunil Kishore नीच 3 —Sanjoy

Keertania-l—Kaushai Mishra 2.

Kumar के Stage Management—~Sudhir Kumar

Sinha है:-, Make—up & lights — Tanvir Akhtar Cu.;tume & set —Parvez Akhtar
Music -Dilip Sinha *Choreography—Pankaj Kunzar प्र: Props-Apoorvanand

* F. O. H. — Shaileshwar Sari Prasad

Design —- Parvez Akhtar

