to provide the spectator a profound
sensation of fear and mystery while
saying, and doing simple things
without much theatrical ado. They
cannot even depend directly in this
play on their main weapon, their
presence for they are severely
restricted in giving too much reality
to the characters. If they do that, we
are all doomed because the audience
then will be watching a not very
realistic play. On the other hand, if
they move away entirely from the
speciﬁcity of the character they
might end up doing nothing, which

there is no escape. He must learn to
do it.
The others: Anna Bi, the two con-

stables, Miss Tarafdar, and that son
of a bitch, the uncle, infact all, includ-

ing the stinking Raghupati have a
very definite problems of their own.
The unconventional structure of my
play allows them, in most cases, just
ONE appearance (of course, they all
return in the finale but that is a different problem). Therefore they have
no room to show the ”gradual
development of the character”, they
are there already developed, just

virtually means no performance.
delivered from the womb, fully

What then must they do?
As far as Joseph is concerned, he
must consciously make use of his

duality. In a certain times his
presence should be followed by his
sudden mental absence. This he
should actualize through an effort to
see clearly within himself at speciﬁc
moments in his performance. The effect that we need is; he is now there

and now not there. I mean there is no
speciﬁc place where he could rest.
His PRESENCE is constantly beset
by his ABSENCE or its opposite.
That this is complex is clear, but

grown and made-up. During their
brief enounter with Joseph (and the
audience) they have to:- a) establish
their whole life, b) add a speciﬁc line
in the partly checked portrait of
Josheph and c) push him several
steps closer to his end. And they
must do something additional—
they must light-up the stinking corrupt—to the core system, in which
we are all enmeshed.
In short: they appear, shine and, as it
were, extinguish.

MOHAN MAHARISHI

