EXCERPTS FROM THE DIARIES OF FRANZ KAFKA 1910-23

1910. ”All those things, that is to say,
those things which occur to me,
occur to me not from the root up but
rather only from somewhere about

their middle. Let someone then attempt to seize them, let someone at-

tempt to seize a blade of grass and
hold fast to it when it begins to grow
only from the middle.”

tionate, I often had forebodings and
fears, founded on triﬂing occurences,

that F. did not love me very much,
not with all the force of the love she
was capable of. F. has now realized
this too, though not without my assistance. I am almost afraid that after
my last two visits F. even feels a certain disgust for me...

1912, 2 January ... as a result I let the

1914, 27 May. Mother and sister in

awful clothes affect even my posture,
walked around with my back
bowed, my shoulders drooping, my
hands and arms at awkward angles,
was afraid of mirrors because they
showed in me an ugliness which in
my opinion was inevitable ...

Berlin. 1 shall be alone with my

1912, 31 January. Wrote nothing.
Weltsch brings me books about
Goethe that provoke in me a distracted excitement that can be put to
no use ...
1912, 5 March. ”These revolting doc-

father in the evening. I think he is
afraid to come up. Should I play
cards (Karten) with him? (I find the
letter K offensive, almost disgusting,
and yet I use it; it must be very characteristic of me.) How Father acted
when I touched F.
1914, 6 June. Back from Berlin. Was

tied hand and foot like a criminal.
Had they sat me down in a corner

bound in real chains, placed
policemen in front of me, and let me
look on simply like that, it could not

tors! Businesslike, determined and so

ignorant of healing that, if this

have been worse. And that was my

businesslike determinations were to

engagement...

leave them, they would stand at sick-

1914, 6 August. What will be my fate

beds like schoolboys. I wished I had

as a writer is very simple. My talent

the strength to found a nature- cure

for portraying my dreamlike inner
life has thrust all other matters into
the background...

society . ..”
1913, 19 December. Letter from F.

1914, 14 December. My work goes

Beautiful morning, warmth in my
blood.

forward at a miserable crawl...

1913, 20 December. No letter.

1914, 23 December. Read a few

pages of Herzen’s ’Fogs of London’.
1914, 9 March. I couldn’t marry then;
Had no idea what it was all about,

everything in me revolted against it,
much as I always loved F...
In the course of a long correspondence I had alarmed F. By my

and yet the whole of the unconscious
man emerged, purposeful, self-tormenting, having himself ﬁrmly in
hand and then going to pieces again...

peculiarities, and these now seemed

1916, 2 June. What a muddle I’ve

to make her uneasy. Now when
everything must be cleared up, I can
confess that even at the time when
our relationship was at its most affec-

been in with girls, inspite of all my
headaches, insomnia, grey hair,

despair. Let me count them: there
have been at least six since the sum-

