THE REPERTORY COMPANY

The Repertory Company of the
National School of Drama is a performing group of players and technicians who have graduated from
the School in the past years.
Formed in 1964 with just four actors, the Company was started on
an experimental basis by Shri E.

past years its repertoire has also
included foreign plays in translations and adaptations. Some examples: Brecht’s Caucasian Challk
Circle, . Three Penny Opera and Pu n-

Alkazi, the Director of the School

Osborne’s Look Back in Anger;
Bond’s The Fool; Chekhov’s Uncle
Vanya and Cherry Orchard;
I’irandello’s Six Characters in
Search of An Author; Istvan
Orkeny’s Totek; Rostand’s Cyrano
de Bergerac, Goldoni’s The Servant
of Two Masters; Saroyan’s The Cave
Dwellers; and Bernard Shaw’s Pyg—
malio n.
The Company is based in New
Delhi, where it gives regular performances. It has a Studio Theatre
and a beautiful Open-Air Theatre.
The latter is one of the best of its

till the late 1970’s and a dynamic
theatre personality who had a
major hand in nurturing and ex-

panding the Company over the
years.
In 1977, when the Company acquired the status of National

Repertory, Shri Manohar Singh
took over as its Chief and carried
its activities across the nation, the

foundation for which had been
laid by Shri E. Alkazi. Since the

early 19705 the Company has
produced a rich variety of plays
that range from stylised musicals
to realistic contemporary works. A
few examples: Tughlaq, Andha Yug,
Chhote Saiyed Bade Saiyed, Pa nchva n
Savar, Rasgandharva, Surya Ki

A ntirn Kiran Se Surya ki Pehli Kiran
Tak, Charpai, Sa inya n Bhaye Kotwal,
Adhe Adhure, Sandhya Chhaya,
Iasma Odan, Mattaoilas, Kath Ki

Gadi, Virasat, Mashriqu Hoor, Main
Ladli Maina Teri Pagla Ghoda, etc.
The Repertory has worked with
a variety of directors from India
and abroad. Besides using the best
available scripts the Company has
also successfully dramatised and
produced a few novels and short
stories in Hindi such as Teen Ekant,
Begum Ka Takia, Mukhya Ma ntri,
Mahabhoj, Mitro Marjani. In the

tila

and

His

Man

Matti;

Shakespeare’s Othello and Macbeth; Moliere’s School for Wives;

kind, situated in natural surround-

ings readily adaptable to different
environments and thus enriching
a different style of productions
which have been staged here.
One of the remarkable contribu—
tions of the Company’s activities
which has given a new dimension
and opened a new avenue for the
Indian theatre is the use of historical monuments and ruins like Pinjor

Garden,

Chandigarh,

Forozeshah Kotla, 'I‘alkatora Garden and I’urana Quila and Delhi

for its landmark productions like
Andha Yug,Tughlaq, Sultan Razia,
etc.

Apart from performing in Delhi
the Company undertakes extensive tours to different parts of

