THEATRE

er
Ibsen takes centre stage
Actor and singer Ila Arun talks about the enduring relevance of
Henrik Ibsen plays and their significance for today’s audience
RINI MUKKATH
रे

‘ju'

प

I

MUMBAI: Often referred to as the
father of realism in literature,
Norwegian playwright Henrik
Ibsen still makes his way into
stages across the world. The

‘i
u

Ibsen theatre festival (season
2) came to Murnbai last week
at the Experimental Theatre at
the National Centre ' for the
Performing Arts.
Nils Ragnar Kamsvag, the

Ambassador of Norway to India, told The Hindu, “New

generations should get the
chance to meet Ibsen. For
those of us who know him,
new performance often adds

to our understanding of the
plays and/or our interpretations of them, also coloured by
time and place. Ibsen had an

ability to explore topics which
are timeless and borderless.
“The challenges that India
_ faces today on gender, on human relationships and family
ties were all spoken ofby Ibsen

Ila Arun wants to make adaptations without disturbing the
playwright’s message. — PHOTO: SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT

‘Pabu ji ki phad’. The produc- how to , make the play your
tion was highly appreciated own without disturbing the
by Norwegian and Indian au- soul of the play or the messdiences alike,” she says.
She was invited to Norway
to watch the Ibsen theatre festival organised by the Ibsen
Centre in Oslo in 2012.“I start-

age the playwright wants to
give.”

This festival, therefore, is not
only a presentation of theatre,

mine and Helge Lien performed themes of Ibsen plays in

vour of Ibsen intact and work

but this festival is about engag—

jazz music and the celebrated

ing in a dialogue with Ibsen
and about Ibsen,” he said.

theatre and ﬁlm actor Kare
Conradi of Norway performed
Ibsen’s Peer Gynt in a one—
hour solo show.
“Then we had a production

Adaptationsfor India
Actor Ila Arun

directed

erland. Going by the response

of the play, I. think we have
succeeded in conveying the
message,” says Ila.
What makes Ibsen still rele-

plays for the festival and con—

in Gujarati of Master Builder vant? “Ibsen wrote his plays

ducted a seminar on translating Ibsen. Her association
with the playwright began a
few years ago.
*

and my production Peer Ghani, an adaptation of the dramatic poem Peer Gynt. It was
important for me to work in a
language and milieu known to
me so that the audience gets

“I was asked by [theatre director] Dr. Nissar Allana to
participate in the Ibsen festival
in 2010 in Delhi. The subject
was ‘Ibsen in tradition’ so I decided to adapt Ibsen’s The Ladyfrom theSea as Mareechika

in a Rajastham' folk tradition

100 years back. He was con-

cerned about issues that are
still relevant today in India, be
it voice of women, status of

women in a male-dominated
society or corruption in socie-

connected with the theme of ty and decay in moral values.
the play,” says Ila.
So the inspiration to produce
But adapting Ibsen for Indi- his plays is natural,” says Ila.
an audiences was not bereft of
She is already busy working
challenges. “The most diﬂi- ' on her next play, an adaptacult part of the 'adaption is tion of Ibsen’s Ghost.
/a"‘

. _-m
रू

on a relationship ofPeer Ghani with his mother and moth-

.

Poetic ﬂavour
several generations ago. I
After lot of deliberation I
think therefore he also has a _ ed work on the Ibsen theatre decided to place the adapta. lot to say to an Indian audi- festival 2014 titled ‘When we tion in Kashmir and tell the
ence. And the audience in In- dead awaken — Ibsen comes story of ‘Peer Ghani’ who tries
dia can learn a lot from the lay- alive in Mumbai’. It shaped in- to search for his identity and
ers of complex moral ethos to an international festival as wants to know who he really‘
and value systems that Ibsen two troupes from Norway is. My emphasis in the adaptatries to unravel in his works. participated. Ruth Wilhel- tion was to keep the poetic ﬂa- i

