TH E DIRECTOR
in many Indian universities as a free-lance teacher/

director before taking a job (Producer, Drama and
Current Affairs) in Doordarshan, Delhi. He married
Anjala Chitnis, a trained actress from HSD and a

professional classical dancer.
In 1973, the couple got their first major assignment
in abroad. The Government of India sent them to

Mauritius as theatre Experts where they together
initiated a Youth Theatre Movement. Mohan
Maharishi was further retained as Cultural Adviser to

the Prime Minister by the Government of Mauritius
for a period of three years.
He returned to India in 1979 to head the Department
of Drama, Punjab University, Chandigarh. Consider—
ing his eminence in the field, he was directly taken
on as Professor.

In 1984, the NSD Society requested him to take over

M o h a n Maharishi

the Directorship of the National School of Drama. He
worked as director of NSD till August 1986.

Born in Ajrner, Rajasthan in the year 1940, Mohan
Maharishi began his career in drama with all India
Radio, Jaipur in the year 1955-56 as an amateur
actor. He took active interest in college drarnatics

and as Cultural Secretary of his college participated

In his 30-year's career as director, teacher, actor,

designer and writer, Mohan Maharishi has created
several important works; notable amongstthem are
his productions of regional Indian playwrights like

a ctor/director .

Adya Rangacharya, Badal Sarkar, Girish Karnad,
Mohan Rakesh and Dr. Dharamvir Bharti.

It was in the year 1962 that he decided to turn
professional and joined the National School of

Jean-Paul Sartre's Men Without Shadows, Anouilh's
Antigone, Bertold Brecht's The Mother, George

Drama as a student. There he came in contact with

Bernard Shaw's Pygrnalion, Durenmatt' 5 The Visit,

in National Youth Festivals to win several prizes as an

the most eminent teacher/director, Mr. E. Alkazi. He
graduated from the National School of Drarnrna 8

Asian Theatre Institute in the year 1965 with Girish
Ghosh and Bharat awards and was offered a two
year stint in the National School of Drama Repertory
Company.
Since 1967, Mohan Maharishi has held several

important positions in the field of theatre. He worked

- की क्या

.

Moliere's The Miser, and Kafka 's The Trial are some

of his best known productions of foreign playwrights and writers.

Mohan Maharishi has toured extensively all over the
world to see theatre and participate in seminars and
discussions as an Indian delegate. He has personally
met and had discussions with world renowned
theatre figures like actress Helanea Weigel, directors

, g.
{.4

T

at? 1 I ८१

/ “HQ?

रैहँतैढे WII 43:]
रुके’चि३"

1

