JEETU BAGDWAL : THEME AND INTERPRETATION
Mohan Upreti

When we decided to stage the operatic version of Jeetu Bagdwal, we were
overawed by the feeling that it would be the ﬁrst ever tragedy that Parvatiya
Kala Kendra would mount. If this itself posed a big challenge, bigger still was
the challenge of interpreting the theme of the legend which, as we realised during
the course of the production, had acquired different dimensions and versions
oVer the years. What. however, lent us strength was the fact that the characterisation of Jeetu, doubtlessly endowed with heroic dimensions on the lines of
classical tragedy, had a striking commonness in all versions available in
Garhwal. I decided to stick truthfully to this aspect. If any liberties have
been taken, purely for artistic convenience, they have been done in the case of
minor details or characters.

The basic question which kept on troubling me was : Why did Jeetu Spurn
the offer of fairies to be taken alive to heaven? Needlessly, it was because he
loved his land more than anything. But, then, the legend is not very clear on
this score. The common belief is that he told the fairies that heavenly comforts
took a back seat in his priorities and that he felt more committed to his people
and surroundings which, he felt, could offer him more than what heaven
promised. That might have been relevant six centuries ago but how to make it
relevant in the present context?
It became imperative, therefore, to tailor the libretto of Jeetu Bagdwal
according to contemporary social and economic problems. That We have done
without, in any manner, compromising on the vitality and authenticity of the

characterisation of Jeetu.

The “masan”, for instance, has been interpreted here

as a tyrant bent on denying the people their fundamental necessities and rights.
Jeetu takes on the “masan” and brings him into submission. Besides, Jeetu, in
another dimension to his character, distributes his land to his people, which is
in line with the current aspirations of the people. Besides, he exorts his subjects
to maintain the ecological balance which has become so vital in today’s context.
As a natural corollary to these, one would expect that Jeetu, with his revolutionary ideas, would come into confrontation with the then powers that be.

presumed that this happened indeed.

I have

We have mythical evidence to support

