या .AS'part_ofNamaste France

‘ ;'f¢stiVal;fjcontemp0rary
.jdari‘c'e‘iconAst’ad Deboo ३
» f (7111,collabmate'with
'३ s 1111119115drummers at
France’s Opera Bastille "
‘ . SHRADDHAUCHIL
shraddha.uchil@rnid-day.com 7

HE TURNS 70 next year, but there’s no stopping
'Astad Deboo. A pioneer in the ﬁeld of Indian
. contemporary dance, he has been invited to
perform at the Namaste France festival in Paris.
The 75-day festival kicked off on September 15,
and Deboo's Ill-member troupe will perform on

October 3- Deboo is known for his masterﬁﬂ

A'still from a previous performance of Rhythm Divine ll: River Runs Deep.
technique of blending folk, traditional and
contemporary styles with theatre. The excitement evident in his voice, he says, “This is the
ﬁrst time ever that a contemporary dance troupe

from india has been invited to represent the
country on such a large stage. It is a dream to be

performing at the Opéra Bastille, which is one of
the most prestigious opera houses in the world.”
Deboo will be collaborating with the
acclaimed Pung Cholom
Shree Shree Govindajee

drummers of
Nat Sankirtan,

Manipur, to perform a piece titled Rhythm
Divine 11: River Runs Deep. The dance exponent
has a long-standing association with the group,
having worked with them for over 10 years.
“We received the invitation only six weeks ago,

and didn't have the time to choreograph a new
Di—
piece. This is why we’re going with Rhythm

vine 11, which is a tried-and-tested routine.
However, this is the first time it is being

presented outside lndia,” adds Deboo, who will
be returning to France after 20 years.

Sankirtan. PIC COURIESV/AMIT KUMAR
The drummers of Shree Shree Govindajee Nat
’

The 85-minute performance gathers tempo

slowly, ending in a ﬂying crescendo and,
in Deboo’s words, is almost spiritual.
After the Paris performance, the troupe
५ will perform in Lisbon, Portugal, and

x then move on to Belgrade, before re—
turning to India. Although he has
been awarded the Sangeet Natak
Akademi Award (1996) and the
l. Padma Shri (2007), Deboo feels

' that the Indian classical dance
community has sidelined him.
“Earlier, big venues such as

' these would invite only classical
dancers, not contemporary folk.
But now. the atmosphere is right

internationally. After 47 years of
dancing professionally, this feels
good. My persistence has paid off.
' found success," he ends.

______._—._——Astad Deboo has performed
at the Great Wall of China, with
Pink Floyd in London. and at
the 50th anniversary of the
American Dance Festival.
Pierre Cardin commissioned
him to choreograph a dance
for Maia Plissetskaia. prirna
ballerina of the Bolshoi Ballet.
Deboo has performed before
the royal families of Japan,
Sweden. Bhutan and Thailand.
He has also been a part
of prestigious dance festivals
in France.
’

