Outline of the Play
When one reaches middle age, things start happening to him. It is
not only the greying streak or the bulging waistline that disturb the
‘sundowner’ as the American would call him, it is something more.

One stops for a stock-taking of life at this stage; to ﬁnd out the
identity, purpose and direction of life. He seeks to rediscover
himself. This stage of life is appropriately called the male ‘metapause’
meaning literally, change and pause.
Metapause is exactly that strikes Deepankar, the protagonist of
Suryastak, who is going to celebrate his fortieth birthday as the
play opens. He is aware of the changes that are happening to him,
his greying hair, his bulging middle and his weakening nerves. He is
aware of everyone losing faith in him and his own self confidence
getting shaken. He discovers that the ‘ personal ambitions he had, and
which he thought he would achieve some day, are beyond his reach.
Deepankar had wanted to pursue a career in theatre, but landed up
as a sales executive. He is number Two in his ofﬁce, and he knows
he is not going to move up to be Number One. He hates his friend
who is the Number One and whom he vaguely suspects being
intimate with his wife. He has littlecommunication with his wife and
has a blurry idea of running away with the girl he loved as a youngrnan.

He has not lost all hopes and is ready for a little introspectidn. So,

on his birthday he has with him his wife, his boss and the girl he
loved, persons who, he thinks, have made his life what it is. He is

all set to take a momentous decision, for he knows, as does every
sundowner in his rnetapause that if he lets this day slip by, the sun
will set and the rest of his life would be a long dreary night.

He remembers his past as a youngman in love, but there also he
finds himself a confused weakling, unable to choose a career he
wanted and unable to decide about marrying the girl he loved. He
contemplates the years spent since then, years of airconditioned
drudgery and loss of love and happiness. He blames them all for

making him what he is, and wants to castigate them for what he
thinks is their contribution to his misfortune.

As he proceeds with his mock trial, it only reveals how hollow his
life has been, and by the time he has ﬁnished with his accusations,

he stands denuded in his own emptiness. And when the accused
turn accuser, he has no answers. For him the sun has truly and
ﬁnally set.

