फुर्वात्रुछ [momma 800343
' A31 ,हैं S

Zanani

‘k Family planning, a major social issue affecting women, was taken up by Ajoka in

1995. "Jum Jum Jeevay Jammanpura " was rated as one of the most effective
communication initiatives ever undertaken by family planning organizations in
Pakistan. The play was turned into a TV serial called "Janjaalpura" in 1996 and is now
a popular drama serial on Geo under the title "Khushalpura".

* In 1996, Ajoka's new play "Kala Meda Bhes" revolves around the true story of a
woman who was exchanged for an ox by her husband.

‘k "Dukhini", Ajoka's collaborative production with a Bangladeshi theatre group, Bita,
focussed on trafficking of women from Bangladesh to Pakistan. It was staged in
Pakistan and Bangladesh in 1997 and then in India and Nepal in 2000.

* Balwant Gargi 's "Loha Kut", was staged in 2000. The play revolves around a
loveless marriage and a woman's suffering in a traditional male-dominated society.

मैं In 2001 , "Niki" was staged, carrying a message about taking care of little girls. Same
year, a play on the theme of women's social empowerment, "Chal Melay nu
Chaliye" was produced and performed in the rural Punjab.

‘k In 2002, "Adoohr'i", a play about the struggle of Pakistani women was performed
before an audience, which included the President of Pakistan and was telecast live.

हैं' "Maikoon Kaar'i Kar'ainday Ni Mae " was first performed in 2003 on the vital
issue of honour killings. The play has toured South Punjab and Sind where honour
killings are a major human rights issue.
Ajoka's commitment to the cause of gender equality and emancipation of women has
been unwavering in the past two decades. It's stage plays and teledrarnas have had a
significant impact on millions of people who have watched these plays live or on TV
and VCRs, and has thus contributed to awareness raising and mobilization for the
creation of a society based on gender equality and social justice.

The Zanani festival is a way of celebrating the achievements and reaffirming the
resolve. It is also an occasion to link up with like—minded groups, share experiences,
pool resources and build peace. The goal of gender equality and social justice cannot
be achieved without building peace.

