<5) (क्रि-प्रसंगी

Manch Rang Manch's

L 0 01111

'9

Written by: Shiv Kumar Batalvi
Directed by: Kewal Dhaliwal

The Group
Committed to the cause of Punjabi theatre for over a decade now,
Manch Rangmanch,
Amritsar is one of the most prominent theatre groups in Punjab.
Apart from its dramatic productions, the group also organizes re
gular workshops on various
aspects of theatre with a special focus on training of children. It has so
far staged about 150
different plays both in India and abroad.

The Play
This folk tale revolves around a beautiful girl, Loona, whom a king Salw
an starts liking. The

king who is already married, wants to marry Loona. A son of the king, Puran, lang
uishes in
prison for the last 1 8 years. Though the marriage of the King and Loona takes place bu
t it's an
odd match, that ofan old man and a young girl.
Puran gets released. He is a handsome chap. Loona proposes him for marriage but he
takes her
as his mother. On refusal, Loona becomes revengeful and alleges in front of the King
that
Puran has tried to rape her. A furious king amputates Puran.

The Playwright/Poet:
Shiv Kurnar Batalvi was one of the best modern Punjabi poets, whose promising career was
sadly cut by his sudden and early demise at the age of36. His unorthodox interpretation ofthe
folk tale poses some vital and disturbing questions and his poetry adds to the power ofthe play. .
The Director

Kewal Dhaliwal is a graduate of National School of Drama (NSD). He has been an active
member of Amritsar School of Drama and Amritsar Natak Kala Kendra Since 1978. At
present, he is the Director ofManch Rangmanch, Amritsar.

Dhaliwal has devoted considerable time for street plays. He has done more than 50 theatre
shows in USA, Canada and England. He has also conducted a number of theatre workshops.
He has directed more than 20 plays for children.
Dhaliwal has won best actor and director awards from the Language DPP. Punjab. He was
honoured by Punjab Lok Sabhaya Charak Manch in 1985, Lok Kala Manch Machhiwara in
1986, Punjab Natay Academy, best actor award, in 1 9 87 , Indo African Assocration 1n 1991 and

Amritsar Cultural Society in 1992.

15

