The Company's

Kitchen Katha
The Company
The Company is a group set up in 1983 by Neelam Man
singh and she remains its Artistic Director. The group
has earned renown for creating a theatre that fuses
source material form Western classics with a
performance style grounded in an earthy Punjabi
aesthetic. Its productions are characterized by the use
of spare props which evoke an ambience of a Punjab
village and incorporate music. ritualistic elements and
the presentation ofpoetic images. The company is also
renowned for having among its regular performers a
group oftraditional Punjabi folk performers. naqqals.
The group has widely performed in India and abroad
and has won accolades at major international theatre
festivals for its innovative productions. Among its productions are: adaptations of Lorca's
Yenna, The Mad Woman of Challiot by Jean Giraudoth and Racine's Phaedra.

The play
Written by leading Punjabi poet playwxright Surj it Patar. the play was first performed in 1098.
it is set in a kitchen. Tara. the granddaughter of Chand Kaur. unravels the story of her
grandmother for the benefit of 'Writer' who is in search of a story. Told in a story stellingformat. the play unfolds through the garden of memory : where varied smells and tastes lead to
an association that evoke thoughts and feelings of sensuality. pain. happiness and rejection.
Critics have already called the play as a landmark iti Indian theatre because of its innovative
production.
The play is based on Laura Esquivel’s ' Like Water for Chocolate' and Isabel Allende's
'Aphrodite'.

The Director
The play has been directed by Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry whose favorite haunt has always
been the vegetable Mandi. Ms Chowdhry believes that sharing of food bonds connect us to the
earth from where it is produced. She says ' The vegetable world conjures up images in my mind
and heart that seem to connect with my larger world'. The chopping. cutting and cooking of
vegetables has always played a therapeutic role as it involves discipline. precision and
imagination.

Cast
Ramanjit Kaur. Payal Chouhdry. Pamela Singh. Somesh. Amarjit. Desraj. Sanjeev Kumar.
Mundri Lal and Prern Chand.

Credits:
Music Composed By:
Lighting Design By:
Set Designer:
Backstage:

B .V. Karanth
Zuleikha Allana Chaudhiy
Sumant Jayakrishnan Backstage
Mitender Kumar. Sanj iv Kumar

23

