Zanan1'

Te h ri k-e- N i swa n 's

lung Ab Nahi H0 Gi
The Group :
Tehrik—i-Niswan was set up in 19805 as a theatre
group committed to doing plays on women's
issues and is one of the few groups in Pakistan
who have regularly performed plays on social हैं
themes. It has also produced teleplays.

The play :
Ab Jang Nahi Ho Gi, is Tehrik—e-Niswan ’5' latest theatre production. It is based on Aristophane’s
Greek classic, Lysislrata, written in 41 1 BC. Lysistarta is one ofthe most remarkable peace plays
in world literature, and today, nearly 2500 years later, it still holds amazing relevance anywhere
in the world. The Urdu version 'Jang A b Nahz' Ho Gi’ has been adapted and translated for Tehrik
by well— known poet and writer Fahmida Riaz.
The play revolves around two tribes, Khaebani and Phool Machhz'. The story goes that having
gained independence through a j oint struggle against the colonial rule, the two tribes, are now in
a constant state of strife among themselves because of their chauvinistic rulers. Pained and
disgusted by the state of affairs in this patriarchal set up, the women ofthe warring tribes unite to
bring about a change by refusing the men their (so called) conjugal rights. To render the men
completely helpless, the women also manage to gain control of the state coffers. The war
machinery thus comes to a grinding halt and the men-folk are forced to see reason.
Director:

Sheerna Kirmani, director of the play and head of the group, is a leading classical dancer and
actress. She has been committed to the women's movement in Pakistan and has produced a
number ofpowerful plays and dance dramas on the women's rights themes.

About the play she says: "When I read ”Lysistrata" about ten years ago, I knew that this was a
play I wanted to do. To me it is a feminist play as well as an anti-war play: the comic element
underpins a dire situation. - the destructive nature ofwar is an extension ofdestructive nature of
patriarchy! It raises the idea that perhaps we need women to run international politics, women in
positions of authority! To treat a situation as serious as war in a comic way is difﬁcult but then
comedy has long been recognized as a very powerful tool by which to make a comment on
society and on the characters in the society. In the Greek original, ”Lysistrata" is a far—sighted
and wise women Who decide to ﬁnd a way to end war. I felt that the idea and desire to end wars is
what all women want. "

Cast:
1 . Sheerna Kirmani
3.
5.
7.
9.
11.

Shazia Qamar
Uzrna Mazhar
Tahira Khan
Iffat Nasir
Saif-e-Hassan

l 3 . Hasan Nasir
15. AtifSiddiqui

2. Mahvash Faruqi
4. Asrna Mundrawala
6. Mona Liza
8. Nuzhat Kidvai
l 0. Mehmood Bhatti
12. Sanober Petter

l 4. Salim Miraj
1 6. Mani Chao

l 7. S hama

24 .

