T H E CU R L E W’S CRY
by KAMAL KAPUR
About the play :
Kunti, a sensitive gifted young woman, is ailing.

more.

She is troubled

by strange dreams.

She cannot write any

In her there is a longing for

fulfillment, apparently in ways totally strange to her down to earth husband,
Vijay, who does not care for her philosophy, but loves her nonetheless. To
them come the swinging, jetsetting Rita and her shy boy friend Jamil, a poet,

gho falls in love with Kunti.
I a.

Vijay is attracted by the gay, pleasure-loving

The play is about these relationshlps, these reachings out by essentially
lonely people deSperate for love, companionship and understanding.

Only

Shanti, the ayah who has brought up Kunti, stands amidst these shifting
attractions, placid and secure in her world of. unquestioned values.
The playwright takes the characters gently and compassionately to a
resolution that they learn to accept with humility and ﬁnally a serenity that is
born of true understanding.

The play is set in Delhi.

Time—the present.

ABOUT T H E A U THOR
Karnal Kapur Phillips was born in 1948.

She completed her schooling

from the Welham Girls School. Dehra Dun and graduated from the Punjab
University.

After this she went to the U.S.A. for her post graduation from

the Kent Unlversity, Ohio.
Literature in the U.S.A.

She also did research in English Language and

Returning to India, she taught English literature

College. Delhi, for some years.

at the Indraprastha

She is now teaching in Ryadh, Saudi Arabia

Kamal started her litrary career writing English poetry—~specially religious
poetry. In Delhi she acted in Balwant Gargi's production—“Gagan me Khal"
and a Genet play. Her ﬁrst short play was published in “ENACT” in 1974.
Thereafter, two of her plays—“Camia” and "Zenana"—-won the Sultan
Padamsee Award, for best English play written by an Indian, in 1977 and 1978,

Two other plays written by her are "Lollipop Theatre Company presents :he
Beasts” and “Clytemenestra”.
The undercurrent of thought in her plays—as in this one—seems to be
the man-woman relationship, with all its intricacies and nuances.

