स्म \ अज्ञ __ 5° 17 ८८

‘n‘: 7 १० l८
Th swim}:
The first episode: In Search ofSocrates:

400 BC. Athens is defeated in the war of Peloponnesian. Its glory and pride is shattered.
'Democracy' which was Athens' pride remains a distant past. Athens is now ruled by a 'Gang
of Thirty'. They were to draft and present a new constitution. A constituent assembly with
500 supporters' is formed. This assembly hands over the governance to a gang of 'Selected

Eleven' . l n today's pa rlance this ' Eleven ' represents the 'Secret Police Service‘ .

Saturos, leader of this gang, was a despot. Under his stewardship this gang decided to

throttle
Democratic norms and gag all pro-democracy voices. Many died without trial. Dictatorship
of the 'Thirty' lasted eight months: September 403 to May 404 BC. Critius led this gang. An
orator, philosopher he was - but anti-democratic to the core. But dissension came to

surface even amongst their dictators. Therarnenes, was the one amongst them who put the
'Thirty' ill at ease.
To gain legitimacy the 'Select Thirty' sought the support of the intelligentsia. They asked
Socrates to arrest an innocent citizen and present before them. This they could do through
their own secret agents, but instead wanted Socrates to do the job to show to the people at
large, his support for their cause. Socrates refused. All these turn of events are documented
history. Rest is imagined for the sake ofthe dramatic continuity.
This is not the history of Greece alone. Even if these events are 2500 years old it is as much
pertinent today as it was there. The dilemma of Socrates is constantly relevant especially in
our struggle to evolve the true definition of democracy.

futon/AZ
The second episode: The Trial ofSocrates:
399 BC. Socrates was 70 when he had to face a trial. Anutus, one of the leading politicians
and orator charged Socrates for leading the youth of his days astray and that Socrates did
not believe in the God, recognized by the state.
There were 501 Judges; Lawyers never collectively presented their cases in Athens of those
days. Plaintiff and defendant argued their cases in person. Very few of the Judges were
aware of the intricacies or finer points of law and were often carried away by the rhetoric
and oratory. Experts were also handy who wrote speeches for others. It is believed Socrates
reminded the Judges oftheir weakness through his typical wit.
Socrates was found guilty by the majority of only the 60 Judges. Law allowed the guiltyto
ask for lighter punishment. When offered this opportunity, Socrates asked for such
ridiculously low penalty that the judges felt ridiculed. He was sentenced to death with a
much - increased majority.
In the present play a few characters are fictitious and may not be backed by the history. The

play as such historical.

Th Dado/14’ Nola:
Socrates was the maiden production of Circle Theatre Company with its maiden
performance at the 4m Bharat Rang Mahotsav, N50, 2002 as well as had the honour of
having the premier as the Venue Opening production on the same occasion. This
production is a 'revival' one with contemporary political undertone, based on the two most
striking events of our country (1975 and 1992).

it is an account of a turbulent period in the history of Greece, some 2500 years ago. Its
contemporary significance emanates from the central idea behind the death of Socrates; it

is being shunning of freedom of expression. Here, in this production, I am not interested in
the 'history' aspect in the play Socrates. Rather tried to relate that history to our country, to
the present situation, identifying them with the contemporary context. Like Emergency in

