Th ०८4८८7८००८
BapiBose:
Studied at IITA, Kolkata, NSD; New Delhi and NIDA, Sydney,

Australia; the multifaceted Mr. Bapi Bose is one of the most

prominent radical theatre director of Contemporary Indian

Theatre who has also carved his own niches in the field of
Scenography and Stage Illuminations through his unique
innovative style & stage techniques as well. Mr. Bose is a
prominent practitioner of New Media and Installation Art which

he incorporates in many of his productions and initially he is
among one ofthe initiator and pioneer who introduced these two
subjects in Contemporary Indian Theatre, engages himself in
propagating the use of Best ofScience and Technology with other

Visual Medium in Contemporary Indian Theatre.
Associated with IPTA and the Group Theatre movement of West Bengal in the mid
seventies, "whose fortes are large scale production of historical subjects with hard hitting
contemporary realities"... "Mr. Bose made headlines everywhere for radical choice of
presentation with keen sense of history and society. He always made it a point to dwell on
ugly and beautiful elements ofpolitical and social history".... ..”Acclaimedfor such political
plays he has come a long way since his foray into active theatre during Emergency in 1975-

76. Not the one to conceal his political leanings, he takes pride in his association with Left
party's movement against the last Congress-led Government in his home state of West
Bengal during 1 9 72- 77. ”

Worked with almost all the leading theatre directors of India and some of them of
international repute. As an ex-member of NSD Repertory Company and for others Mr. Bose
has acted in leading or major roles in more than fifty productions, designed sets & lights for
more than hundred productions each and elected several productions with the
professional companies including the much-acclaimed production of NSD Repertory

Company's Nati Binodini, Di/li Chalo etc. (in 1997, to mark the three occasions - the Birth
Centenary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, the Golden Jubilee of India's Independence
and the Golden Jubilee of Indian National Army, directed NSD Repertory Company's
prestigious 'mega-multimedia' production - Dil/i Chalo, the epic saga of INA's great fight
which was selected for Govt. of India's tribute ceremony - Tribute to the Nation and staged
twice at the historical Red Fort.)
"The USP of all his production Sanyasi Ki Talwar (SKP Production), Turup Ka Patta (SRC
Production, two different productions), Socrates (six different productions), Julius Caesar

Ke Aakhree Saat Din (two different productions), Ekla Chalo Re, Pratham Parth (two
different productions), Parampurush and the latest 'mega-multimedia' production

Seventeenth July (all are CTC Productions) stood at par excellence in terms of its 'artistic
quality, expression and message' which resulted at a row the 'Best Production' of Sahitya
Kala Parishad (State Academy), Govt. of NCT, Delhi, and leads to participated in National
School of Dra ma 's International Theatre Festival — Bharat Rang Mahotsav and its Satellite
Theatre Festival, Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India and other festivals of National

i m porta n ce . "
Participated in National and International Festivals, awarded Scholarship (NSD), Fellowship
(NSD) and Senior Fellowship (Dept. of Culture, Govt. of India), comprehended by various
awards andfelicitations from different renowned cultural organizations including Govt. of
West Bengal, Govt. of NCT; Delhi, Netaji Samman (Gold Medal) from AIFB, Natsamrat
Award (Best Director) in 2013 etc.

Conducted many theatre workshops for various organizations all over the country Mr. Bose
has been in the visiting faculty for many institutions and universities including NSD since
1992, often writes articles on theatre, reads paper in the seminars and co—translator of all of
his productions. Presently he is working as a freelance designer; director, teacher and
founder & artistic Director of Ci rcle Theatre, 3 professional theatre company of New Delhi.

