THEATRE INDIA LIMITED
Established on 27 November 1995 and located at 8 Old Post Ofﬁce Street, Room No. 3, 2nd ﬂoor, Calcutta 700001 Theatre India Limited (IIL) is a
corporate body for promoting theatre, dance and music in all their varied forms with certain concrete objectives. Out of the 15 programmes performed111
the last one year, a Badal Sircar retrospective, presentations of classic plays by Kumar Roy, Bibhas Chakraborty and Arun Mukhopadhyay, promotion of
young directors like Ambar Roy are remarkable among other theatre, dance and music programmes of great relevance. TIL has collaborated with KKM to
jointly produce Laj/‘a and Kama under its- objective of producing plays and creating original events under the TIL banner:

KALAKSHETRA MANIPUR
Established on 19 july 1969, located at Keisamthong Thangjam Leirak, Imphal 795001. By continuous experiment, KKM accomplished a style of theatre in
the form of a predominantly non-verbal dramaturgy. That created one of the most distilled and poetically heightened performance traditions in the
contemporary Indian theatre. Steeped in the milieu of Meitei culture this theatre crystallized the most critical realities of oppression and resistance
through its plays like Pebet and Memoirs ofAfrz'ca, by making the spectators alert to the resilience of the human spirit in countering the dominant
tensions of the time. Now, with the co-operation of ’I'IL, a new project on the Ritual of Suffering, a turning point in both art and ideology, could be initiated.
KKM has now come forward with its renewed commitment to transform artistic, social, economic and political life into an ideology to express the
concerns of a better humanity. The Project on the Ritual of Suffering is therefore to experiment with its process in the environment of a collective Gurukul
lifestyle to be initiated very soon at the site which KKM has already acquired at Keirao, 8 km away from Imphal.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We express our sincere gratitude to :

Central Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi, for their collaboration in video documentation and sponsorship of the visit of Shri N.C. Jain and Shri Samik
Bandopadhyay.
Seagull Foundation for Art, Calcutta, and personally to Shri Naveen Kishore, for photographic documentation and critical assessment of the shows for
Seagull Theatre Quaterly.
Panthoibi Natya Mandir, Imphal, for all co-operation while making available Nityanand Mandap for shows. Aryan Theatre of Imphal and Public Theatre of
Phoijing for co-operation in lending their stages for rehearsal.
Shri M. Akshaykumar Singh of Aryan Theatre for his help in photographic documentation of the whole event.

Published by Kh. Ushakanta Singh, Secretary of KKM, for Kalakshetra Manipur and Theatre India Ltd.
Computer typesetting and graphics by Larnyanba Printers, Konung Lampak, Imphal and printed at Sangai Offset Printers, Sega Road, Imphal.

