. 51gqu Kiss KaiHaiti/ya.'playpl'esenteJ
_ Kilauews SERVICE rd
JAMMU, Nov 1'7:

,३
'
' " ‘ ‘’' '
‘L
८८१८०11१६.८हृ३०1८1 of (.11.19,.91.:;:...::.7.:.Sath ॰ ड़क्षाहं present scenario or this century. that

Mandal, _ today presented’ ijay
Malla's new- progressive Nukkad
"Juuwa Kiss Ka Huuﬁva" in collabo-

f;.-.vokeithemxtoutry their luck. ltis not .

है give them thrashing.

this evil. has spread‘it's ugly Shadow, "

but it has its roots from the, time of

This old man e} plains them the
' bad results of gambling, how a per, son is left deprived of his carrier and

Mahabharata.
bright future. How can they build up
Story line of this Nukkad is that
their carrier if they indulge in such
some teenage friends' extracts
money from their parents in the ' anti social activities, they Will be
socially isolated forever. Gambling is
५
"Juuwa Kiss Ka Huuwa'" is pro- name of tuition and coaching almost
one of.dangerous enemy for our soci—
gressive Nukkad based on evil of daily but never attends any coaching
ety and your future. ' 'Nobody will
classes. Instead of coaching they
gambling among youth in our socie. ty. This bad habit is emerging in our “ gamble in ३ a remote corner of a pub- - trust you; respect you, in the family.
Finally they realize their mistake
lic park daily. One of the boyls
society with open arms particularly
and confess. They decide and promgrandfather doubts activities of his
among youth. Gambling has spoiled
many youths who lost their wealth grandson when the demands 100 ise old man that they will never
indulge in this evil in future. A large
rupees from his grandfather for staproperty peace of mind and career.
number of people witnessed this i
tionary.
.
Gambling is not conﬁned to playNukkad. '
This old man decides to follow him
ing cards but it an extended its to 'coaching Centre but is astonished
Actors who performed including
wings to betting on cricket and other
to see that his destination is park ८ Frandey Gill, Rahul Jacker, Master '
things like election ' results. Youth where - his friends are waiting for. Nihal, Qurat-ul-Ain, Adison and
particularly are easily misguided by . gambling (Playing Cards). So this is Vijay Malla. The play was written
certain antisocial elements who pro— . his coaching centre?. Grandfather and directed by Vijay Malla

ration' with 1BLSKS at Municipal
Park, Patoli Morh near Amba
Theatre Janipur.
;

