THUS GRE WA CITY...
The city ofKolkata is over 310 years old.
Situated about 2 50 kms inland on the left bank ofthe river Hoogly,
Calcutta wasfounded by Job Charnock. A British sailor who hadﬂed
Calicut because of the Portugese, Charnock sought refuge in the
village ofSutanuti, which was later named Calcutta in rememberence
of Calicut. Along with the neighbouring villages of Gobindapur and
Kolikata, the city ofCalcutta was established in the year 7 690, almost
three centuries ago. In 7 72 7, in accordance with the ordersfrom King
George I, a civil court was set up in the city; later the Calcutta
Municipal Corporation was formed and the city had its ﬁrst mayor:
Calcutta soon expanded to become an important trading post
controlled by the East India Company.
In 7 756, the Nawab of Bengal, Siraj-ud-Daula, the last
independent nawab of Bengal, captured the city and renamed it
'Alinagar'. But the British regained their power in 7 757 and the city
was recaptured under Robert Clive. After Fort William was built on
the banks ofthe Hoogly in 7 696, Warren Hastings, thefirst GovernorGeneral ofIndia, made Calcutta the capital ofBritish India in 7 772.
Much of Kolkata’s most enduring development took place
between 7 780 and 1820. By 1800 Calcutta had become a busy and
ﬂourishing town, the centre ofthe cultural as well as the political and
economic life ofBengal, and was known as the 'Jewel ofthe East '. In
the 19th century, Bengal became the epicentre of revolutionary
nationalist activities in the strugglefor Indian independence. In 7 911
the capital was transferredfrom K0lkata to Delhi.
* Material resourcedfrom Shishir Kumar Das's introduction to
Sahib Bibi Golam and Calcutta- The Living City.
A strange city is Calcutta
Where brothels proliferate with broughams
A ndfalsehood thrives
Where the would-be—victim enjoys the. plight ofthe
victim-that—is.
Signifying an unnatural amity
Where pseudo
Saints
Roam spreading their mischievous snares.
A quotefrom a folk tale of ’Hutom Pencha'

