NOTES ON DIRECTING SAHEB BIBI GOLAM
Bimal Mitra is novel is a narrative of belonging and exclusion,
which pivots on theﬁgure ofan outsider who brings disquiet into two
families; but whose existential needs remain at variance with the
transformations that he witnesses around him. It is equally the story of
the life of Pateshwari, the choti bahu, who ﬁnds no way of
accommodating her desire for life and love to the norms that the
society she lives in has set up.
Bhootnath Chakravarty is surrounded by a gallery ofcharacters
who play out situations that are comic sometimes, sometimes
profoundly tragic, even contemptible, degrading and mortifying,
which are presented affectionately on occasion, at times with ﬁerce
contempt, but always with great intensity. Contrasts of bright
illumination with areas of dense shadows that make up these
characters allow an exploration of complicated and powerful
emotions, which are importantfor training student actors.
While researching the play, we watched Guru Dutt s magniﬁcent
ﬁlm based on the novel, which not only helped us in charting a route
through the narrative, but also persuaded us to render areas ofintense
light and shade. Almost all the workpresented on stage and even the
divisions ofspace that are part of the scenography are in some way
connected to the improvisations the students did on the text. These
ranged from developing the lives of the minor characters to
excavating the secrets oftheprinciple characters.
We have attempted to create a playing space that is ﬂexible and
which can represent the several locations that the characters
negotiate; inner worlds, outer worlds, public spaces and prohibited
recesses. Vishal Dar has guided the students through these
explorations ofspace. We have also attempted to create a sort ofﬁlmic
interweave into the dramatic performance which brings in a montage
of Guru Dutt sﬁlm on to the stage. Once again Vishal Dar has taken
the students through this exercise. Vidya Rao has guided the students
through the research on music of that period and has also recorded
especially for this production. Sara Rai has steered the students
through the exercise of scripting the narrative and has written up
several scenes along with them. Kriti. V. Sharma has helped the
students develop costume ideas. Gautam Majumdar has worked
closely with the design students to design the lightsfor theproduction.
I am grateful to Rashid Ansari and Noushad for introducing the
students to psycho— physical exercises that impelled them to delve into
extreme emotions via physical action.
Anuradha Kapur

