BREAK 0F REASOI (IN HINDI)

Valejo's play is set in 18 th century Spain during the terror striok
en
rei
of
Ferdinand vii—- in the era of the Civil War and the

I
on.
It
s the story of a 76 year old man-—GOIA- an artist and oougguisiti
painter
who has been at the hub of matters all his life. Several ailments
plague him for years leading to a slow but can eta descent into

deafness. Sick in body and soul, deeply troub ed by the brutalisin g
हूँ०11र्रुनु of Spain he retiree to a villa on the outskirts of Madrid.
ere e lives with his 35 year old housekeeper Lepkadia and her two
children, one of whom the girl larikita, is said to be his. Goya's
pours his deep anguish on to the walls of his house-paintig the images
and fantasies that haunt his twilight hour...repressions and hangings
of artists and intellectuals, his relationship with a married woman
in Catholic Spain, an impending death when he loves life so fiercely,
the personal

oss of mari

ta who is sent away by Leokadia,

loss symbolising all that Spain has lost.

this

He is haunted by a madness

that is only a shade aifierent to the cries of the crany.
His only visitor is Dr.Arrieta, hisclosest friend and confidante to

whom he explains his paintings and his innermost nightmares. The Doctor
is the healer. News comes of the execution of a senior artist. Both

Leokadia and the Doctor urge Goya to flee Spain.

But for Goya the life

he seeks with such passionate intensity is the life which is Spain.
The Priest Duaso, a man of faith and Goya's childhood friend id sent as

the KIng's emissary to command Goya to ask the King's forgiveness.
Finally to make Goya submit the King's volunteers wreck and detestats
Goya's home and humiliate Leokadia.
The paintings of Goya's black period are interwoven into the script.
Ve interpret this at times to bring alivethe characters, at times to

recreate the atmosphere of the times and to refer to the textures
and colours which Goya used.
Some perceptions of ARJUN RAINA who plays Goya in this production....

"It is this vulnerability, this not belonging to any (Witches Sabbath
or the Church that gives the individual both his aloneness and his
freedom. It is the frenzy of onewhc has not surrendered himself but still
lives to hear his Question' What shall I believe in?', be answered.

Have we pregressed in time towards a modern non—medieval world? Or i
is lifts a spire returning time and again to the horrors of war and
communalism reflected in its simplest form in domestic strife? How
much is violence part of the old man and how much is he free of it?

The play is directed b

ANAMIKA HAKSAR: Graduate National School of

Drama,l979-823 Specialization in Direction from State Institute of
To her credit the first Indo Theatreproduotion,
Theatrical Arts, Moscow;
'Reminiscences of Krishna';
In 1989 directed Gagol's 'Viy' mith her

group NIRAKAR;
makin

with

'Grahon Ki Kahani Grahon Ki Zabani with Khilona «reup L989)

innovative use of theatre for science education;

Dakghar 1989

hri Ram Centre Repertory, chosen for the Sahitaya Kala Parishad

Annual Drama Festival, A commited theatre person in search of a new
idiom through incorporating dialogue, music, movement to present
a total dramatic experience.

