, .
.
About the Director

ED ८3

PROBIR GU HA I b.1947)

A noted Playwright/Director, has been acting and directing since 1965, particularly in agitprop and non
proscenium theatre. He formed the Living Theatre, Khardaha, an industrial suburb,19 km from Kolkata,in 1977.
The Group went on performing plays,mostly written and directed by guha, in intimate environment spaces,
often picking up local and regional themes and issues, and experiences for immediate presentation and critical
analysis. While trying to improvise production/performance methods to communicate with ruro—urban
audiences he later went on to form the Alternative Living theatre in 1991,at Madhyamgram and till now he has
written and directed more than 70 plays in country and abroad. Important plays are:Ahalya,Samudra
Asthir,Ekhon Majhrat,Ganyer Panchali, Kalo Basti, Shona katha, Dhusar Pandulipi,Bela Abelar Ga | po,
,1857,a neglected past,,Allah Megh De Pani De,Jaibati Kanya, Tritiya Juddha,Amma,Victimized,Shilari,Thiru
Yatra, Hum, Ghare ferar Gan etc.

He has had working experiences with some major directors of the World like Jerzy Grotowski in Poland,
Eugenio Barba in the former west Germany, Peter Brook in France, J.B Hatch, Anna Hallprin, Roger Simon,
Richard Schchner, and Peter Schurnan in United States, Toshi Tsitchuteri in France and India, John Martin from

England. He has worked with dancers like Sanjukta Panigrahi (Oddisi,lndia), Micado Cadet (Vudu,Haiti), I made
Pasek tempo ( Topeng and Legong ,Bali), Katsuko Ajuma ( Kabuki and Noh;Japan), Sudhir kumar Chhow, India), _
Lokendrajit Singh (Kabui‘ Naga,|ndia), tha Mangi( Thang Ta,lndia ), Hu Chun Lin(Peking Opera,China), Krishna
Das ( Kalari pyyat,|ndia), P.N.Rajeev (Kathakali,lndia).
H is theatre activities abroad include the workshop he conducted at theTisch School Of Dra ma, New York
University. He directed many plays in different states ofthe country as well as in Bangladesh,NepaI and one play
in collaboration with Hong Kong Peoples Theatre, staged in Ind ia, Bangladesh,nepa|,Thailand a nd HongKong. All
together he has written and directed 56 plays for ALT and other groups.
He was Creative Initiator for the projects ”Aditi" and ”Mela" for the FESTIVAL OF INDIA in United States
where he directed a collective performances by seventy five folk performers from india at the Smithsoniun
Institute, Washington. He also directed ”WE ARE” with Castillo Theatre Centre,New York. He participated in
1980, in the Theatre Of Sources, conducted by Grotowski in Poland,and the International School for Theatre
Anthropology, conducted by Eugenio Barba at Bonn. He was also participated as a resource person in Images

of Asia in Denmark. He was also invited in Tokyo and Sendai in Japan for Asia Meet Asia Festival.
He has contributed new, inexpensive but very strong forms of communication in theatre.
He has conducted many workshops in most of the major cities in country like, , Ba ngladesh,Pakistan,
USA, Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan, Germany,Po|land,Nepal,Holand, France,Denmark,Sweden and in several
places of West Bengal. Beside the theatre groups he also worked with many big NGOs in the country and in
Nepal, Bangladesh and in Denmark namely: Brac,Rupantar,Bita,Care,Caritas,Flac,Cry, 3i Sakha,GSS,
ActionAid,PSU,PSI,BangIaNatak.Com,Seagull Foundation and with many small ngos.
He is the President and founder member of NATI ( Nation Wide Alternative Theatre I nitiative), Executive
member of SATCO( South asian Theatre Committee), member of IDEA ( International Drama/Theatre &

Education Association,Netherlands),Ex 'General Secretary, Bahirangan( A forum of experimental theatre '
groups), member, Paschim Ba nga Natya Akaderni, He is also visiting faculty in manytheatre Institutions and
Universites in India and abroad.

In 2005 he was felicitated by Anya Theatre,Kolkata ( Dir: Bibhas Chakraborty ) for his life time
achievement and in 2006 felicitated by Theatre Workshop,Ko|kata, ( Dir: Ashoke Mukherjee ). In 2008 he hs
been awarded Sangeet Natak Akaderni Award for direction by Hon ble President of India .
He also received Commemorative Awards for his contribution in People's Theatre from American
Biographical Institute. Till the date he has acted in two film by Buddhadev Das gupta and
Sandip Roy. He has also directed two telifilm in Santhali and in

क्षक्लक्शाहोब्लब्वक्या ,

62>

