l:l हनु I: c: ८3
About the theatre
ALTERNATIVE LIVING THEATRE

Living Theatre was formed by Mr. Probir Guha in the year 1977 at khardaha a suburb town around 20 km
from Kolkata And laterIn the year 1990 it was renamed and registered as Alternative Living Theatre. The group
was formed with an earnest resolution to keep on trying against social odds. It was determined that the group
would never do anything to entertain people, but the sole purpose was to build social and human awareness. It
believes that theatreIs not a sale able product, instead it is a weaponby which people can revolt and bring out a
change in the system.
The group started performing at a very small school classroom; it was a clear decision from the group that

they would not face an urban crowd, because they were dealing with the problems of the marginalized people
who lived in the rural areas. So instead of heading towards the city they started penetrating villages and interiors.
Another problem popped up, the theatre going on in the cities are written and presented in a way to satisfy the
urban crowd, but the poor villagers couldn't understand it. It was a challenge for the group to come out of it, and

they did that with a different form of presentation, very simple but aesthetically. Hence the group has discarded
monotonous grammatical acting and has experimented and evolved a new aesthetic of theatre where physicality
is their means ofcommunication.
'
I
The group worked at the school In khardaha for nearly 10 years and a lot of people were the spectators.
Theatre giants from the country and abroad filled the small room along with the common people. The group
started giving workshops on its theology to a like minded groups. Later on it build it's residential workshop and
rehearsal space name ”AKH RA” at M ad hya rngra m, where students from India and abroad comes to learn.

The group believes... Theatre is a social act, not performance
We seek a radical transformation of theatre from an entertainment for a leisured class or an urban elite to
a mass practice , a social act involving people speaking different languages, belonging to different social strata,

moving through different walks of life.
We improvise performances from a situation, an idea, an image, structuring them in a such a way as to
create an impact on the spectators so that their complacence may crack and they may discover within their social

units the forms of dominance and oppression.
The proscenium is too elaborate, cerernonious and distant to create tremors in the audience,it is the nonproscenium form alone that opens and sustains an intimate dialogue between actor spectator.
In 1977,Probir Guha established the Living Theatre (at present Alternative Living Theatre)in Khardaha,
Gathering around him a group of Kolkata, gathering around him a group disenchanted and unemployed local
LIVING
ALTER
the
for
location
the
as
Khardaha
chose
He
families.
middle—class
lower
improvised
from
youth
THEATRE urban drama and threats to its integrity posed by the commercialism and economic pressures ofthe city.
And he recruited actors form among the under privileged class to create a thatre shaped by their own struggles
and sufferingIhe Alternative Living Theatre struggles and suffering almost exclusively in the small towns and

villages of West Bengal and neighboring states and abroad. it his consistently attacked communal ism, obscuration
and political apathy, while attempting to build up new ideals and sow the seeds of change in human minds.
The Alternative Living Theatre rejects the ” problem Theatre" of U rba n intellectuals in favor of a theatre of
living feelings. Which focuses less on the issues them on the experience of hunger,unemployment and social
inequality, and which portrays the pain, humiliation, disillusionment and alienationofthe downtrodden.
Drama which intellectualizes oppression and exploitation rnarkes that reality 'safe' for the audience instead of
compelling them to confront it. The Alternative Living Theatre also rejects alternatives theatre movement which

lay claim to grievance because they dramatize social realities in the streets. It is not enough to show the death of a

man no stage, and earn applause;

असतं area waver-mm 2

®

[गु {:1 हुनु] [:3 a

