४३३

rl

T 1' "

ribute to a stalwart
As The Qadir .\li liaig 'l‘heatre Festival celebrates its llllh anniversary.
h‘lolmmmed के \l i Bale: who spearheads the fest. shares zibi )ul 1 he

beginnings
of theatre revival in Hyderabad, his future plans. and more
सैं

' 1:114.711: ३
' iTanushree

A line debut
’ooi‘ Bdig unIIRashmi$th in "replay 'Spaces’

Excerpts:

ofthe The Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation,
I feel its mandate for me to revive theatre in
Hyder’abad - 'meaningful theatre with popular
appeal'. Baba’s theatre, like his persona, was
larger-than-life; he was involved in epic-scale
productions at real forts and palaces way back
in 1970. What I do for theatre is as a tribute to
my father, Qadir Ali Baig, and I do it with sanc—
tity in mind. When we started the festival, it
was for five days and now we are celebrating
it for 10 days with 200 artistes.

What is Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival?

What were the major challenges when you
started the festival?

.. . . ,

.

MWUAFFFR . . , .

, .

r

‘ he Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation
"क्त
is now globally credited for its theatre
M
revival model in Hyderabad. Mo—
=‘ hammed Ali Baig and his home productions
have been feted at high-brow international
festivals and prestigious theatre venues in In—

dia and abroad.

It is like an annual get-together for the
‘ country’s theatre personalities, actors, writers
‘ and craftsmen. They get a chalice to spend

, time together to watch each other perform
and to revive theatre. Hyderabad was never
। on the theatre map, but we are today because
‘ ‘ of QadirAli Baig Theatre Festival.

When we started, we used to approach peo—
ple (artistes). But now they approach us. And
the biggest challenge in the beginning was the
venue and sponsors, because this was a new
concept in the city.

Earlier you were an ad-ﬁlrnmaker and docu—
mentaryproducer. How did the transition to

टू Whendid you think of starting the festival?
‘,

Born into atheatre family and being a part

theatrehappened?
I am an ad and corporate filmmaker but

what I do for theatre is as a tribute to my father. Theatre is stifling to me because of the
high benchmarks that have been set by him
and I am an illiterate in the world of theatre.
A son '5 tribute to his father led to a nationwide
festival by bringing the world's best theatre to
the city and taking the city's theatre heritage
and culture to the world.

When did you realise that your father was a
great theatre personality?
It was at his 20th anniversary. That was a
turning point for me. At the commemoration
function of Baba in Hyderabad, 1 saw Hubbib
Tanvecr sahab, writers, directors and actors
paying tribute to him with moist eyes and
choked voices, as if they were talking about
someone they had lost, not 20 years ago. but
the previous day. Once in Bengaluru I got a
call from an Urdu writer for his script 'Reshani
ki Dor' and he said it was टा classic play.
Through them I discovered Buba's personality
and started working for theatre.
What were the high points during the ten
years of the festival?
The high point is for a son to discover his
father through theatre. with each show. Whenever I perform. I feel like I am around him.
When you get the standing ovations, you feel
thatyou are receiving :1 true gift as a spectrum
artist.

I a.
३
F.9d.
1. .3
. बीत...
.. ..Ln.
A sIII/from [he inaugural play ‘llmnari/ldliuri Kuhuni'al the 101}:

What are your future plans?
We have runny festival invites in line like.
"l‘he Baig ltetrospective' in London where
‘Quli: Dilon kzi Shuhzuuda' will have its :Slli
performance in London. We also huve one in
Delhi’s lndiu lizlblltll Center and Mumlxii‘s
NCPA festival. among others.

l lancer 'l‘unushree. a disciple
( il' l lhziral unzilyum guru
l lcmumzilini .\rni expressed
hersell' 1८ i pure rhythm

VI‘anushree, a young disciple of senior and
renowned Bharatanatyarn guru Hernamalini Ami gave a brilliant Arangetram at Satya
Sai Nigamagamam on Sunday.
She is a student from ajunior college in the
city. and an aspiring engineer who is also
learning Carnatic music. The orchestra ﬁrst
rendered a prayer in Hamsadhwani. "V'atapi
Ganapati" invoking the remover of obstacles.
Alarippu in-Tisram was a fine performance
and the dancer expressed herself to pure
rhythm.
The central Varniun was in Rngarnalika. the
composition "Pachai Mamalai" is by Tondaru»
podiszur. This outpouringofthe Vaishnmite
saint beautifully describes his yearning to
glimpse lord Ranganatha, for whom he has
surrendered all his earthly possessions. The
artiste in her Abhininai conveyed the emotions
of the devotee delicately. l ’eelakantlia Dasa's
song "Anunda Nutnrnuduvur Thillai" in Rupnknm is a praise of lord intiiraju's dance in
L‘hidumburam highlighting his consumption
of the poison. which threatened to consume
creation. thus saving the world. "Bhuvzrvam i
Liopdlubnlum ’ in Yrimun Kulyuni is by Annamiich ya. :i charming composition on Baby
tiopula. The recital concluded with Ll brisk
'l‘hillanu in Khamus. Dr K Vishwunath and
'l‘unikellu lihurani were the Chief guests for
the occasion. The orchestra with Sangectn
l\'.il;i. ltenuk‘a l’rusud, Ravi Kirzm, Sui Kumnr
and Sridharuchuri gave excellent support.

