In most later religion, such as, Christianity,
islarn, budhisrn, Sikhism, etc. god’s message is
passed on to the people through a medium; a
prophet. Brahmins cleverly pushed themselves
into a position of being a medium between vedamantra and the people and have usurped the place
of a prophet. How does this happen? Let’s examine.

theme for Agni aur Barkha is in fact mis-use of
mantra. In the sense that mantra can be misused,

mantra is the villain in the play.

Moral tale for the meandering

humanity had not even shaped completely. These

Agni aur Barkha is based on two little tales
that appear in the Aranya Parva of Mahabharata.
It is interesting to note the way these two tales

creatures did not have a tongue.

are placed in Mahabharata. The tale is placed in

Veda is the utterance of an entire bewildered
community. It was uttered at a time when
Their

the woods, as a moral reminder to a meandering
Pandavas. But this simple, harmless moral reminder

becomes a devastating critic of the brahrninical
super power in Agni aur Barkha in the hands of
Girish Karnad. He skillfully joins the two tales,
namely that of Bharadwaja rishi and his egotistical
son Yavakrita, and Raibhya rishi and his two sons

Paravasu and Aravavasu, into one and weaves his
play. He does it by making Bharadwaja into
Raibhaya’s younger brother. The other change
that Girish introduces into the original tale is a
draught. It is curious to note the way these two
addditions operate in Girish’s play. It lets the
playwright sharpfocus onto the two vulnerable points
of vedic tradition, namely a woman and a shoodra.

Girish makes both the woman and the shoodra as
points of mis-use.
,~

\

\

M Mi n s it Jim «1w '

bewilderment with life became their tongue; their
sound; their Shabda. This Shabda when it got
harmonised with other shabdas i.e. when it got
shruti, it became the first word: the Smriti.

It is extraordinary that veda should be called

a memory. In that sense veda is the memory of
an entire community. Hence veda is a communal
memory of bewilderment. Brahmins privileged
this memory. They made veda into a mantra.

Women were excluded from veda. Shoodra
was excluded from veda. And by freezing the
original memory thus, into a mantra, all later
memories and history was excluded from spiritual
sancity. History was excluded. Girish Karnad’s

है पिल्लध्याध्या AAA/aw

