Perpetuation of the abuse
In Agni aur Barkha a woman is not just abused

but is also the willing vehicle for abuse. Vishaka’s
cha'stitiy, symbolised in a pitcher full of water,
gets spilled and later gets used as sanctifying
medium for a killing. Vishakha’s chastity gets
abused in order that it becomes power. And power
perpetuates.

The other perpetuation in the play happens
at a social level. It happens on the Shoodra.

Agni aur Barkha is about a ritual, about Yagna.
In the words of the proud professional Paravasu,
Yagna is ”a formal rite. Structured. It involves
no emotional acrobatics”. Paravasu reflects a
contemporary attitutde that gets admirably defined
by Noam Chomsky in a much later age as the new
mandarin. Noam Chomsky was looking with
bewilderment, during the Vietnam war at the
efficient American technocract, who could produce
a good bomb when called forth to produce a bomb.
He was horrified at the easy, a-moral efficiency

Andhaka, the low caste gatekeeper, is spiritually
perpetrated. He refuses perpetration in a curious

way. Andhaka kills his own ideal Yavakri blindly.
Andhaka the blind is blind in his conviction. Bhakti
Movement that appears on the Indian spiritual
scene centuries later, as a devastating attack on

brahminical hierarchy, takes its shapes in Agni
aur Barkha blindly but faithfully. I must
acknowledge here the possible influence of Lnnkrsll,
another Kannada writer, on Girish. Lankesh created

a shoodra character Ujja in his play Sankranti,
who could be considered a forerunner to Andhaka.

of the new mandarin. Girish takes a similar look
at this old mandarin. If Socialism is a moral
crap for the new mandarin, truthfulness is a moral

crap for the old.
Use as mis-use

It is interesting to note that Paravasu represents
the use of brahminical super-power. And Yavakri
the mis—use of the same power. But what is
extraordinary in this play is that use is as dangerous
as mis—use. Yavakri, the misuser is a doubtful

Hamlet in the play. He cannot make up his mind.
Even though at a later stage in the play he gloats
over his sexual experience and tells Vishakha,

the abused, that he would have raped her if she
had not willingly obliged.
Yavakri is a sexual novice. In the play it is
l act;
Vishaka who leads Yavakri into the sexua

all his
like a goat lead to the sacrificial altar. In
breast
life Yavakri has only smelt a half formed

ripe
in the midst of "sickeningly sweet smell of
god
the
with
ion
jack fruit". Even his confrontat

