I think Girish Karnad has understood this
extraordinary strength of theatre. For he uses a
play within a play to resolve the dilemma of his
play. I am not suggesting any great genius in the
choice of such a technique. Many have used it
before. Shakespeare uses it. Bhavabhuti uses it.

In fact Girish’s use of the technique strongly reminds
us of Bhavabhuti’s Uttara Rama Charitarn. I only
suggest here that Girish employs this technique,
almost as successfully as his predecessors do.
In Angi aur Barkha, the enormous structure

of a ritual, called Yagna is cracked using a weightless
weapon called theatre. This act of demolition
releases the life force from within the structure
and it rains. Probably for the first time in post
modernist Indian literature, a miracle happens in
a modern play.

m UH ८८; ८८: :- H है a); a,

is a doubtful event—if not for the world, but certainly
for Yavakri.
A weightless weapon called theatre
I believe in Vachana. My own words on stage
and off it, have not always been as truthful as
Vachana ought to be. But the practice of Theatre
I hope, should save me from deceit.

Postponed modernism called Indio

I say this

because, I am fascinated by this marriage between

drama and theatre. Drama picks up utterances
from life and scripts it. Theatre unscripts utterances
and releases meaning. This amazing process called
theatre is hence a process of cracking a shell to
get at the seed called meaning. In that sense good
drama is probably more powerful than poetry.
Poetry cracts the mere shell of grarnrner, whereas
theatre cracks the shell of word itself.

The post modernist in the play is in the shape
of a romantic love-tale. Aravasu, Nittilai and the
motif of tragic love is interwoven into the fabric
of brahrninical power game, as a design, exactly
like it happens on the border of an endless eighteen
yard Indian saree. The love story is a stereotype.
It is like popular Indian cinema. It has lotus like
purity. It does not get consumatecl till the end.
And it remains pure inspite of the polluting villains
touch.

