The King then orders?
Bring scented and costly oil from foreign lands.
Change every day the water of the pond where she bathes.
Build a sky-high palace to provide her with pure air.
Call for the physicians of the country for the treatment of her
hair.

As his orders are carried out, the king is deeply hurt to find
corruption and rnalpractices prevailing in the country. After much
deliberation it is decided to observe this year as a ’cultural year’ as
nothing but culture can make men free and pure-hearted. A
national anthem is composed and sung in public places to make the
citizens aware of the cultural year. This is sung by the king and his
ministers as well.
Towards the end of the play the youth appears on the stage, and is
arrested by the king’s men as he refuses to sing the anthem, because

he finds the king selfish and tyrannical and indifferent to the interests
of his subjects and their welfare. This is the climax of the drama and
' a turning point, with the characters realizing that it is the immorality
of the king and his ministers that lies behind the princess’s hair
turning grey. Hence they resolve to go from now on along the path

of fairness and justice.
Production Note
The Ojapali, a traditional Assamese form, allows players to move at
ease from singing and dancing to playing dramatic roles, with
humour serving for a bridge between performers and viewers. The
form, popular in the lower Assam, has always tried to awaken
people’s awareness of the reality. Ojapali was adopted as an
ingredient of the present production in the hope that it would take
the - experience deeper into the minds of the spectators, and add
something to the conventions of the proscenium theatre.
The Director
Ramani Burman, born in 1956 in 'the village Pipalibari, District
Nalbari, Assam, holds a Master’s Degree from Cuwahati University;
has assisted Dulal Roy, the eminent Assamese director, in several
productions; and worked with the Directorate of Cultural Affairs,
Assam. He directed Chang for the 1986 East Zone Theatre Festival,
sponsored by the Sangeet Natak Akaderni, at Guwahati.

