Shishupala and Krishna, to the royal couple. As the King and the
Queen seem to favour Krishna, the prince intervenes and supports
Shishupala, insisting that Krishna should not be invited to the
swayamvara at all. Narada appears on the scene and a plan is
worked out.
Meanwhile as Rukminiya, Gonar’s daughter, tries to sing a song
sequence from the Salhesha, another popular folk theatre of Mithila,
a sipahi of the zarnindar drags her goat away. In their helplessness
the villagers recall other similar acts of persecution and humiliation, I

and as anger grows, the people get organized, and preparations are
afoot for a direct confrontation with the zarnindar and the Neelha
Sa h i b .

The Neelha Sahib’s sipahi comes to the Village to abduct Rukrniniya
to the Sahib’s kothi. The villagers drive him back, and send
information to her father, who stops the performance midway, and
rushes back to the village, with the other kirtaniyas, to confront the
drunk Neelha Sahib, who will not take his insult lying down.

Production Note

_

The production brings together two well-known plays, the Rukminee Harana written in Mithila’s kirtaniya form by Umapati in the
mid-eighteenth century, and a contemporary play by Govind Jha set
against the indigo troubles in British-ruled Mithila. A combination of
the traditional kirtaniya and modern Maithili theatre forms. is the
basic style of the play, which also uses devices from several other
forms like the Vidapat, the Ankiya, the Leela, the Kattik Naach, the
Salhesha Naach. Tunes and costumes and properties and dance
movements have been drawn from the soil of Mithila and the
adjoining region of Nepal to convey the feel of the environment.

The Director
Kunal, born 1951, is a B.Sc. and CWA (lnter.). He is a poet, and has
edited several literary magazines and anthologies ' of poems. He
began his theatre career in Calcutta in 1 975. as actor, designer and

manager. He has directed more than a dozen plays, and is engaged
in research in traditional theatre and theatre-like forms in Mithila
and Nepal.

