GHAUB AUDITURIUM+A Tribute To The Immortal Poet
Ghalib Auditorium, being inaugurated today by our illustrious Prime Minister is the culminating
point of the efforts of the All India Ghalib Centenary Celebration Committee to erect a beﬁtting

memorial, honouring a poet, who made a lasting contribution to the nation’s cultural heritage.
The foundation stone of the ﬁrst phase of the project, “AIWAN-E-Gl-IALIB” was laid by Late
Dr. Zakir Hussain, President of India on February 14, 1968.

The opening ceremony of “Aiwan-e-Ghalib” was performed by Srnt. Indira Gandhi, the Prime
Minister of India and Chairman, Ghalib Centenary Committee on February 22, 1970 and on the
same day she laid the foundation stone of Ghalib Auditorium.

It is a matter of pride and pleasure that its inauguration ceremony also is being performed by her.
Ghalib Auditorium has been designed to give a new dimension to the cultural life in the capital,
handicapped as it has been by dearth of suitable halls for the performing arts.

Constructed at a cost of Rs. 20 lacs, Ghalib Auditorium is a centrally air-conditioned theatre in a
compact form, incorporating modern trends in theatre. The design takes full advantage of circular
form and structural pattern. The stage penetrates into the auditorium to impart to the audience a
feeling of participation. That feeling is further heightened by giving continuous steps upto stage

level instead of conventional vertical drop and side steps. The main foyer canteen and utilities
are provided behind the rear seats of the hall. On the two ﬂanks of the stage, two circular foyers
with utilities are provided to serve the VIP’s and front rows.

The stage has a proscenium 12.192 m. A ﬂy-tower 16.45 rntrs. high is provided over the stage with
necessary intermediate platforms cats, walks etc. This will facilitate the stage and screen lights etc.
to slide upward by mechanical means for quick change-over. Two fully equipped green rooms
have been provided on the rear ﬂanks of the stage with pretty good size back stage between them
with a separate back entrance.
The external and internal treatment is achieved by the amalgamation of the characteristics of mo-

dern materials and the style of oriental architecture.

The hall carries an unusual R.C. roof in the

form of a segment of a dome.
Centrally located between old and New Delhi, Ghalib Auditorium is a beﬁtting tribute to th
e memory of poet, who was in his life and work, an important link between new an
d old India. This

locational advantage apart, other notable constructional features will certainly contribute to the

enrichment of the cultural life in the capital.
S.

Soharwardy

