Brecht at Work in the Theatre

g
ijhe only time he would take oﬁ” his grey cloth cap durin
rehearsals was to greet some visitor he didn’t know. It did
service as anti-dazzle shield and entrenchment. Behind its
hutter
pulled-down peak he produced those camera-focal-plane-s
looks of his. The dark-grey open-necked shirt under the grey

tunic jacket allowed free play to his neck muscles; their jumping
could mean many things. Things you couldn’t always see in his
face, you could see there; the build-up to demonstrating how
something should be acted on the stage, an unspoken rejection,

the preparations for a row in the house, etcetera.
The spacious rehearsal stage in the Reinhardt Strasse, with its
good accoustics, was his pride and joy. “You won’t ﬁnd its like
in Europe”. The rehearsal stage often served as storage room for
stage props. Not a place to ﬁre the imagination. Bring your own
imagination. He began rehearsals with a trick. The type—script of
the play lay beside him in a sharp—folder. He would tap the
cover with his knuckles. “Right! We’ll forget what’s in there!” A
hard trick to perform if you’ve written the play yourself. He was
a master of it. Until the groupings and stage-walks had

been ﬁxed the written play in the folder was treated like a
theoretical guide for the performance that ﬁrst had to be made,
and was consulted as sparingly as possible; one was dealing with
the realities of the stage now.

“What was that you said, Helli‘?” Helene Weigel would repeat
it, and he listened as if he had never had anything to do with
the sentence before.
“Remarkable!” This could mean: the sentence really did strike

him as new because of the linguistic alienation, or, he was
amazed that when writing it he hadn’t taken into account the

situation, position, or attitude the sentence would have to be
spoken in. In the second case a change would be made in the
written play. Theory was brought into line with stage practice.
“Every principle is fatal,” or “Realism is not how actual things
are but how things actually are.” These are some of the rules-0f-

thumb that he would come out with by the hundred during
rehearsals.
Whenever the possibility offered itself he always sought to

