support or supplement the social statement of text through the
attitudes and groupings. During rehearsals for The Caucasian

Chalk Circle he demonstrated the social statement expressed in
the eating of the cheese: The poor man “envelopes” the cheese
with both arms while he’s eating it. Nobody who always had
enough cheese would eat it like that. The poor man knows from

experience that the cheese can be taken away from him at any
time. In Mother Courage Helene Weigel tested the coins with

her teeth. Nobody who didn’t have to count their pennies would
ever test money like that.
During rehearsals for The Trial of Joan ofArc by Anna Seghers
there were two actors who couldn’t ﬁnd the right attitudes f'or

scholastic priests. Working of the neck muscles—then Brecht
shouted up to the stage: “How many angels dance on the point
of a needle? That was the kind of problem which occupied these

gentlemen.” After that the actors very soon found the proper
attitudes.

Once an actress couldn’t ﬁnd the expression with which to
receive a sum of money that she hadn’t expected to be paid.
“Think!” Brecht called to her, “Lucre breeds lust!” An actor
who had to act thinking he encouraged thus: “It’s a state of

national emergency that Germans always get sad when they
think. It’s time a stop was put to it!”

With short steps, more tripping than walking, he would hurry
onto the stage in order to show how something should be acted
or to make something clear. It was as if he carried a gesture or
the nuance of a word onto the stage and delivered it up there
like the postman delivering an important letter. On the way back
from the stage to the director’s desk he would check up several
times on the word, the sentence or the gesture he had just

handed over as if to get it ﬁxed in his mind.
He would let the actors ‘offer something’ as we say in the
theatre: an attitude, a gesture, a word, a sentence. He would

encourage them to variations if what was offered didn’t ﬁt into
his scheme; should nothing suitable be offered he would resort
to ‘suggestion’ and give the actor the feeling that the latter had

