actually found what in fact Brecht had ‘brought home’ to him
and demanded of him. This process was fascinating.
He would give a hearty, crowing laugh at funny attitudes and
gestures produced by the actors—and at comical bits in the text
(written by himself). This he would do with as much
spontaneous gusto at the ﬁftieth reheasal as he had done at the
ﬁrst. Every actor who had something funny to say or do could
bank on his Brecht-laugh. An easing of tension, a ray of

sunlight, a touch of encouragement during exhausting rehearsals.
The visitor, was allowed to have his say in the break—and might
even have a question put to him. Intelligent comments,
especially those from ‘practitioners of life’ were discussed—and
taken into account; stupid remarks ignored with irritated
workings of the neck muscles.

A rehearsaLsitter once complained in the break that he hadn’t
been able to understand what was being said on the stage from
the front row. Brecht dismissed it with a wave of the hand: “Up

front, the clear seats, ja, we don’t bother about them at all!”
On occasion he would work jokes into a production that only
he and a couple of people around the director’s desk knew

about. He laughed time and again over one robustly sensual
posture he had worked out for a sitting actress in a play about

peasant life. In the end the actress caught on too, and laid it on
even more. When the ﬁrst-night reviewers came a regular
cropper over this ‘unmotivated’ posture there was a faun-like

glint behind his glasses, “A man can have his private joke,
can’t he!”
Great attitudes, comic situations from classical plays, especially

Shakespeare, he always had at hand for comparison. “Let’s have
a look at how Wilhelm did it!”
He often seemed to me to have paintings in mind when working
on a decor or a grouping: Rembrandt, the painters of the

Renaissance, etc. Once the two of us compared a scene which he
had recently set up with the original of Van Gogh’s Potato
Eaters in Holland. In another production I know he had the
brown tones of ageing photographs in his mind’s eye for the
decor for some time before the rehearsals.

